ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u1	Good morning, gentlemen. Let us resume the session with point 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the repercussions for Galicia of the strict deficit control policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u2	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u3	Mr. President. News: "Basco Country, Galicia, Canary Islands, deficit control champions." I ask you, what price? Do we have the level of public services and employment in the Basque Country? The strict control of the deficit that they can do there because they have overfinancing, do we do this here just for your personal promotion? Or is there anyone else who benefits? With you, the deficit control looks like the trile game, a game that the Academy in the dictionary calls the scam. You play the role of bait and montoro the role of trilero, but they're clumsy to deceive people. In the municipalities they made a legal corse so strict that they can't execute. They have to restrict social services even when they have surpluses. That's what they call saving force. Self-government communities are proposing goals that are impossible to meet, as all experts in this country explain and denounce, by mere electoralism, so they have to choose between wild cuts in public services or greater deficits. But the People's Party, and you too, are paralyzing the reform of the system of self-financing, which would provide sufficient resources. They meet the deficit here, and they have an obligation in all Spanish communities and in Social Security, where they are liquidating the reserve fund, and they do not want to address alternative measures within the Toledo Pact. There is a galloping deficit, caused by wage devaluation and flat rate, as we discussed yesterday in the Courts. Are they aware of the very serious risk that threatens pensions, to continue like this? We're mistaken for the state deficit. Despite the rise in income, the fall in types and the lower unemployment expenditure, as there were elections, you made tax reductions in the IRPF. Pura propaganda! Because, far from the rigor of what you're talking about, Rajoy's government uses fiscal reform as a further electoral argument, absolutely lax. And as a crane of fraud, after all you've talked about the electrical deficit, and after a reform that liquidated the Greek wind sector, it turns out that last year the electricity deficit in Spain has grown to 800 million euros. Mr President, in view of this data on deficit control, can you tell us how we benefit from acting like the Basque Country? Are we in the process of converging with the Basque Country in terms of employment, in terms of public services, in terms of well-being or even in terms of equality? Or, on the contrary, are we just on the opposite path of growth?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I thank you very much for the question and much more for the motivation of it. Your Honor, you have just made quite a criticism of why the Government of Spain has not been able to meet the public deficit, and now I am criticising myself for fulfilling the public deficit. You just made a critique of why we owe ourselves more, and yet sometimes you criticize me because we increased public debt. Mr. Méndez Romeo, as you will understand, you are in a situation of a certain deficit of arguments. [[Laughter]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, what do you propose?, that we increase public debt? Are you proposing that by increasing public debt we pay more interest? Is it therefore proposing that, by increasing the debts of the Greeks and paying more interest to the financial institutions, we invest less in health care, education, social services and productive investment? Mr Méndez Romeo, indeed, we have fulfilled the public deficit. We met in 2015 the target of the public deficit. Furthermore, Galicia was the autonomous community that most reduced its deficit in 2015 compared to 2014. Galicia, since 2010, is the second autonomous community that best controls the public deficit. And Galicia has also reduced the public deficit since 2013. You see, Your Honor, how proud I am that the Greeks arrive at the end of the month, and I am proud not to leave a puppet to the Greeks when I finish the legislation [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, we not only manage to meet the deficit, but we control debt. When you ruled, Galicia's public debt was above the average of Spain, now it's almost six points below the average of the public debt of the rest of the autonomous communities. But besides, Your Honor, we met the deficit by increasing investment. We are the Autonomous Community that invested most in proportion to its budget in 2015, and we are the Autonomous Community that invested most per capita – more than Euskadi – in 2015. The average, Your Honor, of the Autonomous Community of Galicia is twice what the rest of the autonomous communities are looking for. [[Applause]] Besides, Your Honor, fulfilling the public deficit is nothing more and nothing less than saving 85 million euros in interest every year. If we, instead of meeting the deficit, had made the average deficit in the autonomous communities, today Galicia would have more than 3,000 million debt, which would mean 85 million euros more interest per year, which would mean 85 million less for health, education and public services. Mr. Méndez Romeo, not only did we meet the deficit, but we invested more, but we did more public services, and in addition, Your Honor, we lowered the taxes of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u7	Mr. Méndez Romeo, you in the matter of deficit and debt, do you have any criteria? Of course, on the question yes. Will the replica maintain the same criterion or, on the other hand, change the criteria? Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you have the floor. Replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u9	Did you understand, Mr Feijóo, your economic policy was to triple debt and divide by three investment? I'm not talking to him about unemployment today, because at the end of the day... You, Mr. President, are triellers. Move the tokens to deceive the viewers, but hide the reality. Brussels has just announced that next year it will have to cut 25,000 million euros that we will all pay, also the Greeks. Can you tell the camera that additional cut will touch us here? Our greatest effort in relation to other communities – because this is the substance of the matter, Mr Feijóo – does it produce benefits in Galicia? Because we actually grow less than the communities that fail to meet the deficit, which are also funded at zero cost by Mr Montoro's Liquidity Fund. With the current model – note it – the profit communities are benefiting from spending but with fewer cuts in public services. His contempt for people's well-being led him to give up 80 million euros in the previous year. And 80 million are not Calderillas, Mr. Feijóo, are enough to start rescue from Vigo's privatized hospital, are enough to hire 2,000 doctors who are needed in Galicia and are enough to drastically reduce the list of dependents. So here you're not running exclusively for your personal promotion, and the Greeks suffer more cuts and less benefits than in other communities. With you we grow less than most communities and deviate more from the Spanish trend, unemployment is chronic, irritable wages, precarious recruitment and the future of pensions is dark. Social expenditure falls, educational expenditure falls, privatize hospitals. They removed, Mr. Feijóo, don't forget! 500 doctors and removed 1,500 teachers. That's the real deficit data! And where are the benefits? Are they part of the wave of cuts and privatizations that prepare themselves to win again?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u10	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u11	Mr. Méndez Romeo, I knew you would immediately correct. Start the replica by saying how we pretend to triple the public debt. But, Mr. Méndez Romeo, don't you know that failing to meet the deficit is increasing public debt? That's why, as we don't want to increase public debt, we meet the deficit, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Is it true that this can be understood even from the ranks of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party? Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, cut down the communities of the PSOE, in Galicia, zero cuts in 2016. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we have met the public deficit and here there are no cuts, and in the autonomous communities of the Socialist Party there are cuts throughout 2016. [[Applause]] That's the problem they have. Look, Your Honor, you say you haven't grown the economy, and it turns out that the economy is going to grow by 3.2%. You say it doesn't lower unemployment, and it turns out that unemployment is lower than in the middle of Spain, we have less unemployment than in 2010 and we have more social security affiliations than when the legislation began. Mr. Méndez Romeo, for a note! Look, it says we waste I don't know how many millions in 2015. No, in 2015 we managed not to have to pay the debts that you left, at the rate of 85 million euros, that were the liquidations of the Socialist Party and that we don't need to pay to meet the public deficit. [[Applause]] Your Honor, and this year, as we have accomplished the public deficit, we will have 400 million euros of the 2014 liquidations that the socialist communities will not have, so they are angry with the Government of Spain. That's why, Your Honor, cuts in Galicia, zero. There are 400 million euros more in 2016, and 85 million euros more in 2015. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, these are the data, and that, Your Honor, which will allow us, for example, to approve tomorrow, at the Board of Trustees, an investment of 120 million euros in health care. It's 120 million euros to do more schools, to improve schools, to improve primary education centers, to improve vocational training. That's why we met the deficit, Your Honor. For what? To invest more than in the socialist communities and to invest more than on the average of all the autonomous communities of Spain, Your Honor, we meet the deficit because we do not want to leave a pouf to the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, you are beginning to be prepared to be the next leader of the Socialist Party, and I tell you cordially, you know the affection I profess to you, but what you should not be insisting on this way. [[Laughter]] It seems they're made of factory; that is to say one thing and say the opposite. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you should agree, at least, to criticize always the same, because by criticizing one thing and the contrary I don't say that it doesn't climb escalators within the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but within the credibility of Galicia, Mr. Méndez Romeo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u13	Be careful, be careful, because this maximum of demagogy really doesn't go with you. Allah, in any case, if the new leaders of the Socialist Party in Galicia are asking him. But I don't think they should ask him to commit suicide intellectually. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, Mr. Méndez Romeo, I tell you one thing. Your Honor, with you the public deficit was not met, with us, yes. With you the public debt rose, with us, the autonomous community that goes up the least. With you the taxes went up, with us the taxes went down. With you the economy was lower, with us the economy is increased. [[Murmurs.]] With you the unemployment sank, and with us there began to be jobs. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I tell you without accuracy... Mr. Méndez Romeo, if you have criticized me for fulfilling my duties as president of the Greeks... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u15	...I'm very happy to give an answer to the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Mixed, on short, medium and long-term measures adopted by the Government of Greece to achieve wage confluence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u17	You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u18	Good morning, President. I'll talk to you today about... please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll talk to you about wages. According to INE, in 2015 the average Greek wage was 1,775.83 euros gross per month, with the payments prorated, compared to the 2,026.14 of the state average. Even so, 61 percent of the wage earners in Greece do not reach the average wage. Despite the state wage gap, the Greek wages increased by 0.4% in 2015, while the state as a whole was 1.7%. Four times more than Galicia. The slight increase in wages was offset by the fall of other labour costs, so the total cost per worker dropped by 0.3% in Galicia, while it grew by 1.2% in the state. And so, Galicia has kept herself as a fourth community with the lowest wages. The highest Greek wages correspond to the industry, 35% more than the service sector, €2,247 compared to €1,658; but 31% of the Greek employees had wages below €6,800 per year. For youth entering the labour market, wages are less than EUR 15,000 per year. In this age group, temporality rates are above 60%, regardless of the level of preparation. The only growing group of workers in Galicia is those who earn less than half of the minimum inter-professional wage, representing 18.4% of the employees in Greece, compared to 14.5% in 2009. Even worse, the Galicians have it, with an average salary of 22% below that of men. According to the Tax Agency, the Galicians received an average salary of 15,414 euros gross per year, compared to the 19.746 men. Among workers aged 26 to 35, the wage difference is 16%, since they charge 12,419 euros per year for 14,791 of them. I mean, we're talking about that age line, 26 to 35, where people decide to have children. It's hard to propose to have children with a salary of 12,419 euros. In the service sector, 9 out of every 10 Welsh workers, and 63% of those who have part-time contracts accepted them because they don't get a full-time job. The female employment rate submerged around 20%. This situation of women's wage discrimination leads to women who are always taking part in conciliation measures, such as the reduction in the day-to-day care of children or dependents. But this discrimination is not reduced to working life, with February data, in Galicia the gap in retirement pensions between men and women exceeds 38%: they charge an average of 1,024 euros, they 634.3; they have increased them, since 2008, 237 euros a month, to them 131. So I ask you: what are the short, medium and long-term measures that will take the Government of Greece for Galicia's wage confluence with the state and the wage confluence between men and women? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, yesterday even the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor appeared in the Chamber to explain an industrial project in Lugo province. It is a project to develop a technology pole in the field of aeronautical industry, and an example – in our opinion – of a technology sector, an innovative sector, a competitive and high value added sector. It's a sector, no doubt, where wages are higher than the average of the rest of the sectors, so yesterday we were surprised, once again, that your group had opposed this project of manufacture and design of unmanned aircraft in Galicia. You will understand, Your Honor, that by opposing the industrial projects in Galicia, especially those of the highest added value projects, it is very difficult to raise the average wage incomes and it is very difficult to overcome the problem of the wage divide that exists in Spain and Galicia between men and women. Now, taking the data you seem to be that you want to refer to a year, and what seems reasonable is that we refer to a period of time, for example, since I am President of the Board, if you want to take that data – which is certain of course – from the National Institute of Statistics, from the year 2008 to the year 2014 the salary in Galicia increased by 5.9%, and the salary in Spain grew by 4.5%. That is, wages in Galicia, between 2008 and 2014, rose 1,101 euros, and in Spain the average was 967. It means, therefore, that the average annual wages increased in Galicia more than in the rest of Spain, being of course aware that in Galicia the average annual wages remain below the average of Spain. Your Honor, in Madrid, 7.4%; in Castile-A Mancha, 8.2%; in Basque Country, 6.2%; in Murcia, 7.5% and Galicia, 5.9%. And the rest of the autonomous communities went up all the less than the ones I just mentioned. If you want to talk – and, of course, that's a matter about which it's worth a thought – about women's and men's salaries, actually – as you diagnosed – the fundamental problem with wages and wage gaps between women and men is that women have more part-time contracts than men, and consequently their wages, given that they work less hours in a company, not that they work less hours in the total of the day, are lower. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is, indeed, the reconciliation of working and family life and there are the bets of conciliation. For example, to see if we are able – for now we are going to try and are in a good position to achieve it – to increase nothing more and nothing less than 100 percent of the squares of children's schools in Galicia. But despite everything – returning again to the National Institute of Statistics – if you catch up in 2013, we are the third autonomous community that is better at the pay gap between women and men. In the Canary Islands, women are 14.7% below; in Balearic Islands, 15.8%; in Madrid, 21.4% and Galicia, 23.3%. I mean, we're the fourth autonomous community with the lowest pay gap between women and men. Which, if you ask me my opinion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u22	...then it's not to breast-feed, but what it is to bring this data to collation and make a collective reflection of the problem of the salary divide not in Galicia, but in Spain. So, Your Honor, we are trying to get social agents – which you know are the ones who set wages, businesses and trade union organizations – to sign an interprofessional framework agreement in the autonomic field to cut the wage gap between women and men.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u24	Your Honor, what we're trying to do is solve, from the strict constitutional, statutory and labor responsibilities that a government has, and draw attention – as you do today – to the wage gap between women and men. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u26	Thank you, President. It really disappoints his frivolity when he talks about something as serious as the Greek wages don't give to live the families. You tell me about Rozas. And what's the matter, if they're gonna hire only men and women will be hired for cleaning? That's the problem, that women are denied access to qualified jobs. They're much less, though they have more training. That's one of the problems, 61% of women work in the service sector, i.e. in the worst paid sector, with fewer wages and less rights. That's the problem, and I ask you, what are you going to do to change that reality? He says there will be a meeting with trade union and business organizations to reach an agreement, something that the People's Party has voted against three times in initiatives by this parliamentarian asking for such intermediation between employers and trade unions. But you also tell me that the problem with women is that we have most part-time contracts. And the government has nothing to do with that policy? Why do we have those poor wages in Galicia? I don't care how long you take, what suits you best, the result is always the same: the Greeks and the Greeks are poorer than the rest of the state; the wage earners and the wage earners in Greece earn less than the rest of the state, I'm not going to play with those figures. I'm asking you what short, medium and long-term measures you will take to end this wage discrimination. Are you willing to encourage between the employer and the German trade unions that respond to the needs of the Germans and that equate the wages of the Welsh and the Welsh to the state average? You can't tell me we have the lowest pay gap between men and women, because we're the German women who have the lowest wages. Even though the pay gap is less than the average of the state, since the wages of men are already lower than the wages of the state, the wages of women are pathetic, and that is why we condemn ourselves to being poor elders and poor pensions, because we also have greater life expectancy. Mr. Feijó, of course, it seems outrageous to me that you answer this to the working class in Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you confuse yourself and you confuse yourself with responsibility. I do not represent the Galician employer, Your Honor, No, I am the president of all the workers and workers of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, I understand that you are used to other political regimes, where in organic democracy you talked about these kinds of issues and told the Government that you had solved the problem of wages, and the government by royal decree solved the problem of wages. But Your Honor, who comes from the union world, knows perfectly well that this is false. Therefore, don't try to deceive your fellow workers and don't try to deceive anyone. Of course, the Greeks and the Greeks won't fool them. When I said that in recent years average wages have increased more in Galicia than in Spain, I repeat, and I add: and we continue below average. When I say Galicia is the fourth autonomous community with the lowest pay gap between women and men, I repeat, and I say: and we continue below average in women's wages with respect to men. When we are calling for a framework agreement between employers and trade unions to negotiate exactly the problem of the wage gap between women and men, I repeat, and for that reason, Your Honor, we will continue to bet on Galicia's productive fabric, but it's very hard to continue to bet on Galicia's productive fabric if every time we bring a proposal you vote against. We want to make unmanned planes in Galicia, and you tell me they vote against them because they're only going to hire men. It's an insult to intelligence, Your Honor. Most of the university students in Galicia are women, and you're insulting the engineers, you're insulting the people who are preparing for college, saying they're not going to hire them just because they're women. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, of the 90,000 professionals who work at the Galician Council, about 60,000 are women and 30,000 are men. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you mean, Your Honor, that there are no doctors in the Galician Union, that there are no doctors, that there are no architects, that there are no engineers? Your Honor, a little respect for women, and don't continue to use them in this way. I honestly don't think it's worth continuing to use women in relation to the pay gap. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, not to the installation in Rozas of a competitive aeronautical sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't extend the PSA Peugeot-Citroën factory in Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u29	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u30	...to guarantee the jobs of the automobile in Vigo. Not to the Reganosa gas station for work in repairing the gas tankers in Ferrol. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not to any productive project in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u31	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u32	Your Honor, I understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u33	Mrs. Martínez, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u34	... understand, Your Honor, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u35	Silence, Mrs. Martínez, if not, I have to call her in order. This is the debate, Mrs Martínez. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u36	Look, Your Honor, if the Joint Group changes its attitude and is now in favour of Reganosa, in favor of expanding Citroën and in favour of Rozas, then the words I just pronounced from the Journal of Sessions are withdrawn. It would be good, Your Honor, if you'd made it clear. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, with all due respect, I'm worried about the pay gap between men and women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u38	...and I'm worried, of course, that Galicia is below average wages. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And as I'm worried, I'll never make a demagogy on that matter. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the Evaluation of Galician Youth Pessimism of Galician Youth in Respect of Their Future
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u40	Question by Mr. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, we know these days the results of a study conducted throughout the state that concludes that young Greeks are the most pessimistic of their future work. The young gales are... are they? [[Murmurs.]] He said the young Greeks are the ones who see the blackest future. 23% believes that their work situation in the next five years will be even worse or worse than the current situation. Maybe you're attributing it to the anthropological pessimism of the Greeks, or maybe you blame the Joint Group for opposing the drones at the Rozas aerodrome, or maybe to you the blame is also for the Bipartite. He's been presiding over the board for seven years and he's been trying to cover up his failure by looking at the previous government. But allow me to give you another explanation, Mr. Feijóo. Do you know the results of the structural survey of homes conducted by the Galego Institute of Statistics? 19.2% of our boys are at risk of poverty, almost one in five, Mr. Feijóo. More than twice as much as in 2008. And the percentage is 20.8 percent among the young people who live alone. Look, these days we also know the results of the Labour Market Report in Galicia in 2015. In our country, the only growing group of workers is the one who earns less than half the minimum wage. According to the European Social Charter, a worker with less than the minimum wage is at risk of poverty or already living in poverty, and in Galicia 61% of the new recruits are found in this situation; most young people, Mr Feijóo. In 2009, nearly half of the young employees had an indefinite contract, today 60% of the contracts are temporary. I stop, precariousness, no expectations for the future; that's the explanation, Mr. Feijóo, that, according to this study which made reference to the beginning, the young Greeks are the ones most likely to change their place of residence to try to improve their living conditions. Look, we have 100,000 young men who are less busy than in 2010, and those who have employment earn wages of misery. You these days, when you announced that you will opt for a third term, you said that you did it for Galicia, but the reality, Mr. Feijóo, is that Galicia that will leave behind in inheritance is the denial of all hope to our youth. So how do you value that young gals and young gals are the most pessimistic of their future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u42	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, you speak in your speech to a study of the pessimism of young Greeks, and you refer to a headline released in the press a few weeks ago. This study, Your Honor, is done by private entities, specifically a consultant who specializes in business simulations, a business school and a cosmetics company called Nivea. As you will understand, I appreciate that BNG also begins to check that there are sources of companies, sources of private organizations, that do studies and you consider them to be their own. But we must remind you that I believe that in order to talk about serious studies you have a number of possibilities: the Galego Institute of Statistics, the National Institute of Statistics or Eurostat. I have nothing, Your Honor, against cosmetic companies that do studies. I'm just saying it's good, Your Honor, to bring them to the House so people can know what their inspiration is. [[Applause]] In any case, Mr. Jorquera, a solid MP like you only goes to the headline, and indeed 23% of the young people believe that in the next five years their situation will be worse. But you ignore an important fact, which is that the remaining 77% of the young people say their forecast is that the next five years will be equal, better or better. Your Honor, what part of the study have you read, the 23% that says the next few years will be worse, and don't you read the 77% that says the next few years will be better? Mr. Jorquera, if you want to talk about that study, let's talk about that study too. [[Applause]] There's no problem, Mr. Jorquera, no problem. Now, as you and I like official figures – although now you also like other studies – you know that the National Institute of Statistics says there are 10 autonomous communities with more youth unemployment than in Galicia; 10 autonomous communities. I mean, there are 10 autonomous communities that have more juvenile unemployment than Galicia. And if you tell me if I'm satisfied, I'll tell you no, but of course, we're better than in 10 autonomous communities in the rest of Spain. If you, therefore, take the Institute of Statistics, I can tell you that youth unemployment has dropped in the last year by 7.5 points. And the number of unemployed under 25 years of age dropped in Galicia by 17%. And the number of young people has risen 11%. I think that's what we're interested in, Mr. Jorquera. By the way, in that study of the cosmetics company plus the consultant, it says another very interesting thing. Do you know which ones are the most pessimistic in Spain? The young Basques. And, do you know what are Spain's most optimistic? [[Murmurs.]] Young Andalusians. You'll understand that I prefer a pessimistic Welshman with work than another young man, without work, optimistic. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u45	Mr. Feijó, for once I try to do him a favor, you reproach him. Because, if I refer to a study commissioned, among others, by cosmetic companies, it is because you understand the single and exclusively cosmetic policy, Mr Feijóo. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] But look, you didn't pay much attention, because then I supported all my intervention in data from the Galego Institute of Statistics, Mr. Feijóo, and in the 2015 Labour Market Report in Galicia developed by trade union organizations. But look, I'm going to continue with data from the Galego Institute of Statistics and the National Institute of Statistics, so you're calm. It turns out that in Galicia there are 124,400 people less than 16 to 34 years old than in 2010, and having fewer boys, it turns out that occupation has gone down 7 points. In 2010, it represented 31%, now 24%. Your policies, Mr. Feijóo, are causing the future of our country to drift away from knowledge. Do you know how many high school students have emigrated in the last five years? They emigrated 12,000, Mr Feijóo, data from official institutes. Look, regardless of knowledge in a country, it's a drama. What's left of us then? A diaspora of well-prepared people. That's what an emigrant researcher says, one of the 40 researchers who were excluded by the board from the call for post-doctoral training aid, for hosting a previous government research program. See what he also says: the more training, the more difficult it is for him to use them. It's generating a reality based on unskilled labour and poor wages. Situations like this, Mr. Feijóo, are those that explain that since 2009 78,000 young people have emigrated, or that there are 30,000 homes less composed by people under 35 years of age. Maybe there's an explanation for the demographic crisis in our country. Look, and I've finished, Mr. Feijóo, these days he was convinced that you will give Galicia more stability. That will be – of course – the milkmotive of his campaign: stability. Or me, or chaos. But look, what stability does our youth have to be able to build their vital project, if it turns out that the future that you offer them with your policies is unemployment, poverty wages, or taking the suitcase and emigration? Look, Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u47	...bad that it weighs you, Galicia that will leave in inheritance is the denial of our youth of an elementary right: the right to have a worthy future on our land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u48	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u49	I do not argue with you, Mr. Jorquera, that you want me to favor by bringing this study from the cosmetic company you refer to. That's right, Your Honor, I think you should read the study, because, of course, saying that 23% of the boys are pessimistic and omitting that 70% are optimistic, it's not very appropriate, especially for a parliamentarian as solid as you. You say 12,000 young people have left Galicia last year, and it's true, Your Honor, exactly 12.364. What I'm forgetting again is that when you were ruling, more than 13,000 were leaving every year. Therefore, Your Honor, the problem of the young Greeks, as you know, is not the one who goes away, the problem is the one who is born, Your Honor, because now they are going less than they were before. Some will say, no, there's less. I'm used to that kind of reproach, too. Look, Mr. Jorquera, what I'm telling you, by taking these data from the National Institute of Statistics, is that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities with deep youth unemployment, but there are 10 communities that have more youth unemployment than we do. What I'm saying is that in recent years, youth unemployment has dropped and the rate of young men and young women in Greece has increased. I repeat that. That's why, like what matters to us, Your Honor, it's about continuing to form, because the board of directors, in fact, will continue to try to keep the talent you refer to in Galicia. And that's why we're going to get 200 contracts from young people and young people in Greece who want to continue working in Galicia in the field of innovation, development and research; 200 new contracts, Your Honor. [[Applause]] That's what we're going to do at the board of directors this April. So, Your Honor, as we are interested in training, here in Galicia there are more teachers per student than in the rest of Spain; so in Galicia universities are the most affordable ones in Spain; so in Galicia there are more vocational training places now than when the economic crisis began; so in Galicia, Your Honor, they are improving academic results and there is less dropout than ever. So, Your Honor, how important it is to retain talent, what we want is – and we have done it – the adoption of a law of universities and innovation in Galicia and a law of entrepreneurship, to which you voted against, you will know why. That is why we presented to the European Union the Strategy of Smart Specialization – €1.600 million – and we have the European Union's visa and pleasure, even the Commissioner for Innovation Funds has come to Galicia to congratulate not the Government, but the Greeks, on presenting this strategy that we are developing. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the Opportunius Programme, and that is why we will continue with the research programme contracts. Your Honor, believe me, we're going to hire 200 young men and girls in business, so they can continue to work on innovation. We don't try to discriminate against anyone, but those people you mean, who have all our respect, had a three-year contract... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u51	...we extended it one more, and ended that contract. What do you want? Now that those who have another contract stop working to let go of those we've trained among us all with the tax money of the Greeks? Is it true that you don't want any discrimination? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, there is no discrimination, which is 200 new contracts for young people and girls who want to continue working in Galicia in the field of innovation. [[Applause]] Nothing else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, I want to greet the guests who are present today in the gallery, and I'm going to read an institutional statement that brings me to all groups and that has to do with many of the people who accompany us today in the gallery. In particular, the institutional declaration consists of: "The Galician Parliament welcomes the resumption of diplomatic relations between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba." Quiet, please. "The last resolution this year, 69/5 of the United Nations General Assembly, entitled 'Need to put an end to the economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed by the United States of America against Cuba', concluded with 191 countries in favour of the resolution and 2 against - the United States and Israel - without any abstention. This is a powerful expression that all the governments and peoples of the world are asking you to lift the embargo on this country, and Galicia wants to show also its commitment and closeness to the fraternal ties that unite us with the people of Cuba. [[Murmurs.]] The last political events, with the visit of the President of the United States of America to Cuba, leave room for hope on the way to conquer a world free of war, in which peace, fraternity, solidarity and freedom govern the relationship between peoples." Thank you very much. We continue with the agenda, which corresponds to the point of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to protect and safeguard the declared heritage of cultural interest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u53	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Vázquez Blanco has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u54	Thank you, President. "We speak of our river, our village, as a collective experience. Those who visit us individually receive this social experience that is basically formed by tradition, scientific or professional work, and the way to see the world of every society." This quote by Ruíz Gil highlights two important aspects that lead us to reflect on the cultural heritage. On the one hand, it indicates how the material, understood here as tangible, is constructed by the human being – as the case of the village – or not – as the case of the river –, reflects and is part of the cosmosvision of a community. On the other hand, it expresses how this collective experience needs to be referred to by appropriate institutions, tradition and professionals. And with this, you're pointing at something very important, that cultural heritage is not in the universal genesis of nature, so it's not spontaneous, but, quite the contrary, it's part and result of the interaction of human beings with their fellows and their environment; an artifice of their creation and therefore reversible and dynamic. Besides, what is likely to be considered cultural heritage goes beyond man-made manually, including everything cleverly manipulated by this one. All cultural heritage experts thus recognize its two key aspects: heritage is creation-invention and social construction. The difference in much of natural property, all cultural heritage goods are non-renewable resources, and that's where the responsibility lies to ensure the preservation of our cultural heritage for the delight and research of present and future generations. We are bringing to this House today an initiative that aims to protect and safeguard our cultural heritage, and more specifically the goods classified as cultural interests. As you know, the goods of cultural interest, called BIC, are those furniture, immovable and immaterial goods that are more overshadowed by Galician cultural heritage, declared by decree of the Galician Union, or that by their singular characteristics are thus recognized by some normative provision of a generic nature. After their declaration or recognition, they are entered in the Galician Cultural Interest Property Registry, where they collect, among other things, the data relating to their identification and location, as well as others of interest to their protection. But, of course, the statement of a BIC determines the compatibility of use with a proper conservation of protected goods, so it determines the cessation of uses considered incompatible and the basic criteria for future interventions. From the Socialist Group, and also from the other opposition groups, we have denounced the state of abandonment and deprotection in which much of the Greek cultural heritage is found. We have often pointed out in this House that about 30% of BIC's declared assets no longer exist or are in a situation of serious risk. What happens is that, for an important part of this property, having this consideration means nothing more than appearing on a list that can be downloaded from the Galician Joint website, because the duty to protect and keep it is being flagrantly disregarded. With an important number of these assets, what happens is that when you try to visit them, you find that they don't exist anymore. Once you find stones, you find wildflowers, and you have to assume that under there may be some good, since it's catalogued on the board's website, but we don't know anything else. Having said this, we also have to point out that often there is not even a signage, something that should not be very expensive; I think this is something that can be resolved by making her interested and also a little will. There is no doubt that putting on some poster, identification of the land, or some obligation to complete by their owners, are actions that will allow us to keep our heritage alive. And we have to say that we're not talking about isolated cases. As I said, it is estimated that it is no less than about 30%, so we need to assume once we have a problem and that, as I said before, time plays against us, because heritage protection policy is not a policy that can wait. If you don't put the means to remedy the situation in which you find yourself much of our heritage, you'll suffer consequences that will have an irreversible character, and in fact you're already having. In addition, we must also make it clear that in many cases of goods restored with public subsidies, the owners of BIC-declared goods are not being required to enable the days and hours of visit, as is determined by the current legislation. The problem of wealth we not only put it as a manifesto from the opposition groups. During these years, various associations and collectives of artistic heritage have also denounced this dramatic situation. And we have to say that no alternative plan has been offered to remedy it, in addition to the fact that the management of the heritage and the actions of protection, conservation, restoration, rehabilitation or put in value of it constitute an important niche of employment for our country. The response of the Galician Union to this situation has always been the same: resource depletion, lack of initiative, lack of projects, disillusionment and a politically targeted selection of the few objects of attention over these seven years. And to confirm this disillusionment we only have to see the policy of the Greek Government reflected in the budgets. Under the heading on the protection of artistic, historical and cultural heritage, the investment increased from €22,168,000 in 2009, to €12,834,000 which has been booked for this year 2016. A game, in addition, which has been reduced every year in proportion to the abandonment of our heritage. And we also see how in the budgets of the Board for this year – that the government announced as expansive – incomprehensiblely, it still decreased by 6% compared to 2015. In addition to the scarce budget allocated to this matter, the Board practically only invests in the preservation of the heritage goods of the Catholic Church, clearly leaving other civic works of relevance. The association of general interest Hispania Ourra, dedicated to the defense of Spanish artistic heritage, has included in its sadly famous red list no less than 22 Greek monuments at this time, among which there are also several that have the consideration of BIC, such as Ferrol Vello, a highly degraded neighborhood, which has 49% of the dwellings uninhabited and with most of the buildings in very poor state of conservation, resulting in collapses and detachments; the monastery of Santa Maria de Monfero, which is in the process of ruining the monastery and the risk of total loss; the dolmen of Moruxa with progressive deterioration by abandonment, and even with a high risk of disappearance of paintings; the palace and tower of Guimarei, which is in the process of ruin and with covered buildings of vegetation or the tower of Sarria, with risk of overthrow by abandonment. And even we find ourselves also with national monuments, such as the Bishop's Palace of Diomondi or the wall paintings of the Romanesque Church of St. Julian of Moraime. These are a small part of a problem that can't wait any longer. And the reality is that, thanks to the work of many people and associations devoted to heritage, we can have information about the state in which many of the goods are found, the task in which a role is being played in which self-government should be the protagonist and which is not doing it. So, from the Socialist Group, we are presenting an initiative that seeks, on the one hand, to set up a committee composed of experts so that, within a maximum of six months, it may issue a report on the state of conservation in which the various immovable property classified as cultural interest is found, marking those that require immediate action. And after that, develop a programmed plan of actions aimed at protecting and safeguarding cultural heritage. An initiative which has already been presented by this group as a motion for a resolution in the last two debates in the state of Autonomy and which has been rejected by the People's Group on both occasions, imperceptibly delaying the possibility of establishing a diagnosis of the state in which BICs are found to be able to propose a plan of actions that impede the deterioration and ensure the preservation of goods that are in bad and at risk. To this refusal I also accompanied an announcement from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order that he was going to present an action plan for the rehabilitation of the Greek heritage, announcing that he fell into a broken bag, since nothing was again known of this. In addition, we cannot see at this time that the Draft Heritage Law is being processed and discussed, with which the Government of Greece hides the debate on the conservation of heritage. A law that we will already have an opportunity to debate in this House, which does not solve the problem of what we are talking about. On the contrary, from this group we have already warned that in our view this bill opens up some questions that we consider worrying and that affect precisely the conservation of heritage. But besides – we have said it on repeated occasions – we do not have a problem of regulation, so we do not have a regulatory problem, we have a problem of heritage policy, of interest, of projects, of initiative, and of course of commitment to budget. This group feels that having an inventory is very important, because it's hardly going to protect something if you don't know it. But something else is needed, because, in the same way, it's hardly going to remedy a problem if you don't know for sure that there is and what is its reach. That's why we ask once again for this initiative to be approved, to put ourselves to work immediately in the conservation of our heritage, because in this problem there is something we cannot ask for, which is time, because every day that we do without doing anything implies irreversible consequences for many of the goods that we have already agreed that it was our obligation to protect, and, as I said at first, cultural heritage is not renewable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u56	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. And welcome to the people upstairs, of guests. We are going from the Joint Group to support this non-law proposal because we believe that we are facing a very serious problem. The development of Europe and Galicia, which should also be of the so-called Western world, is very linked to the development of the concept of cultural heritage that we inherited from the past as a sign of historical identity. Today, it's one of the attributes that gives personality to each country, being of the few things that escape the homogeneity of the whole world. But what is the heritage for us? To build our history, to have proof of the past, to give root and consistency to our society, to raise our cultural level, to feel and generate pride, to preserve the environment in which this good is found, to attract visitors, and this also entails generating employment and wealth. And within the heritage, assets of cultural interest are the highest figure of protection, and the new law of Greek heritage that is being processed presents a great investment in the protection of it. The Galician Union promises that it will promote measures and actions aimed at ensuring the conservation of Galician cultural heritage and that it will be able to agree on measures of collaboration with the State Administration and the entities that make up the local administration, strengthening and improving the security of the assets that integrate our heritage, especially when threatened by acts of policing and destruction. But the reality is that not even the law of the year 1995 has been fulfilled as it should. The heritage, mostly, has been unprotected, abandoned, and many destroyed or missing goods. The new law that is in empty processing the powers of the Union in the field of heritage protection, deriving these powers from the municipalities, which in most cases have no resources or economic or human resources enough to be able to cope with these new powers, due to the small or narrow economy, which has been sharpened especially in recent years of cuts. We need coordination between the various councils involved in protecting and safeguarding the heritage, which are cultural, rural and environmental, because most BICs are in rural areas. Each of them has its own organizational chart and operating guidelines, and, as it tells us, there is no coordination program or communication pathways in the face of actions or problems that can be detected. Human and physical resources are scarce those that provide administrations, they are misused or ineffectively used because they are disillusioned, removed from reality or little operational. We still have no social participation strategy in heritage management. Advisory and advisory bodies are reduced and innovative approaches are not incorporated into heritage management that advocate democratization and social participation as keys to success in this cultural management, and the role of heritage in cohesion, development and wealth generator. There must be a coordinated communication between the municipalities themselves, informing the parishes, mountain communities, communities of water and neighbors of the heritage goods and their interests, and of the duties and obligations with regard to them. Promote in educational programmes and at different levels of the same educational units as the nearest heritage, as a study and evaluation reference for their knowledge and therefore respect and protection. Promote the connection of museums and classes with municipalities, schools and universities to optimize nearby resources related to heritage, and thus bring the great world of this cultural heritage that surrounds us and which we despise for ignorance and ignorance. From location to universal, to start making us wiser all citizenship without exception. Dissemination and promotion. Here too we have another great ejacism, because since May, by a decree of the Greek Government, you can only show the BIC heritage by those who are technicians in tourism, leaving out other professionals, such as history or archaeology. In Galicia we have a great problem with heritage wealth, because most of us find ourselves in rural areas, and we are going to step up to total depopulation, which puts all this at risk. Another factor that affects heritage protection, especially in recent years, for the great development that is taking place in many countries and other areas, is the tourist potential, which can play a role of economic dynamisation in its surroundings, especially in rural areas, where most BICs have said before. And not only that of the hostel, which is a bit of the politics that follows Galician Union. Junta is aware that, thanks to the silent and voluntary work of many people, collectives, associations, platforms, a part of our heritage is being conserved, spreading, even financing and denouncing all the challenges of the country ahead. We understand that there must be much more budgeted and in a more homogeneous way to preserve BICs and all cultural heritage, so that all Greeks and Greeks can enjoy and have a right to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u58	Good morning to all and to all. Since Alternative Galga de Left we will support the initiative, if we are quite convinced that it will not prosper, taking into account the work done by the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage and the consultancy since 2009, by setting a recent date, and taking into account the draft cultural heritage law itself. Given these two parameters, and seeing the true deslexion and abandonment, the privatization frameworks that suffered our cultural heritage, well simplified through archaeological parks and what happened to Campo Lameiro. Looking at all this, and knowing that the catalogue – the famous Inventory of Cultural Interest Goods – has a sort of institutional kidnapping, in such a way that what appears on the website itself on June 1 March 2016 more or less listed some 700 cultural interests, but we know that there are more than 4,000 parish churches and about 10,000 cruisers; if we also know that on the own collaborative website of heritagegalego.net there are more than 6,000 inventoryed goods, because it is clear that we lack a correct, dimensional view of the cultural interest goods in Galicia. But it's very easy to understand why you play with this inventory when you don't know exactly why. For it's very easy, if there's silence, you don't know, it's easier to proceed to certain outcomes in the name of what's called progress, and we know that in that dialectic between infrastructure and progress it logically ends up losing the cultural heritage. We see it clearly with what happened with the necropolis of Coses, we see it with what happened with the chest of Noia, at the tip where the viaduct sat and we're seeing it in many other aspects which, in addition, are completely silent. In addition, it must be borne in mind that if we add to this whole process the disastrous policy of the Galician Union in terms of maintaining population in rural areas in the interior provinces, it is clear that the heritage in these interior provinces is also suffering a process of destruction by abandonment, desertification, and therefore it is clear that politics as a whole is lacking. Moreover, you deny even in that bill of law to citizenship – which is the only one that is being mobilized, because they themselves are going through certain abandoned nuclei to maintain heritage – that recognition, and even deny you the real participation in the organs that can decide, because the fundamental thing in all this is that local communities are represented and able to participate. Now, under the responsibility of the Galician Union, and you here are completely running away from your political responsibility in terms of safeguarding, preventing and protecting cultural matters, because you only consider the goods of cultural interest, depending on a kind of synonym, well of tourist interest, and therefore a commodity of commercial interest that has to produce a determined economic profitability. And so they do, in their own bill, when they talk about the free economic initiative recognized as free enterprise within the framework of a market economy. When this is introduced into a text designed to protect cultural heritage, it is clear that in this confrontation it will lose its cultural heritage. The same is true of this famous article 14 which appears in the current bill, which speaks of the census, where it speaks of a census in an ethereal way and literally incorporates itself "without necessarily assuming physical conservation". Well, we say that the goods of cultural interest, our heritage, we have to know it, we have to study it, we have to spread it and we have to preserve it, because we will know perfectly well how to keep our memory as a people and our identity as a society, as a collective. For us this article is a normative nonsense, and it also causes enormous legal insecurity. Therefore, on the basis of these aspects and others which are likely to come out of the discussion that we have in the Committee on Education and Culture tomorrow when it comes to the draft law on cultural heritage, on the basis of this we support the initiative, knowing perfectly that the reading of the People's Party is quite different, because it is interested to be silent in order to be able to act on behalf of the market. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. From the Parliamentary Group of the BNG we welcome the debate on this initiative, which allows us to speak again about the situation of the Greek cultural heritage; a rich, extensive heritage, which has the quality, in addition, that it conjugates from works that have a great interest from the architectural point of view, to a heritage more linked to our tradition, with pockets of souls, with horrees, with manifestations of what heritage value is. Which is, of course, a very extensive heritage, very rich and which is at this moment with serious problems about it. There's a question that's pointing to all the expert people, and there's an accelerated deterioration of the Greek heritage assets. And a very clear symptom is this fact that three out of ten assets declared as assets of cultural interest are now in ruin or are no longer in existence. So that's a symptom of a more serious deterioration that has a very good part of our cultural heritage, because even there are goods that don't have the BIC catalog, and they should have it, which are absolutely unprotected, helpless. And in that sense, we understand that there is a breach of the obligations of the administration itself. It's obvious that the Cultural Heritage Act is a published law, but it's not practical efficacy, and that has very serious consequences for the Galician Nationalist Block. We could talk about how many goods have been destroyed over the last century in our country, even recently, because we saw as constructions that from the symbolic point of view and from the point of view of their value were demolished. One of the last ones I remember, even by memory, could be the collapse of the Grand Teatro de Lugo to build a building. I mean, there are actions that have been done about goods that should be conserved and that what they're showing us is that heritage is very fragile and that we have to maintain a very strong social consciousness. In view of that, we see it is the passivity of the administration itself. We don't have to go far enough to talk about conservation problems in our heritage, many of them reported in this Parliament. We could talk about the works of the Sarria River, the castle of the Healing in Silleda, with the permission of the Galician Union itself to perform an act that damaged the castle of the Healing. We could talk about how even in places like Campo Lameiro the performance of the field management itself led to the destruction of a petroglyph, as much as I wanted to minimize it by the Administration. Problems with cave art paintings in the Eiros cave, and in recent days we have also seen collectives in which there is a very important social implication, as it may be Marine Heritage, who reported a damage in the castle of Mount Arc, in Mondoñedo, a categorized chest, which was also a damage caused by heavy machinery by eucalyptus planting, and are warning that there are more than 200 goods catalogued in the Navy in plots that currently have eucalyptus and that are clearly in danger. We went this week as in a very close council where I'm from the very community of mountains of the Incio, Samos and Sarria, I was demanding that if you'd signal which are the marbles that are included in a good of cultural interest, because you don't know exactly where they are. They want to do forestry maintenance jobs and, of course, if they do, they can damage the goods, and if they don't, there's economic loss. So this is a clear symptom of the administration's dislocation, which doesn't even act when there are requests from the administering themselves. Obviously, I believe that there is an obvious disillusionment and a lack of clear means in the Directorate-General of Heritage in order to be able to meet the obligations that the Administration has. It would be good if the spokesperson for the People's Party himself had told us what the allocation of resources within the Administration to control assets. It seems to us a scandal that in a province like the one in Coruña there is only one technician, an archaeologist, in order to be able to follow up all the actions that have to be done, which is the state of conservation of goods and how this service has been deteriorating and the General Directorate of Heritage itself, which today clearly is an entity I would say in latent state, because it is neither act nor have resources. We said it here during the discussion of the Heritage Law. It's a scandal that we have 8 million for investment in wealth for all the general direction, for investment in heritage in the conservation of goods, and that's spending 12 million euros for the City of Culture. It's a symptom where Galician Union has its priorities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Baamnde Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. There is no doubt, indeed, as has already been stated in this gallery, that language, territory, history and culture, and within it cultural heritage, are signs of the identity of a people. There is no doubt – more or less so – that if there is something that survives in history and remains in the same history, it is the cultural footprint of the people, understanding by this way the collective construction that encompasses the totality of knowledge. In this sense, it is obvious that all measures and actions to defend the heritage are necessary and always well received. And also in that sense today, the Socialist Parliamentary Group is presenting an initiative which, as Mr Ron well knew, we are not going to support because it seems to us to be an initiative, in theory, in defence of heritage, but in practice completely lacking virtuality for these effects. And you know what Pavarotti said, that trying to learn music by studying music alone is just like trying to make love by mail. And something like that seems to be what happens to the initiative you're presenting. From a practical point of view, it serves very little, for nothing. First of all, because it brings the collation a mechanism of action which in parliamentary experience logically produces shocks. This parliamentary experience, with regard to other committees of study carried out, indicates that in particular the committees of experts and wise men who in the two-party Government were studied to provide content to the City of Culture with an entirely empty City of Culture of contents. The study commission that was created in 2006, following the wave of fires, ended up as a true seminar that had no other virtuality than trying to divert responsibility. That's why we believe that the Socialist Group's initiative, which we welcome in form and thank Mr Vázquez for his intervention, is in practice nothing but a genuine toast to the sun. But it's also an absolutely unnecessary initiative. It would be unnecessary because Galicia already has public instruments responsible for the management, conservation and protection of heritage; a function specifically stipulated and assigned to the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage, which, of course, has a list of professionals and technical experts and officials who can play and come playing – within, logically, of the resources available – perfectly this function. It is not true, on the other hand, that the Board is failing to comply with the update obligation of the catalogue, which is being carried out. But what attracts attention and does not cease to surprise is, in a way, the disregard – not to use another more powerful term – that this initiative represents for those professionals and technicians of the Culture Council who have been playing this role. And I would also be surprised, but it is not surprising by the repetitive, contradiction that those who normally claim to be advocates of the management of public interests, increasingly repeatedly bring to this Parliament initiatives in which this management is placed in private hands, the pure liberal style that you criticize. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we do not know what is the reason for the presentation of this initiative right now, just when it is being processed – as has already been mentioned here – the Cultural Heritage Act. A law of cultural heritage which, to a large extent, seeks to give answers to these circumstances; a law which, among other acts, determines the necessary for the identification of cultural heritage goods, the types of intervention, the levels of protection, and which also establishes as self-existence the five-year period to identify and specify BICs, and the two-year period to disseminate the relationship of BICs and catalogued goods. Therefore, this initiative is not understood unless there is a question of political opportunism, bringing to the debate something that has emerged in the media; that we seek to play a part in the debate of the law by insisting on the repeated criticism – which has already been done at the control session to the President – of the budget action of the Galician Union, and to which the President himself has already responded, and which therefore saves me no comment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u64	In any case, what this initiative conveys is the feeling that you lack your own heritage project, cultural performance, they put in their hands apart from solving the problems, and they want others to solve them. So let me summarize by saying that this initiative is a "cut" in the purest sense of the cuckoo, that bird that sang Suso Baamonde, which sings in April, and that the popular assortment said so clear of: "I am of the opinion of the cuckoo, bird that never goes away, puts the egg in another nest, and another bird believes it." You put eggs in the nest that seem appropriate to you, but don't expect us to create them with initiatives like this, which in practice have no virtuality at all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u65	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u66	Thank you, President. First of all, I want to thank, as it cannot be otherwise, for the support of the Joint Group, the BNG, and the AGE for this initiative, and I have once again to regret the refusal of the People's Party. Above all, regretting the arguments put forward here, which are neither arguments nor explanations given, simply making excuses not to support it, which is not surprising to us, as the AGE spokesman put forward. The problem is, once again, if you keep turning your back on the reality of our country and our heritage is still doomed, abandoned, and deteriorating over time. During these years, Mr. Baamonde, with the Government of the People's Party, our heritage has not only suffered a budgetary loss – as they have previously explained – gradually, but also has been found with dislodge in the matter of conservation; and its intervention shows good evidence of the lack of sensitivity that this government has with something as valuable as our cultural heritage. It's just a short time since we're showing the state in which we're up to 30% of BICs. It is of little use that it is made manifest that, thanks to the work of various collectives and associations, if you are aware of the deterioration to which the heritage is being subjected, leaving in evidence the role played by the Government of Galicia, which is responsible and which must safeguard its conservation. Besides that heritage restoration – as I said before – can be a niche of employment for our country. You refuse to recognize reality, and the worst of this is that it has serious consequences that, unfortunately, the difference in other policies, they have no settlement and they have irreversible character many times. It is interesting that, at the same time as you are seeking consensus to approve a draft heritage law, you are not even able to support an initiative which is something as simple and important as establishing a commission which issues a report on the state of conservation in which cultural interest goods are found, and signal which require immediate action, to establish a plan of action. As we have already told you, the problem of heritage is not a matter of law, so all experts say. And much less when a bill is promoted that, far from progressing in the protection of heritage, opens serious questions about the regulation and protection of many goods, and therefore that entails a reversal in this area. It is a matter of means, Mr Baamonde, because they actually need means to preserve the heritage. But it's also a matter of sensitivity, education, self-respect and self-esteem, and of course it needs to work and protection mechanisms to be driven. Awareness, education, are fundamental, but it also requires a collective awareness that these goods are a matter that affects us all. Having an inventory – as I said – is very important, since you can hardly protect something that you don't know exists. But without a continuous update on the state of the goods, and of course without diagnosis, the measures that put an end to this situation cannot be promoted. And this is what we are asking for today, concrete actions that prevent irreparable damage that it is evident that they suffer many goods this House approves of being considered BIC, without that having any consequences, rather than appear on a list of the Galician board's website, but without any knowledge of its state and without seeking remedies to ensure its conservation. That is why we regret, once again, that we insist on their policy of abandonment of heritage, that they continue to contribute to the irreparable loss of many goods in a grave situation. The truth is, seeing your position here today, it will be hard to believe, when we discuss in this House the bill of heritage, that the Government of Greece works for the conservation of Galicia's rich cultural heritage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u67	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubina Solla and seven other Members, on the development by the Galician Union of a work programme for women victims of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u68	Two amendments were tabled to this initiative, one from the Joint Group and one from the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u69	To formulate this non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u70	Good morning to all of you. Before the intervention began, I wanted once again to condemn and reject the last two cases of macho violence murder, which one of them took place in the province of Lugo. Having said that, I begin my presentation by saying that the Geneva Gender Violence Act of 2007 was approved in this Parliament unanimously by all parliamentary groups. This law of 2007 provided for comprehensive action on this serious social problem, both in its prevention and in the treatment of victims. This treatment must be based, as we all know, on a coordinated system of services, resources and measures; a system that, when this government comes to power, consisted of the network of information centres for women, the network of foster homes, the agreement with the College of Psychology for psychological care, and periodic assistance to facilitate economic independence. All these means certainly assumed significant advances in their attention, but they all had margin of improvement. So, in recent years, the coverage of the CIM has extended to 167 municipalities, and will improve with the new regulation in process. The network of foster homes, which was integrated into the state network through an agreement signed in 2014 by the autonomous communities, allows transfers throughout the national territory when necessary. The agreement with College of Psychologists, since 2014, also includes attention to women with hearing or speech disabilities. And periodic help, this year, their budget rose by 16%. Without going further, in the previous call, 339 women were attended, a number greater than any previous exercise by 2009. For this care model to be truly integral, it is not enough to improve the existing one, it has been necessary to create new services. Thus, since 2011 the immediate schooling of children and children of victims of gender-based violence who need to be cared for at the centre because of this situation has been regulated. Since 2012, there has been a network of local entities against gender violence, with coordinated actions throughout Galicia. Since 2013, school dining is free for children and daughters of women who have suffered this violence. And since 2013 there has also been a free transport service to the Centres of the Galaga de Comento Network, through an agreement with Fegataxi, as well as an abbreviated processing system for victims of gender-based violence. Since 2014 the Centre for Comprehensive Recovery in Santiago de Compostela, with specialized staff, and various areas of action, has been in the process of recovering women who have managed to put the situation of violence behind them. Since 2015, two state agreements have allowed the Autonomic Police to direct attention to victims of violence and access the Viogen database. Similarly, for a few months now, Junta has been offering a mobile application service, with guidance and resources for the victims, the result of a collaboration with the Computer Engineering College. For all this, this comprehensive system of attention to victims of violence is now much more comprehensive and much more complete than it was seven years ago. But we believe that further progress is still needed in areas that are also fundamental. One of these issues is the job placement of women who have suffered macho violence; job insertion that allows them to start a new independent life, free from violence and far from the aggressor's scope. It is also true that the Galician Union already gave priority to victims in all its call for assistance, both for training and for the recruitment of unemployed women, as set out in the 2007 annual follow-up report. But according to the various documents prepared by the Board these years, such as the VI Equality Plan, or the Social Inclusion Strategy, they recommend giving a new impetus to the labour integration policies of these women victims of violence, who go through collaboration with the associative tissue and specialized care, with specific and also adapted itineraries. This obligation is governed by this non-law proposal, which further complements the network of services and resources available to victims of violence in the community. In the budgets of the Galician Union, an economic departure of EUR 975,000 is already included for the years 2016 and 2017, which aim to continue to increase more measures for victims of violence, in order to achieve that labour integration. So what do we propose through this proposal not of law? We propose a work insertion program, subsidizing non-profit entities that develop their work in aid, recovery and also in accompanying victims, for the development of those work insertion measures addressed to women in the Autonomous Community of Galicia who believe it through any of the formulas provided for in Article 5 of the law of Greece. What should this program take into account? First, the creation of a work integration itinerary that includes the design of a custom plan, with individual interviews that provide information on the resources available; i.e. skills for employment, availability, training, work experience, etc. Professional guidance and job counselling, such as curriculum development, job search techniques, information counselling, workshops and so on. Look for active employment with accompaniment and follow-up, both in the search and in the job. Work brokerage and contract with companies, managing those possible job offers that best fit the job profile of the aspirants. Follow-up of this job insertion and also evaluation of the work done, as well as of other issues aimed at increasing and improving the employability of women victims. Secondly, we propose training for employment, including training measures to acquire key skills, training in coaching, and social training for immigrant women as well. Thirdly, we propose actions to support conciliation, making all personal and family care services available, which facilitate the participation of women victims of violence in those and these actions included in that work integration itinerary, or also training, necessary for access to employment. So those are the things that we propose in this proposal not of law. We hope to count on the collaboration and support of opposition groups in order to develop new measures of labour integration for victims of gender-based violence. As for the amendments tabled, I'll be positioned on the replica shift. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u72	Good morning, ladies. Thank you very much, President. The expository text of this PP initiative – an absolutely empty, but full, widespread initiative of paternalism – argues that the social and labour integration of battered women is the best way to achieve economic independence, as well as the recovery of self-esteem that enables them to restart a new situation away from the situation of ill-treatment. Well, that's all right. But, as the labour market is after the reforms carried out by the People's Party, this honourable Member very much doubts that a temporary part-time contract, in precarious terms, is the ideal tool for achieving the economic independence of battered women. Above all, if this battered woman finds herself in the event of her progeny or dependents. Labour insecurity is feminized, ladies and gentlemen, with a wage gap of 17.8% above the European average, and makes women get to a job in worse conditions than men. Moreover, he overcomes the obligation to perform his functions without real and effective measures for employment and personal reconciliation, a vital issue in the case of a worker who is a victim of gender-based violence. Moreover, the policies of austerity of the People's Party have relegated many women to the traditional roles of subordination and care. In short, it's women who suffer most from work insecurity. The lists of unemployment, precariousness, temporality, part-time work, part-time work, part-time work and part-time retirement, in a limited working life in time and quality and generating insufficient wages and pensions. In view of this, allow me, Madam, to doubt the content of this LNP. On the other hand, you start from a false reality that responds to a socially established myth, that gender violence suffers from a specific type of woman, with very stereotyped characteristics: passive woman, uneducated woman, without paid work, who shares life, supposedly with an alcoholic or a unemployed person. Nothing further from reality! They don't expect any woman to suffer from this kind of assault, when it's true that there's no profile of a woman who tends to be abused. A recent study of 300 working women who were ill-treated shows that 91% of these women who had jobs did not complain because they were afraid of losing their jobs. So, and because of the importance of employment for a woman who is a victim of macho violence, I present this amendment, aimed at ensuring and facilitating the continued employment of women who had it before or during the process of ill-treatment. Mostly I'm referring to the private company. The amendment I present includes the following points: Reduction and/or reorganization of your schedule and work schedule, without this assuming a decrease, at all, no decrease, in your salary. Adaptation of their work functions to possible physical or psychic sequelae derived from their victim status. Employment reserve for one year, extendable to three, when the woman is forced to stop working or change population as a result of ill-treatment. The non-consideration of lack of assistance and/or punctuality arising from their victim status, when this is believed by the competent professionals. And preference for job mobility for working women who are victims of gender-based violence. By all means, I hope the People's Party will accept this amendment, if its concern is the release of ill-treatment through the insertion into the labour market. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u74	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Madam, less sympathy and more proposals. But in addition to serious and compromised proposals, and not that kind of hair – because it's politically correct – that you bring us today. Less advertising and less bombing, because, Madam, unfortunately, the victims killed – I congratulate her because they are no longer dead, something we can do – grow every day. According to data from the 2015 Gender Violence Report we just met, data from Mr. Rueda's own Councillorship, were 5,210 women who reported being abused by gender violence, of course there are many more victims. But according to the same report, there were only 25 victims who found employment through cooperation plans, 2 more victims with self-employment, and 2 others found part-time work; total, Madam, 29 victims with 5,210 complaints. I don't know if you look like this good data, because 29 jobs don't seem to me to have a solution for that number of victims. I don't know if with that data you think it's appropriate for the parliamentary group that supports the Government to bring an initiative of its characteristics; that is, an itinerary of insertion, more training and support for conciliation. Do you think this is going to solve the problem we obviously have? Of course, from the People's Party's commitment to women's work we have a very clear example: Mr. Baltar's model. And Mr. Feijóo's commitment to the work of women victims of gender-based violence also has a very clear example: that of the girl's marishers. I mean, nothing at all. But in case someone doesn't get enough of those examples, we're going to look at what -- as you said -- they found themselves when they got to the government. Look, I'll tell you what you found when you got to the government. They found a Welsh law, an autonomous law, for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence which includes a scheme of aid and subsidies to promote the employment of women who suffer from gender-based violence in our country, through, Madam, cooperation programmes. You also found the Order of 29 December 2008, which regulated these approaches and established that the grant applications for the recruitment of women victims of violence in those programmes would not be subject to the deadline for submission and that they would always have a duration of twelve months. And you also found that in the last government budget exercise of Mr. Touriño, about 60 million euros, 59,479,000 euros were earmarked for these programmes. And how did you improve the existing ones, what did you find? Well, I'll tell him. Mr Feijóo has changed three things in the cooperation programmes: the count, the length and the time to request it; by the way, also for victims of violence. So Mr Feijóo in 2015 sent these programmes EUR 1.3 million, nothing to do with the 60 million in 2008. The deadline for applications, Madam, is only 30 days, from 31 December to 30 January, also for victims of violence. And the duration of the contracts will not exceed three months, when they are full-time, or six if they are part-time; I insist, also for the victims. So the cut of Feijóo's work plans for women victims is obvious. A full-time one-year contract, and at the time of the year when the victim's condition is believed, only three months and only one month to be able to access it. But we must not forget that the duration of the contract conditions the benefits to which the victim can access once that contract is completed. That is, Madam, that the Bipartite guarantees a protection horizon of 34 or 42 months for women victims, depending on the age of that victim, and now with Mr Feijóo, and with Mr Feijóo's improvements, only 6 in case of family burdens. That is the real situation, ladies and gentlemen, and that is why we tabled our amendment, in which we call for a return to the situation that you have found. Let's hope that if you really want to help the victims and do something for the work of women and all the victims of gender-based violence, you will accept our amendment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u76	Thank you, President. The truth is, a little on the line of what the previous spokespersons have already exposed, it is contradictory this initiative brought to us by the People's Party here today. It is contradictory because they seem concerned by women's employment, and women who are victims of gender-based violence in particular, when it is precisely – as has already been said – the destruction of employment and quality employment, which is most conducive to the labour reform of the People's Party, which is causing a greater increase in that female poverty, and therefore an increase in the inequality that we have suffered by women. We have on the table – we have it discussed – a 22% pay gap, which is more than 45% in women over 65, who also have the lowest pensions. The bulk of women in Greece charges between 0 and 1.5 minimum interprofessional wages; between 0 and 1.5. The loss of occupation among young women continues; it is in all the studies recently published on March 8th. And of all the Galicians, it's already 23.1% that work part-time, almost a quarter of the total number of the Greek workers. It is also contradictory when the People's Party has defended its policies in gender-based violence. In fact, the spokesperson who defended this initiative at the same time defended the policies of the People's Party in this issue, understanding that they are doing things about the socio-economic integration of women who have suffered gender violence. However, they present this non-law proposal, which seems to make it clear – or it seems by reading the text, by the non-intervention – that the People's Group assumes that there are currently no policies within the active inclusion of these women, despite the fact that – as they have acknowledged on their own initiative and have reaffirmed the members of the Equality Commission – this issue is essential for a woman who is a victim of gender-based violence to be able to abandon the aggressor if she is economically dependent on it. Now that you've finished your legislation, it's when you decide to propose some socio-laboral training measures for insertion, counselling and conciliation measures. Now, two legislatures later. Nor is the budgetary data really to be assumed. In 2015 – said Mrs Acuña already – according to the data contained in the report itself of the Secretariat of Equality, they were recognized in Galicia around 5,000 victims of gender-based violence. And if we take into account that departure given by the People's Party in the initiative, we'll have an account of EUR 130 for each woman. And I ask, what are you going to do with 130 euros? How are they going to insert or train for a 130-euro woman's job placement? It takes a day for a day, a day for a day's training. So I ask, it would be good for the rapporteur to clarify to us how these measures will be developed with that very low budget, with EUR 130 per woman, if we take into account only those of 2015 because, obviously, there can be women of previous years who continue in that situation of unemployment and are victims of gender violence. And, of course, this initiative is contradictory because you have voted against all these years, and in recent months, of all the proposals put forward by the other working groups and other subjects concerning victims of gender-based violence in this legislation. And it seems that, at the end of the legislation, precisely the People's Party wanted to show some concern about this matter, which is not evidenced by their real policies. We must remember that there are no measures. We saw at the meeting of the Secretary-General for Equality on the 2015 Violence Report that there was not a single measure taken on this issue; it is not included in the report. And besides these equality plans in companies, which, by the way, I have to remember that another year - and we have already been three - has been asked what effect these equality plans have had, if they have been used for greater recruitment, if they have served for a more stable job of women, there has been no response, and we have been without answers for three consecutive years now. There is no analysis of the impact of destruction of public employment either, mostly female, especially in education, health and well-being. And it's striking that you don't propose anything in this field. We therefore understand that the proposal is merely cosmetic; with little content, because nothing is concrete. And we'd like to know if with her – as I said – the People's Party motivates the People's Party of Government, which has done nothing in these two laws, now pretended to do it with 130 euros per woman victim of gender violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Oubina, I must confess to you that on 8 March I had real political problems, including intellectuals, to understand Mr Feijó's announcement that the Board would approve a work insertion program for women victims of gender violence, which was gifted with 600,000 euros, and that was exactly what you explained now a month later from this rostrum. In fact, he went out in all the newspapers. Then I went to the board page, to the General Secretariat of Equality, to check how this plan was designed. It's undesigned, it's still there. You can enter the website and you will see that the headlines are simply followed. With the Secretary-General of Equality himself we discussed this plan; well, the report on violence, and he talked about the plan. But of course, I'll tell you why I have real problems. When you talk about the Galician Law of Prevention and Treatment of Gender Violence, you will remember that in its article 35 and article 36 they demarcate – or at least try to focus on work; in the field of work which, when making the law and when approved in this House, is considered to be transversal. That is, what should not assume the General Secretariat itself of Equality, with its scarce resources, almost always, in all governments of all colors and all the spaces of the world, is the work of women, but the Labour Council in all its plans and in all departments that have orders of subsidies and are generating work for self-employed, for entrepreneurs, for innovation, must assume this recruitment of women victims of gender violence. That's the spirit with which the law is designed. On the basis of that, and already with the law in hand, Article 35 states exactly: "(a) Establishment of women who suffer from gender-based violence as a preferential collective in all of the autonomous regulations relating to the establishment of aid and subsidies to enterprises for the recruitment of staff". –Don't you? No-; "(b)Setting up a scheme of specific subsidies for companies employing women who suffer from gender-based violence, laying down measures and actions to promote their recruitment on a stable basis"—in the middle—; "(c)Setting up a scheme of aid and subsidies for women who suffer from gender-based violence when they decide to become self-employed. In these cases, aids will also be established to ensure support and personalized tutorial support and follow-up of your project" – if, with reluctance, we have seen the data, they have just given them, and do not encourage them, it is not collected in the Entreprepreprepreneurship Law, which although it is set up as an amendment, it has not been accepted, it is not as a preference group of "Galiza entrepreneurs", it is not, if I do not see the data, they have just given them, and it is not encouraged, it is not collected in the Entrepreprepreneurship Act, which is not collected in the entrepreneurship Act, which although it is put itself as an amendment amendment amendment, it is not necessary to go to any specific plan, because this was necessarily necessary because I am not going to stop this because you know it; "(d) Setting up a scheme of aid and subsidies and grants for the promotion of women who suffer gender violence through cooperation programmes of gender-based, gender-based, gender-based, gender-based, gender-based, gender-based and professional-based, job-based, job-based and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based and professional-based, and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based, and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based, and professional-based, job-based, job-based, job-based, and professional-based, and professional-based, job-based, and professional-based, job-based, and labour-based, and professional-based, and professional-based, and professional-based, job-based, and professional-based, job-based, and"Whether done or not done? No, or half of them – "The vocational and occupational training courses shall provide for economic aid for women who suffer from gender-based violence under the conditions which are legally established; 2. The Public Employment Service of Galicia will ensure in all selection procedures that are carried out through employment offices the preference of women who suffer from gender-based violence always and when they meet all the requirements. 3. The competence of the Galician Council in the prevention of risks to protect safety and health at work will actively integrate the principle of equal treatment between men and women into its objectives and actions and investigate the influence of gender-based violence on the emergence and worsening of occupational diseases."– Is it done? No, I'm not. "Article 36. Business equality plans." It's four points that don't give me time to develop because I have 38 seconds left. Of course, when I see the initiative, I, with no clarity, try simply to read it literally and without making any reference to what Mr Feijóo had announced on 8 March as a large measure, given that they have voted against the elaboration of a female employment plan, which is binding on the Vigilante Law of equal work for women in Galicia and Mr Feijóo's promise in the 2009 takeover, of course, that we have to vote on this initiative? For the BNG Parliamentary Group has decided not to vote, simply. Of course, we're not against the inclusion of women victims of gender-based violence, of course, yes, like you, who also supported this law. They develop the law, they don't have us here – with all due respect – on such an important subject in the debate, it's a booty of hair. I'm just saying I don't understand. Either you don't know the law or you don't want to develop. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Author group of the initiative. Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact is that we regret that opposition groups are not sensitive to supporting this initiative. I think you confuse two things here, they confuse what is a plan of employment with which we propose today, which is a programme of measures to aid the insertion of work. And I think that's probably confusing him in a manner that tortures him. I believe that this initiative is part of the need for women victims of violence to be cared for in order to overcome the situation of abuse and to be able to start that new life. Both in services and in resources and measures and economic means have already said here that all of them have been increased in recent years. Mrs. Acuña, do not confuse yourself with the structure that had the previous Board and the structure that has the current one. We therefore believe that new measures are still needed, especially in the workplace. As for the amendments tabled, we must say, in relation to Mrs Acuña, the Socialist Party, that, well, we think that the data you said we should not improve them, in this it turns out that this proposal is not of law. What you present to us as an amendment has nothing to do with the initiative we are presenting today. Our initiative proposes a programme of work integration measures for victims through those non-profit entities, such as aid, recovery and, above all, accompanying measures. You ask to modify the basis for modifying employment promotion grants to local entities, and we want to continue to work with local entities to promote employment for women victims of violence; therefore, we cannot accept that initiative. As for the amendment that the Joint Group makes to us, I repeat again that this, Mrs Iglesias, is not a employment plan, but it is a training programme and, above all, as I said before, accompaniment. And although I mostly share all the measures you propose, in this sense we must remember that victims of gender-based violence have always had and will have a preferential treatment in employment policies. The Board has just activated the Employment Agenda 20, which has already been discussed here in another plenary session, with the establishment of an equal employment plan, a program, as you know, of preferential employability for those victims of violence. So we can't accept this amendment either, but we invite them to recap and support what we just presented today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the care and prevention of oral health in the public health system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u82	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u83	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor to Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u84	Thank you, President. Bucodental care has never been the strong dish in Welsh health nor in Spanish, which together with Romania is the country where the dentist is less visited. It is no wonder, since public assistance does not only cover anything, in contrast to the oral health model of other European countries, and the high cost of oral health to families, which must be paid private attention. In France, for example, public health is responsible for 70% of the rate set by the system for both embassies, endodontics and cleaning, and 100% of orthodontics if the dentist respects the official tariffs in the French health system. In Germany too, for example, the state covers orthodontics and primary embassies that do not have an aesthetic purpose. In Spain, oral protection reaches children between the ages of 6 and 14 years, and a number of operations that do not include orthodontics, being these advantages for the child population, on the other hand, very unequal depending on the autonomous community. But for adult population, only extractions and some emergency operations are covered in the public health system. The crisis has deepened its roots in all aspects and sectors, and the odontological sector has seen these years disappear much of its clientele due to lack of money to cost a service that has free prices and which is a luxury to which not everyone can access. 90% of the population over 65 years old only retains a measure of between 6 and 12 dental parts, the revisions decreased by 35% and more than half of the population were dentists between 2011 and 2012, according to data from the Official College of Dentologists. This situation was the cultivation broth for the appearance of dental clinics understood as business, mounted with business criteria and marketing by people who have nothing to do with oral health, and that at low cost prices offer services in precarious terms, both as regards materials and as regards the staff who attends users. What makes the diagnosis often – and the funding plan – is a commercial, and health professionals who operate in these clinics do it in working conditions as well as wages and schedules that are not the most suitable for a good season. There are cases of wages less than 1,000 euros for hours of 10 hours a day. The Vitaldent and Funnydent cases are examples of the bad practices of this kind of company, and we should look at them and have them as an example of what we expect if we dismantle the public health system that came to protect us and deliver it to the entrepreneurship and the private sector. According to the General College of Dentologists, in Galicia there is a dentist for 25,000 gales in the public health system. This despite the number of unemployed dentists hired precariously by the aforementioned clinics or, in most cases, in emigration. And more and more this number of dentists is increasing, because 60% come from private university, which makes deaf ears to the demand for nomerus clauses from dental schools to balance supply and demand. The reality is that a public health dentist is forced to attend about 30 people per extraction consultation, he has no time left for anything else. Those who require surgery are derived from the Maxilofacial Unit, which in Galicia is a traveling unit. So things, and without an official fee, the Welsh people who need embassies, endodontics, prosthetics or other preventive measures of oral health are forced to extract the piece, to go to private health or to highly apparent but supposedly fraudulent clinics. It is regrettable that governments have not been concerned about creating primary public orcosanitarian care for the adult population in the same way as for the child population; a basic package in Social Security that should cover, at least, the past, the endodontics and the prostheses, and excluding, as I said before, those that have aesthetic purposes. A measure that would improve quality, since dental health affects a person's general state of health. Retired with the lowest pensions in the state, whose economy does not allow preventive and corrective care of their oral health, they abound in our country. They are the sequels of a crisis that has sown the teeth of our older ones and left their smiles toothless. In addition, good general health inevitably passes through good oral health, given the influence it exerts on the rest of the immune system, being very common, and by all and all known, apparently isolated discomforts, such as headaches, infections and other problems that cause it has to do with dental ill state, including alopecia. Therefore, oral health prevention, since it has a definitive influence on quality of life and the rest of illnesses, should be a priority in the public health system. I believe, I believe, that this honourable Member since my humility, that with good prevention, costs and health resources could be saved which are produced by the deficiencies and poor oral state. That's why I ask you to consider this proposal not of law and we have effective and fair health, to address real, health problems, for all of us. I think this initiative comes to remedy a social debt that affects the whole society of well-being. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u85	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u86	Thank you, President. We saw today how Mr. Feijóo is using this House to campaign. Three minutes ago as president and three more minutes as candidate. And it is not that we have any problems with the electoral campaigns, Mr, as you told us yesterday. But we have many things against the parties that perpetuate themselves in power by funding and doing election campaigns with money and public resources, as the People's Party is supposedly doing. But, of course, on health matters should not work for you, because in Galicia we know very well that the People's Party, first with Mrs Farjas, then with Mrs Mosquera, now with Mr. Almuña, and always with President Feijóo, has cut down and deteriorated everything the public health system could with the excuse of the crisis. While, by the way, he spent millions and millions of euros, ladies and gentlemen, European funds and also own funds on privatizing technology, services and even hospitals. The Greeks and the Greeks are very clear that Mr. Feijóo, nothing more to come to the Government, suppressed from a pen all that had been put into effect during the Government of Mr. Touriño to improve our health and all that had been increased in the portfolio of services of the public health system in Greece. And, of course, oral health was no exception. During the Bipartisan Government, the oral health program will be incorporated into the service portfolio. For this purpose, the oral health units were extended to 89, providing them with the human resources and material resources needed to function normally. More than 30 people were hired, exactly 11 dentists and 21 hygienics. And in the Primary Care Improvement Plan, it was intended to increase hygienic individuals in primary care. Finally, the public system of resources needed to meet the new benefits, and I am talking about oral hygiene, embassies, cracks and endodontics of children up to 14 years old, and the care of the mouth of pregnant women, including ultrasound dental cleaning. And it was intended, ladies and gentlemen, to continue to expand these care progressively in the years ahead, starting with extending them to pensioners, to people with some disability or chronic illness. But, of course, PP has come and all that's gone. That is why from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have joined the proposal which Mrs Iglesias makes to us today, because, indeed, we believe that we must continue to implement within the public health benefits the care of oral health. No doubt, ladies and gentlemen, we have to resume that allowance from where Mr Feijóo's arrival to the Government has left her. We then thought that we would have to be gradually introducing that attention, and today in this economic context that we live in, we still think the same thing. And that's exactly what we reflect and what we propose in our amendment: expanding the oral health plan, starting with pensioners, with disabilities, chronic patients and chronic diseases, including the periodontal diseases of high-risk groups, not forgetting, of course, the prevention of these pathologies and oral cancer. In addition, we believe that it is necessary to increase the reference centers of surgical oral care. These are our proposals in this amendment, which we hope will be taken into account by the proposed group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Iglesias on the presentation of this initiative. The truth is that I am clear that an ejacism of the magnificent public health system of the Spanish State is oral health, in which we fully agree that all groups, members of the opposition groups, but also members of the Government group. But the truth is, I wasn't able to understand your proposal very well when I read the text of the initiative. Because you say in it that the official dental schools claim that, assuming that social security cannot meet all the demands of the population, there should be a minimum of oral attention to adults who equip it with at least the attention of the child population. It seems that it is assumed that it is not possible to meet all the demand for oral health by the public service, and I want to understand that the schools of dentists ask that attention be co-financed in private concerted clinics, as is done in several autonomous communities of the state in relation to the oral health of children and children. In the resolution, you urge the Galician Board to incorporate health and oral prevention into public health treatments with a cartridge that calls for periodic dental reviews, depending on the case, and that they are funded sealed, cleaned and embassies in the public health system of Galicia to the adult population. I don't know what model you want, if you want the public model that is being used right now in children's care in Galicia, Madrid, Catalonia, Asturias, Canturias, La Rioxa, Valencia and the cities of Ceuta or Melilla, if you want to be financed in private with the PADI models of child care, as in Basque Country, Navarra, Andalusia, Aragon, Balearics, Canary Islands, Stramadura or Murcia, where services with the private sector are concluded with a capital payment for basic assistance and with a payment per act the agreed rate for additional or special treatments, or the mixed model of the two Castles, where there is public attention but that leads to the private realization of certain treatments. This is what she does today at the level of child dentistry in the various autonomous communities, but I suppose, knowing her, Mrs Churches, that you will defend the Greek public model. I give you the fact that you will also be aware of the impossibility of generally extending to the entire population oral health care in an immediate manner. First, because it wouldn't be sustainable and, secondly, because it would have to create a specific network of infrastructure, technology and personnel that it seems obvious that it is now totally impermissible in the short term. There is how you well know and said a basic and common portfolio of services in primary care, there are care, diagnostic and therapeutic activities and there are health promotion, health education and preventive activities directed to oral health care. Basic information, education and training on hygiene and health, treatment of acute processes, extract the moas and pathologies from the temporal joint, wounds in the mouth, biopsy of these wounds, and include oral advice, pharmacological treatment, exemptions, surgical exodonties, lower oral cavity surgery, revision for premaryligin lesions and, as I told you, biopsy. We also talk about the preventive exploration that is in the oral quality portfolio of pregnant women, and basically of preventive and care measures for children's population, according to the programs established by health administrations: the application of fluoride, the fillings, the sealings of cracks and others. In the cases of persons with disabilities who cannot be cared for because, because of their condition and illness, without sedative treatments they cannot be treated, they are referred to care areas where they can be guaranteed their proper realization. We agree, Mrs Churches, that oral health care should be improved and extended to other age groups, but we think it has to be progressive. You know that the main role of attention for boys and girls up to 15 years of age in primary care is prevention. This one needs to be implemented at those ages. Oral care for adults is just about to be preventive to be practically exclusive. Last July 8, 2015, an order from the Ministry of Health was published with an update of the common service portfolio that includes dental implants for oncotoxic patients with oral cavity condition involving loss of teeth directly related to pathology or treatment, and patients with congenital malformations that are undergoing anodontic. We want this regulation to be applied in Galicia as wide as possible from the People's Group. Therefore, in order to improve the oral health of the Galicians and Welsh people, we present an amendment that urges the Galician Union to study the feasibility of extending the coverage of oral health and prevention to new groups of people, progressively increasing the age of care of our boys and girls, as well as restoring the dental parts lost by pathological processes, or by their treatment, which affect the oral cavity. We are waiting for the acceptance of our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u89	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u90	Thank you, President. We, regardless of whether or not we accept amendments, will support this non-law proposal. We're going to support it because, in addition, it's up to this group to walk towards the implantation in the benefit portfolio as much oral health for the general population as can be the provision as regards lenses and hearing aids, which are very important for the whole world, obviously, but especially for older people and children, for which in many cases there are no facilities for economic problems to be able to access these types of needs that are basic, which are not a luxury or a whim. It's important, in addition, given the initiative that brings us here today, because of its involvement, as it has already been said, not only for its own dentition, its own pain, its own infections or oral problems, but also for food. The proponent talked about older people, and in most cases the absence of dental parts is a synonym for risk of malnutrition in many older people, who have more difficulty feeding properly when they are missing or have problems with dental parts. And it's quite common to see him in our midst. But in addition, the relationship that oral cavity diseases have in many cases with other types of diseases, such as heart problems, which in this case would be serious diseases that in some percentages could likely be expected with adequate treatment in this sense. And, therefore, we should observe it as the prevention of a future problem, and in addition to even future spending, in response to health and economic planning. The difficulty is general for the whole population, but it is, above all, for those who have economic problems because of the high cost of private care, which has precisely motivated, as it has been exposed here, the growth of a competitive business of dentistry, in a bubble that was nourished in addition to more economical prices than other types of dental clinics, with credits with important interests that have finally ended, as in some cases that have been exemplified here, exploding in that liberal business bubble in which, in addition, professionals worked under sufficiently precarious conditions as to understand that these businesses should be questioned. We understand I'm not a model to follow. And it looks like that whole bubble probably didn't come up and it didn't explode if we had an adequate public service or at least for most of the care you might need, in dental health, the population. It does not seem healthy that with all this data coverage is practically null – it has been transferred here. We only have a partial childhood coverage, and, in adult people, as it has already been said, little more than extractions, and given the waiting list that there is, it is practically impossible to have to resort to it, because in fact I myself only asked or asked to perform an extraction in the health center the waiting list was from around a year. That is, it depends on every dentist's or dentist's wallet, but the reality is, obviously, they're dealing with other urgent problems before, there's another kind of need before, like the child's wallet, and there's really not enough professionals to meet these needs, which obviously is basically just like saying there's nothing. We understand that the initiative is a good proposal for a start because it addresses the most basic interventions – revisions, seals, cleaning and embassies – and, of course, we would have to walk towards the need even to broaden the need, for example, for dental prostheses, even though it was the most basic model, especially for those older people, who also have food problems. We have warned, however, that the assumption of this measure would obviously need by the Health Council an increase in the means and staff that it should compromise in the event that this measure was approved. So, as I've already moved, we're going to support this non-law proposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u92	Good morning. The Galego Nationalist Block will also support this initiative, and it seems to us that, as on other occasions, the debate has been reached to see the positions and whether there is political will to address this situation, because oral health has a very decisive impact on the quality of life of people. It seems that it is inversely proportional to the importance that many sectors give to good oral health, but what is true is that it affects physical health. You've already spoken here, but it's obvious that it's not just a question that affects only the dental subject, but other kinds of pathologies, such as psychic health, because it improves self-esteem, it improves the chances of social relationships, and it also affects social life, because a healthy, clean mouth, allows for an acceptable social relationship and people to feel well. Of course, we think not to go to the dentist's office is a risk to that oral health and to that health in general. We believe this debate must be addressed because access to oral health services cannot be a luxury that many people cannot afford. And unfortunately, since the beginning of the crisis, different studies have highlighted, they have made manifest, that there is a close relationship between the socio-economic situation of many people and the worsening of that oral health. In the face of a situation of very high income precariousness of thousands of people, they prioritize other kinds of spending, and going to the dentist is going to be left for when most of the time it's something irremediable. According to INE itself, 40 percent of the people who attend dentistry don't reach. That's why it seems to us that in this context the demand for this initiative is met; a historic demand for the increase in the dental service portfolio within the public service portfolio. It's a claim that's not new, but that hasn't just been reflected in that service portfolio. To ensure that the population in general has health care in relation to oral health seems to us to be basic. It is clear that, if priority is to be given, children's population and risk groups must be the priorities, but it is also clear that there is another large population group that does not have such health care. With which, I hope that once again the People's Party will not hide in front of excuses, and that the decision should be made to move forward in this direction. We must move forward with decisive steps, not only with declarations of intent. And, of course, moving forward means making the decision that there must be coverage in public health and that then that decision has to go hand in hand with the allocation of resources so that that political decision becomes a reality. Resources means professionals who are now, of course, scarce, and economic resources. With which, we will support the initiative. We think it is important to give this debate because, if health in general is being one of the major damages of the cuts made by the People's Party, there are certain services, such as what we are dealing with today, which are certainly at least minimal, minimum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the initiative, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u94	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr Centeno, this Member is in favour of public health, as is expected from a left-wing person. Having said this, I think it became clear in my exhibition that I ask for a basic package in public health. I don't know if the exhibition text you received is unclear. I apologize if you didn't make it clear, but I'm clarifying it now, if that's all right. With regard to preventive pasting or not, I would like to say that I believe that it is preventive because it provides for the loss of the part. If we have a wear on our knees, they don't shake our legs, they fix the piece, the knee, for its functionality. We can't forget that the teeth are bones. With regard to the amendments tabled by the People's Party and also to the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, the amendment of the Socialist Party is accepted, and with the People's Party I hope to reach a compromise agreement so that this initiative which all parliamentary groups consider to be so important, so timely, goes on. So I hope that in the negotiations that Mr Centeno and I have reached a compromise, that we will pass on to the Presidency of Parliament. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u95	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the actions to be carried out by the Junta de Galicia in connection with its participation in the management of the integrated state public enterprises in the Welsh naval sector and the demand of the Navantia of the referral of the 2016-2020 Industrial Plan presented in its board of directors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u96	No amendments were tabled. To formulate it has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u97	Thank you, President. "I find myself here today, ladies and gentlemen, appealing to all of you to make this House a firm and determined commitment to create the legal mechanisms relevant to the recognition of the shipbuilding sector as a strategic sector – which is – to the economy of our community. And I'm here with the support and strength that can transmit the 18,600 signatures obtained; 18,600 signatures that at 82% were obtained without leaving Ferrol's creek. A number of support that makes it manifest and without the slightest doubt the feeling of an entire people towards trying to recover an activity for the Fene yard, which was their reason for being as a people and which, in addition, and over the years, has always been considered and regarded as the fundamental activity for the development and the future for our three beaks" – extracted from the Parliamentary Sessions Journal of December 28, 2009 –. Indeed, these were the words, the extract of the words of the Commission promoting the Law on the Promotion of the Naval Sector. Of all this articulation, on repeated occasions the opposition groups of this House, and in particular the Nationalist Block Galego, we have been extracting parts and articles in which, through non-law proposals, we debate again what was already adopted in this Law on the promotion of the shipbuilding sector. What I really wanted to make this law manifest is the conversions, the constant conversions, suffered by the Galician naval sector and, in particular, its public sector, by Navantia. We have spoken enough, on countless occasions, both in the Committee on Industry and in the Chamber, about the situation in the shipbuilding sector. Even yesterday, when the Industry Councillor talked about innovation, about aeronautical research, about drones, we reminded him that he has a smoldering sector and that in these two Feijó laws, just what he did was to rub more. Recently there were representatives of the IGC in Parliament to explain to us the situation of the Ferrol River; also of the Vigo River, even this week. How can we, with data in hand, talk about an emergency situation, talk about there's no workload? We know about the fleet. We will speak this afternoon even of these famous fleets, both in Ferrol and Vigo. But the reality is that today there is almost no workload and from summer onwards there will be no workload in Navantia. The data of the workers themselves is clear: Navantia Ferrol, 300 people in template; 113 people over 60 years old. This is a data that I think should make us recapitulate. Fene, 120. Here, too, we've been debating about the marine windmill saying that it's not the solution, that that's not going to be the solution to having workload. That's why the approach of this initiative today is almost minimal: the first one, to comply with Article 4(1) of the Galician Naval Sector Act, so that the Galician Union negotiates with the State its participation in the management of state-owned companies integrated into the Galician naval sector, which, by its nature, may be transferable. Why do we consider this point of articulate so important? Because on repeated occasions we have already brought it to the House and we have already asked which actions were taken, and we hope that it will finally be the Government of the State now or within a few months that assumes the necessary participation of the Government of Greece where decisions are made on the workload; or, for example, on the second point of this initiative, on possible industrial plans or possible industrial reports or possibly possible, really, hiding restructuring plans. Because, as soon as we know of the situation, the company's interest is to keep a staff of people linked to engineering or design and to subcontract auxiliary companies, essentially construction, which would really be a complete and absolute dismantling of the Navantia staff paintings, which, as we said before, are already clearly small. In fact, in the very presentation of this commission promoting the Law of the Naval Sector they recalled the moment when 11,000 workers existed. They were already talking about 1,000 and we are now talking about 500; that is, we are almost talking about the total loss of workers in the company, which means for one of the regions with the highest unemployment rate throughout Europe, social emergencies and problems resulting from the lack of employment. So when we heard about that by the aerospace yesterday, we said, "Why didn't you think something that was actually working, that it was also related to job creation, the creation of auxiliary companies and the creation of R+D+i?" The situation of auxiliary companies is also regrettable. They are foreign companies, companies outside of Galicia, which are getting higher recruitment volume. We will now discuss an initiative in this regard also in Commission 6 because we believe that the Greek auxiliary companies should be present, as they have so far had in Navantia, and they are not. Look, ladies and gentlemen, did the Government really have no interest in participating in the board of directors during these seven years, or did Navantia really not have any interest in participating? What about the oil tankers? Why didn't you fight for the oil tankers, for not being present in that board of directors? You give him the head, Mr. Tellado, but it would be nice if he explained to us why he didn't fight for the oil tankers. Why did only that fleet try to hide there was a workload? The legislation is closed soon. The balance in Mr. Feijóo's naval sector is bad, it's absolutely bad! These are two missing legislatures, because, apart from all Pemex's ads, what we talked about yesterday – and it's good that we remember because memory is very important – the reality is that, delivered to the fleets, the workload remains none, and not just that, but that auxiliary companies are thrown into closure. And, as I said before, in the south, private companies are either in the ERE of extinction or in the Permanent ERE of extinction, and Navantia is what you're designing is a report, a plan for restructuring, preliminating or eliminating many jobs. BNG is totally opposed to the fact that there is a new restructuring in the public sector of the naval; it is radically opposed; it considers that the obligation, now that the veto is lifted, is civil construction, civil construction in Navantia. We don't know any plans for the future, we don't know what the Government's proposals are; in fact, we've checked very often the advisor's own appearance on the Galician naval sector in July 2014, and there he literally committed himself to the work load, to which there was funding for the ship, to which there was funding for the auxiliary industries and to which there was training for the workers. Well, none of the commitments that have been made in this House in June 2014 have been completed: there is no such financing – and we are talking about the private sector, but we have several cases in Vigo where there is no such financing, and the tax lease is not working – and there is no funding for auxiliary industries, nor is there any support for these auxiliary industries that give work to most of the sector, nor is there adequate training for workers – that, in most cases, when they are qualified and are new, as the unions explain, they are emigranting, they are marching outside Galicia, with all the accumulated talent that it means – there is no workload. The fleets are over, and what's next? What's the situation in Navantia? Today we are waiting for an agreement: that you can finally participate from the Government of Greece in the board of directors and that you know exactly what Navantia's proposals are for the future of 2016 to 2020 in this public naval sector. It's very important, not just for Ferrol's laugh, but as we spoke yesterday about the aerospace for all of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u99	The economic situation that Navantia is experiencing and the aging of its staff has led the company's management to announce an industrial plan for the period 2016-2020 with a staff resurgence program. As a public enterprise, its maximums are appointed by the Government, and although the board of directors of public shipyards could immediately open a negotiating table with the unions, the final decision on any measure has to be taken on the public yards and needs the Government's support, which is currently in office. It is necessary for Navantia to present the announced plan for the future to clear pending issues affecting the staff. The current Navantia charges in Galicia generate employment and occupation in a bar as needed as Ferrolterra, but it's not comparable to the activity that generates shipbuilding, which includes a large number of guilds. In addition to clarifying what the future of the various centres in Galicia and Andalusia will be, you must explain how you will respond to the need for the reinvigoration of the staff paintings, which affects the public naval, as Mrs. Adán has already said. At the Fene yard at the moment, 48.83 % of the staff board is over 60 years old. So it's important to have this plan to make a new staff recruitment plan that replaces these staff who are already over 60 years old, and therefore a training and recycling plan, which completely abandoned Navantia in Fene, when before there was a naval school in Navantia that was going to form the next workers. We've been without that training for many years, and we've therefore faced a vacuum. Since the first trimester of the year, Navantia has made repairs in the ferrola river on 14 merchant ships, 9 of which were gasists. About to hand over the fleet for Pemex and the BAM's keel post, the Ferrolterra naval employs only 700 workers from the auxiliary companies. This figure has to be added to it 400 subcontract jobs, which take care of the repairs division works, and 50 that are working on building wind components. That great project that was going to be Ferrolterra's salvation results in 50 contracts. That's the success of Mr. Feijóo and his bet on converting the naval into something else. Together, they add 1,600 auxiliary workers, less than half of those who had occupation on Ferrol and Fene plants, when they still had orders for the manufacture of ships. In the face of the unemployment situation in the district of Ferrolterra and the urgent need to revitalize the Italian public naval sector, it is incomprehensible that the Union has no longer negotiated with the State its participation in the management of state public enterprises, integrated into the naval sector of Galicia, as required by the initiative submitted by the BNG, as well as that it has not called on Navantia to review the 2016-2020 plan, presented before its board of directors. The Greek Government should lead the claim of an industrial plan for the public naval that guarantees the workload in shipbuilding for Galician shipyards and the investments necessary to guarantee their future. Far away from this, the only thing we can observe at the Junta is a total neglect of the naval sector and a bet for sinking the Welsh public naval sector, essentially the Fene shipyard, and for keeping the Ferrol yard like a secondary yard to the shipyards in Andalusia, in Cadiz. This gives us a clear example every time in this Parliament the Government of the People's Party and the group that supports it voted against the construction of the Ferrol floating dam, and even voted against the construction of a dry dam, which seems, as it is heard, that Navantia now introduces this plan. We therefore urge the People's Party to vote in favour of this initiative, even though it is only to maintain a minimum dignity of a government that abandons the productive sectors and which is now dedicated, as it always does in the campaign, to sell smoke and sell drones, which is not well known for what they will end up being. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u101	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. There are four fundamental elements that mark the disastrous course of the naval sector in Galicia, mainly the public sector, and in particular Navantia. The first of them is the organizational disaster of the leadership established in Navantia, with two fundamental axes: an inexperienced presidency, a president who comes from the Prisa group and who therefore has no experience or knowledge in all that can be called today the know-how, which, of course, is having a regrettable impact on Navantia's operation and operation; and, secondly, within this very axis of the organizational disaster, a change in the organizational and functional structure, imposed, improvised and inaccurate, so that it is uncontextualized to the reality and history of shipyards. Secondly, another important element: a bad trade and contract policy, the one played by the Government of Greece, ignoring the situation of natural trading partners, such as Brazil, Venezuela or Argentina, which in recent years have renewed their fleets and those who, on the basis of irresponsible political fundamentalism, have given them back, prioritising other trading partners; with which, important contracts have been excluded. The lack of political pulse, political weight, by the governments of the People's Party is evident, and the performance of the Ministry of Economics and also of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this field is evident. The German Government, on the other hand, simply lit up by his absence. A third key aspect is the absolute abandonment of staff paintings. We have a majority of workers who have been unemployed for years, almost seven years without work, with an average age in the railway yards that reaches almost 60 years, and, in the aspect of training, we have an obvious abandonment by the German Government. I reviewed the offers of vocational training, of FP, and there are no specific modules for the ship in Ferrolterra. The naval sector not only needs engineers, it needs welders, rivals... as the ship workers move us, they no longer have experienced boots, not only, of course, due to the absence of these boots, but also because most of them have already retired. That's reality, a reality that can only be justified from the point of view that what is expected is to be dismantled, since you are not betting on the renewal of staff and templates. Fourthly, a disastrous financial situation. The situation in Navantia is almost a financial breakdown; therefore, public funding for this strategic sector must be addressed for our country. And all this, all these elements, where do they have to reverse? We have drones, but we have no light... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u102	A technical flaw. Wait a minute, Mr. Vázquez, we'll make up for your time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u103	Well, often the plenary doesn't have much light, but today it seems less. So stop the president, according to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u104	Quiet, we're not in the ICU at the hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u105	Mr. Vázquez, if you like, you can resume, because I think that now, even if it's half light, we can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u106	Well, at AGE, we're used to information blackouts, so those that have to do with the light don't affect us, because we're going to do the intervention just for the sake of the matter, which we're concerned about right now, which is the naval sector. We were talking about four fundamental components that marked the disastrous course of the Welsh naval: one was the organizational disaster produced by a presidency and absolutely inexperienced and inefficient leadership frameworks; one commercial policy and disastrous contracts; the absolute abandonment of staff paintings, mainly in terms of the average age of workers, who reach almost 60 years, and also with the formative aspect, especially in terms of engineering, but also in terms of vocational training, which has to do with average titrations; and an agonical financial situation on the part of Navantia. All these reasons – we said – justified the need for the establishment of an industrial plan in a sector that we consider fundamentally strategic for Galicia by its added value, by its impact on R & D+i, but also, fundamentally, by its ability to generate employment in Galicia. It's a situation in which, of course, as we all know, data in Ferrolterra tells us about a region that reaches almost 30% of unemployment and therefore lives in an agony context. Last March, in the Congress of Deputies, on a proposal from En Marea, it was approved, with the support of all groups, an industrial plan and an investment plan in the naval sector of Navantia. We therefore believe that the Greek Government has the responsibility to face up to this sector, despite having voted against all these years, to support a dry dam or even this industrial plan. And, therefore, we believe that the German Government must first involve itself in ensuring that the title and public management of the Greek shipyards are guaranteed; secondly, in making a plan to renew the templates, a comprehensive training plan for the workers; in influencing that the business lines are strengthened also in the civil sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u108	... fundamental to the survival of shipyards; in the creation of a research and innovation hub in contact with the university – here it is, not in the case of drones, where it is purely smoke – in a renewal of the management frameworks; and in a plan, of course, of financing that guarantees the sustainability of public yards. These are the challenges of a truly strategic sector and what Galicia is a world leader and has the potential to be a world leader, and not in other sectors where, of course, the German Government wants to do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u110	...a propaganda exercise. So we're going to support this initiative, as it can't be any other way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will support this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. Interpreting Wednesday morning is always a self-esteem exercise. I'm sorry again, after listening to the president, a mixture of Finland, Holland and some other state with shipyards. I've been looking for unemployment rates in Helsinki, Hamburg, Rotterdam and Le Havre, which are the four most important shipyards in Western Europe -- Mr. Trenor, if you want to intervene, you can compete with Mr. Tellado in the naval industry spokesman -- and it's below 5% in all of them. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] The truth is, given that in Ferrol we are at 29.7%, because, well, there seems to be some problem. Mr Feijóo actually spoke of Galicia from this mythical Galicia – I don't know if Breogán's daughter, but, of course, myth – and he forgot some things. It has been forgotten that we have per capita income at 80% of the EU average at 28 – I insist, at 28 – that means Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia... and we do not talk about counting only the countries of ancient Western Europe. And if we go down to Ferrol and Ferrolterra – I know that the inheritance Mr. Rajoy received in 2011 from Zapatero's governments was absolutely dramatic and that Mr. Rajoy's magnificent management addressed this course in a almost miraculous way – I want to give some data. Those in industry in the fourth quarter of 2011 in Ferrol were 5,000; in the fourth quarter of 2015, 2,200 – I insist, I quote the source because I don't know whether it was cosmetic or any other industrial product, but in any case EPA: 5,000, 2,200 –; a fall in the last four years of 56% in the industrial occupation of Ferrol – with floats, without floats, with Australian frigates, from Saudi Arabia, with the ship BAM, the other, the jackets... – with all this: 5,000, 2,200. The activity rate in the same period decreased by 4 points, the employment rate by 7 points, and the unemployment rate rose by 8 points – from 19.4 to 27.9–. I insist, the four years of Rajoy the Magno so Alejandro Magno. Employees in the public sector fell by 40% in Ferrol in the same period – taking into account that Navantia employees are included there; in the private sector, directly related to naval assistants, by 17%. It is true that the inheritance received in 2011 was not good and it is true that the socio-demographic and labor landscape of Ferrol at this time is absolutely dramatic. The scenario has three main actors: it has Navantia, which is silent, I suppose that by a commercial strategy – I think politics, of political prudence, in this case –, from Madrid, shut up; the workers, who see an objective fact – that is, of course, what EPA says, from 5,000 people in the industry to 2,200 –... every time the class unions come to interview the Socialist Group – imaginous as with the other opposition groups – because we count exactly this data, it leads to a dozen below. And then Xunta de Galicia, he's the third actor, that's the advertising and propaganda department. So, we have reality, silence and theatre, which I think, as a strategic composition, is not bad. Actually, there's an end to a fleet. I want to remember the publicity and propaganda that brought this fleet, because it's true that now we've moved on to the drone phase, we've moved on to the future plane, after the future naval; but I want to remember Pemex's smaller ships, the base of Langosteira... the dose of advertising and propaganda. And in view of this, People's Party gentlemen – and by no means speaking of the floating dike, which literally evaluated on that magical stage – I insist, we have absolutely embarrassing unemployment data. And I say that so I don't have to tell Mr. Tellado, I find myself indifferent in terms of speech... Of course, yes, no; indifferent no, I think it's a drama: 30% of unemployment in Porto Real – I think it's a drama – but I'm talking about 29.7% of unemployment in Ferrol. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u114	I think you should think about it. And with regard to the initiative, I insist on supporting it. We believe that, indeed, this silence in Navantia should be compensated for a proactive presence of the Self-Government, because it is true that there are issues of external marketing, of innovation, which need critical mass; but it is true that no one knows the ground on which economic activity is developing as the Administration that is closest to that land. It's absolutely obvious. And, by the way, to demand the Industrial Plan, which seems to me to be almost bulky. It's just that like a public company, it's going to squat citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u116	...the development plan that is strategic in a region of more than 150,000 people? Or there's plan B that you don't want to tell, and there's silence, or if I don't want the spokespersons of the People's Party or the Industry Councillor to tell you about it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u117	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. I have the feeling that Wednesdays, after the President's control session, when it comes to intervening with Mr. Abel Losada, it's about the syndrome or the former spokesman or the Tertullian, which is to come here to comment on the steam that the president gave to the voices of the opposition groups. I, in fact, understand that it's a question that you want to continue the subject. [[Applause]] Look, you're actually talking about the 29% Ferrol unemployment rate. Look, you said they were gonna fix it. With that motto, they presented themselves to the municipal elections, and Mrs. Sestayo rules with Mr. Jorge Suárez. They were going to fix the problem of unemployment, and the truth is, what we see is that they haven't created a single job at the moment. The only job in danger seems to be Mrs. Sestayo's job, which I think the mayor wants to stop. So talking about employment from the Socialist Party is, of course, curious. Look, I don't know if you know, Mr. Losada, this painting that's in a Ferrol building in a very central street – I won't ask you which street, you don't have to know because it's not from Ferrol. It's a painting that goes back to the last conversion, which you did in 2004, in December 2004... "1,400 jobs less; thanks to UGT and Workers' Commissions." [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u119	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u120	For "thank you" it is clear that it is not a popular party painting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u121	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u122	...is a painting made from the bands of groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u123	Silence! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet; if not, this goes far. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u124	The problem is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u125	No, don't go on. Mr. Tellado, until there's silence... Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u126	No, the problem is that time runs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u127	I'll make it hard on you. Silence! Silence! Quiet, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u128	I didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u129	Thank you, you can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u130	I haven't done it, she's over ten years old. But it's the graphic exhibition, in a very central street of Ferrol, of the drama of unemployment that was generated in the naval sector as long as the Socialist Party ruled. All the conversions in the naval sector have the label of the Socialist Party, that's a reality. But I'm not here today to talk about the Socialist Party, I'm here to talk about an initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block. In June 2010, this Parliament actually passed the Galician Naval Sector Act, the result of a popular legislative initiative under the conviction – which I believe we all share, except the Socialist Party – that the naval sector is a strategic sector for Galicia. And we've maintained that defense of the naval sector. No one escapes the fact that the naval sector has indeed experienced serious difficulties in recent years as a result of two facts: one, the approval of a conversion in 2004, in December 2004, by the Socialist Government, and the inaction, inactivity, of a government that kept the rail yards of Ferrol with zero contracts between 2008 and 2011. As Mrs Adam said, the law actually envisages the negotiation between the Galician Union and the Government of Spain to participate in the management of public shipyards. It is not a simple matter, because entering the Navantia Board of Directors is also supposed to participate in the shareholdership and assume responsibilities of all kinds, and therefore it is not a simple issue, especially when the company does it is to accumulate losses – the ones of the last year are 160 million euros –. So that decision would be accompanied by an assumption of responsibilities over those red numbers. But we keep what we approved here unanimously. We maintain that the Galician Union has to negotiate the entry into management of Galician public shipyards. Therefore, we are in favour of the initiative presented by the Galician Nationalist Block. With regard to the second question, I have to say that today there is no approved plan, no industrial plan for the future 2016-2020 for the yards, and therefore we understand that Navantia cannot be asked to send us a document that is not approved. So if Mrs Adam understands that the expression of that point can be changed to request all the documentation relating to those future plans that handle Navantia, but not a plan that has not really been approved, we would also be willing to approve that second question. And, of course, I see the obligation to remind the Socialist Party that they have left zero contracts in the last years of the Socialist Government in the Ferrol River, that today there is a fleet that you have tried torpedo everything they could and that it is a fleet that looks like a sea pussy to you, but that fleet has given a million hours of workload and has given work to many families. So that's a reality, it's a billing of 175 million euros. And behind the fleet came the BAM, ship of maritime action, the first ship commissioned by the Spanish Navy since 2008. You have ruled from 2004 until 2011, how many ships have you charged the Spanish Navy at that time to the shipyards of the Ferrol River – an eminently military shipyard? Zero, none. They could charge ships, they could charge jobs. We charge a small boat, indeed, and a BAM, but we charge a ship at the worst economic moment in our country. And there are more contracts, the engineering contract and design of an LHD for the Turkish Navy. Today, repairs have full occupation in the Ferrol River. Today the main Navantia template rounds a 70% occupation. And there are assistants working in Navantia. Would we like to have more work to do? Of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u132	...but I can't admit the demagogy that is made from the AGE group. Look, last week we discussed a Joint Group initiative on asking the Government of Spain not to hire ships, not to allow weapons to be sold to Saudi Arabia. Look, you know there's a contract to hire five ships for the Saudi Navy, we're talking about five years' work for more than 2,000 workers. You, who say you're worried about the naval sector, gentlemen of AGE, voted against Spain selling weapons to Saudi Arabia. A warship is a weapon, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u134	That's what we know to do on the railing yards of Ferrol. So you don't come here with positions of political cynicism, because you ask for a lot of plans, but, whenever you talk about plans...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u135	Finish. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u136	...they're talking about prejudgment and... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u138	...reconversions. We want workload...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u139	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u140	...and we've always been, along with the BNG, against all the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u141	Finish, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u142	...ship conversions. So we're going to vote in favour of this initiative, if the lady...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u144	...Adán allows that little change in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u145	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u146	Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u147	Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u148	First, whenever we talk about the Ferrol naval, we have this moment of love/hate between the PP and the Socialist Party, or of hate/love. I don't know who swept the house less, but the case is that it didn't get swept away, because there's no workload and the future is absolutely uncertain about the ship. On construction, I think it's true that the veto to civil construction was a penalty to something that was known to be done in the Ferrol River, and when you write down the history of what happened to the Welsh naval sector, you'll have to analyze for the often, I don't know whether to ask for responsibilities, but for at least there's knowledge of what the dismantling of a sector that was absolutely priority. There you are, in that sort of loop or sandwich, entering, on the one hand, the great shipyards of Asia, who go down working hours, and technology, which, as Mr. Losada said, is now in northern Europe. And so we're in a kind of nobody's land about civil construction, about civilian construction that could be done. You draw here painted... well, to me, I like graphitis, really, I have to recognize it, but we can also get headlines of all kinds here: "PP senators vote against the floating dike," "The board undertakes to fund the floating dike"... is that there are so many non-compliances, so many non-compliances, in so many places, and there is so much to review about when you talk about repairs-loading work that you imagined if you had the floating dike; imagine what the float dike would mean to Ferrol's comarca, something that, of course, is already completely discarded, already not even talking about it. Only – it is true – the workers and the unions are talking about the floating dam, and in particular the union that talks about the floating dam is essentially the IGC. We understand that there is no such industrial plan, that there are reports and that there are documents about the so-called Industrial Plan, which we understand is a restructuring plan. We believe that the German Parliament, and above all the territory of Ferrol, citizenship, must know these reports and which are the true objectives of Navantia by 2020. And depending on that, we're going to facilitate that transaction that you're proposing here in your voice. We will accept it because we want transparency. We want you to belong to that Governing Council, which does not necessarily expect to assume debts, but to be able to have responsibilities, to have real negotiating capacity. Because until now the Government of Greece – with all due respect – has been a constant guest of stone in Navantia, while not so the Board of Andalusia – and we are going to talk again about Andalusia – that if you have tried very hard to achieve workload, also successfully, even if not, let's say, all the positive that you should. We'll accept that transaction. It's probably not the last time we talk about the ship in Galicia, but we hope that at some point we can see the Government of Greece exercising as such at the Navantia Board of Directors, as the law marks, by the way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey on refugees
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u150	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the proposal you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u151	Very good day again. On 18 March the Member States of the European Union finally concluded their misplan for refugees arriving in the territory of the European Union. A plan that is nothing but deportation, expulsion from Turkey, all the people who are and have arrived in Greece. And an agreement signed so that all refugees arriving in Greece will be deported from the end of March. The European Union has concluded an agreement with Turkey to expel refugees and empty the camps of the island of Lesbos, the island of Quios, Cos, Samos and Leros, and will return these thousands to Turkey. The strategy that a country outside the European Union does the dirty work and expels foreign citizens from the sacrosanct European soil, of course, is not new, it has been doing it for some time with Morocco; an agreement by which Spain, the European Union, offers Morocco benefits, political support, in exchange for avoiding refugees arriving in that country, crossing the border, Ceuta, Melilla or the Strait of Gibraltar; returns from the refugee group, migrants to Melilla, banned by international law, and we have to denounce again that the Government of the People's Party on functions has been carried out no longer. For the BNG this agreement shows the hypocrisy of a European Union that offers Turkey counter-shared to assume the role of gendarme, the role of capon, both in the control of the flows of people at sea borders with Greece and the Aegean Sea and in the denial of the right of asylum to thousands of people. What does Turkey get in return? Well, reactivating accession negotiations to the European Union, eliminating the visa requirement for Turkish citizens and citizens to move around the European Union and the commitment to receive up to EUR 6,000 until 2018 in exchange for health, infrastructure and education projects. Today, with this initiative, we want to denounce a European Union which under this agreement violates international law, the Charter of the United Nations, the right of asylum, the convergence of Geneva; it completely violates everything, it violates the minimum decency. A European union that treats as a threat to human beings who only commit the terrible crime of fleeing from hunger, poverty, war and persecution. We also denounce that deportations, whether individual or collective, are contrary to international legislation, which establishes that people must be returned to a safe country. And considering Turkey a safe third country is a real insult, it's a joke of taste. Turkey systematically violates human rights, Turkey has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights thousands of times. The Erdogan Government violates fundamental rights such as trade union freedom, labour law, press freedom or freedom of expression; it systematically commits, it is committing, the extermination of the Kurdish people. To this we must add that the refugees who are now arriving in Europe, Greece, are not new refugees who have just fled Syria, but in their vast majority are refugees who have already escaped Turkey. That's where the drama is. An agreement is signed to return refugees, to expel refugees from Turkey, which in a vast majority have already fled Turkey, especially from the Kurdish areas, which escape the killing of the ISIS group or escape the attacks of the Turkish army itself, which seeks to liquidate the resistance of the Kurdish people. Of course, it is scandalous that Turkey is considered to be a safe third country where it will be expelled, where it is being expelled, men and women; a Turkey that is making a cap, a safe zone, which is to empty of inhabitants – fundamentally Kurdish – that area. The BNG is outraged by the capitalist European Union's response to the service of oligarchy, the service of the great capital, which makes it clear that its main concern is not to solve the humanitarian drama, nor much less is to solve the social, economic or political problems that are at the root of this tragedy of refugee men and women, but rather that the European Union's main concern is to shield itself from leaving them out. Of course, a European Union that is acting very rapidly to curb the arrival of refugees and that is not putting any attempt at remedying the problems that force them to flee. That is why we are presenting this initiative which, first of all, demands that this Parliament, the Galician Parliament, rejects the agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey, and urges the German Government to show its willingness both to welcome refugees and to allocate as much resources as possible to meet their needs. We need this Parliament to say loud and clear that it is against this inhuman, xenophobic agreement and that it certainly does not solve any of the problems. We also call on the Galician Parliament to urge the German Government to demand that the Spanish Government be totally opposed to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which is totally contrary. And that means that if you make an amendment for signing that agreement and contributing to an effective humanitarian aid program, because right now it's a real drama what thousands of people are living. The conditions of the men and women who are sheltered in Greece are a condition at this time of arrest, of detained persons; they are no longer considered as refugees; they are detained persons, they have restrictions on freedom, they have a situation of precariousness, of degradation of their conditions of hygiene, of roof, of food, and where more than 50 percent of the people who are there are women and children. We therefore find it urgent to contribute to an effective humanitarian aid program. And then what we demand is to carry out all the necessary actions to ensure that EU Member States accept asylum applications without applying restrictive selection criteria, and ensure safe and legal routes for the displacement of persons in need of international protection. Because within these agreements Turkey undertakes to address new travel routes to Europe, and this cowardly European Union, which fears an increase in refugees from Libya, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, wants to cut them off and makes Turkey stoppages, so they need to be allowed to create legal routes and safe routes. And, of course, what we are calling for on this initiative is the need for the European Union to make a radical and urgent change in the labelling policies by others of helping and welcoming refugees. We demand that these policies cease to be implemented and supported by imperialist policies, by interference and military intervention, because these policies are those behind this situation; that the Spanish Government in the European Union defend these policies and also put them into practice; that all foreign military forces from the countries of the Middle East and North Africa; that they respect the sovereignty of the people and advocate for the political and peaceful resolution of the conflicts; that they implement a policy of internationalist solidarity and not anti-imperialist actions. We demand a no to war, we demand a no to the interference and not to the sovereignty of the people. We therefore demand dignity for the refugees and demand a complete change in the policies of the European Union, which ceases to act on the dictates of the U.S. Gendarme and radically change those policies of interference. We demand that we end the arms policy, which considers the sale of weapons as a means and as an economic system to get out of the crisis. Because Europe continues to sell weapons to Israel, Europe continues to sell weapons to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait; Europe and the Spanish State continue to sell weapons to those responsible for this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u153	We demand that refugees be immediately cared for, that they be given an answer to their needs, that they be allowed safe routes. And, above all, we demand another policy that is not a policy of demagogy to say, "What a pity these refugees give us!", more than being complicit and responsible for the causes that cause this dramatic situation of the refugees. Waiting for the support of the House groups, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u155	Thank you, President. Again, good morning. From the Joint Group we will support this non-law proposal to try to find urgent solutions to this tragedy and this humanitarian crisis. I repeat again, as I said in the previous plenary session, that we live in a globalization of indifference. And it's funny how these days we're talking about the scandal of Panama's papers, we see that there are no borders for the capital, but there are borders for those currents of human beings who seek refuge. Our rejection of the agreement with Turkey, where we see that Europe is mobilized to return refugees to Turkey and activate relocations directly from Turkish territory. What our country supports, too, right? The European Union and its member states are responsible for agreeing on the expulsion of persons, were unable to articulate safe routes for refugees, failed to fulfil the commitment to resettlement or relocation acquired, compliance with international conventions and European directives and regulations on shelter and asylum, respect for human rights at the borders and protection of persons, especially children and most vulnerable collectives. It's proven that the closure of borders not only prevents the passage of people, but is a direct cause of deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean, and feeds the mafia and increases vulnerability. And now we also learn about the events in Bulgaria, where there are groups called volunteer patrols that operate on the border. It's very recent that at first he was encouraged by the country's prime minister and the border police, and they are presented as hunting immigrants. And what I'm talking about is not a game, it's the cruel reality. First, they looked elsewhere while drowning for thousands in the sea, then gathered them into a fence, then shot at them when they wanted to cross it, and now they found them. The aggressions suffered last Sunday at the camp standing at the foot of the border between Greece and Macedonia of people seeking refuge by Macedonian military forces, this is a scandal. In fact, it was denounced by UNHCR, which is the UN agency, criticizing the use of tear gas against the most vulnerable victims, which are children and children, and rubber balls, where 300 wounded were registered. And the NGOs, who are the answer to the eaves and the responsibilities that should have all administrations and all states that don't meet, will march around gradually. And the ironies of life, right? At this point, humanitarian aid is coming with basic products and essential foods, which cannot be shared to this whole group of refugees because there is no logistics to make such a distribution. But here in the Spanish state, as we've said before, things happen too. It seems that administrations and the media aren't aware or don't want to hear, but in the state itself, like, for example, in the capital, there are refugees, even though they don't have this status. In 2015, where there were 14,600 asylum applications, despite the shameful figures we know, nothing was done. And since last fall there have been thousands of people who passed through Madrid stations trying to make their way and looking out north of Europe. Many of these people tried to stay and others even came back. Here we see – as I said earlier – that only NGOs are being assisted by the first aid, when it would be the State administration itself to which this kind of work should be done. And now yes, of course, we're talking about the scandal that presents the fences and the extreme situation on the other side of the Mediterranean, and we're not talking about what happens on the southern border. The reception system is scarce, it is insufficient, it is inefficient in time and in achieving objectives: integration and social integration. It's a lot of families who have tremendous difficulties in accessing a home and a job that guarantees them at least one way to get ahead in the Spanish state. Helping these people is not done and not done. The only thing you do is sometimes what you're doing right now with those people who are confined to Greece and Turkey, which is the first humanitarian aid. Refugees and refugees in the second phase need continued support over time, helping to build a future here, beyond centres of care for refugees or in situations of charity. So we understand that the proposal that brings us here today, the BNG, is a very urgent step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u157	Good morning to all and to all. The initiative is to support it logically, because we have been working for a long time, denouncing the situation of the rights of refugees, but also of immigrants throughout Europe since at least the year 2000, when Europe fortifies itself, and what is happening to people who have been sheltered for five years, since the war in Syria is five years old and since then has always been taking place an exodus of refugees who have been neglected. The Treaty on European Union with Turkey is a criminal treaty, it is an illegal treaty, and we must say so. But it is not simply said by the Alternative Glaga de Left, it also says the recent Cear report drawn up after a field mission on the island of Lesbos and Athens between 17 and 23 March 2016, where they found a difference between what had happened before 18 March and what happened just after 18 March when we signed that treaty – we repeat – criminal. The situation on the island of Lesbos, where 500,000 people arrived from Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan, was already chaotic and difficult before March 18. It must be said that they left, above all, Ayvacik, in Turkey, where there were eight improvised camps and that boats were hired towards Lesbos, especially through what are called "trabandist routes", because, since there are no legal and safe routes on the part of the European Union, people are forced to access the island of Lesbos, Greece and other areas by contracting those uses of smugglers, who profit from the despair of people to get to a safe place. There were eight improvised camps, with the agreement 1,300 refugees were arrested and transferred to the center of admission and return of immigrants, with an uncertain destination for all of them. There are twenty-two refugee camps in Turkey. Only 10% of the refugees are in those camps, the rest are in urban contours, in the disappearance and in the most absolute deprotection. Before the agreement there were serious problems, there was no information, there was discrimination by nationality, they did not know in absolute form of any of the four options that can be offered to them: asylum in Greece, relocation in Europe – especially in Spain –, family reunification, return and expulsion; there are four programmes... Well, there is no record – warns CEAR – that legal assistance is offered. So there was no procedural guarantee for these people. And we spoke before March 18th, and there were serious problems with unaccompanied minors. In fact, it is known that after the agreement signed on 18 March, 170 minors are arrested, detained, unaccompanied minors, in Moria's detention camp. What used to be an improvised refugee camp, but it was open-minded, became a detention camp, because there is no ambulatory freedom and there is police and military control. So it's clear that the conditions were already bad and with agreement the conditions are much worse. Because what is a humanitarian concept, which is asylum, which is what allows you to move freely to a safe country, to seek asylum and protection in a safe country, a right already enshrined in 1948, initialled in 1951, is of course being breached. There's absolute militarization of what should be a humanitarian problem; a humanitarian issue because it's militarized, it's secured. And Cear, what do you say? I will simply recover what CEAR says in its report: What is a violation of the EU-Turkey agreement? The collective expulsions expressly prohibited in Article 4 of Protocol 4 to the European Convention on Human Rights; the principle of non-refoulement of Article 33 of the Geneva Convention, which states that no one can be returned to a country where his life is in danger. Turkey is not a safe country because it violates human rights, but not only that, but Turkey returns to other countries people who are refugees, does it to Syria and does it to other countries. For example, people have been deported to Kabul, where they are in danger because the Taliban shoot. Any expulsion from a foreign country requires legal guarantees in accordance with Articles 12 and 13 of the Return Directive, and they all fail. Turkey is not a safe country – we repeat – and does not guarantee the principle of not returning refugees. It violates the principle of non-discrimination by country of origin, because it turns out that only Syrian people are now interested, but all the other people who have escaped from war countries are also sheltered and cannot be treated as criminals, which is what is happening today. And there are no minimum standards for sheltering even in Greece, as the European Court of Human Rights itself recognized in 2011. We repeat: we are faced with a criminal treaty, a treaty that violates all the international conventions that we have given ourselves after what we wanted to erase from our minds, which was World War II, genocide and all that was suffered by Spanish Republican refugees, Jewish refugees, etc. We wanted to, but we fell back into that stone, and the Spanish state was participating, signing a criminal treaty. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u159	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the morning the President of the Board, who is lately very funny, questioned Mr. Jorquera's documentary sources, and in the debate of the motion not of previous law Mr. Tellado made an important qualitative leap and brought as documentary sources graffiti painted in the valleys of Ferrol. It's a qualitative leap that comes very well at what we're debating today, because the fences in our country's history, many years ago, played a key role. They were the place where barbarism shot, deprived many people of their lives, many thousands of people, because they thought differently, because they were illustrated, because they freely engaged in political organizations or trade unions that did not like those who were in front of them directing firing squads. And that led to hundreds of thousands of people coming out of our country, the so-called Republican exile. So, with very fat stroke, but that over the next decades they have continued to add up and sum up people who, as they do today in many countries in the world, get to the streets, get to the sea, throw all that their families have, sometimes their children. And it turns out that in civilized Europe, in our model of what we had so much assumed, what they find are fences, wired, when not worse. The agreement that has been reached in Europe is a disgrace, we have already discussed it here in the past. This Parliament has already approved, both in committee and in plenary, unanimously, various agreements in which the Government is asked that both in the European Union and in its own policies take into account our own history and remember the fences not only to copy the graffiti, but also the role they played in our history and those that fell there, and to make some historical memory. Because it is not enough to go to Europe simply to say amen, to be a guest of stone, to violate the agreements of the Courts of the Spanish Parliament and to go there to bless and help solve a problem of German internal policy, simply because it plays and because we are well guided. By the way, German domestic politics chaired by a chancellor who came from the extinct DDR and also had to save fences and wires, and even escape the bullets, in search of freedom. They're curious about the upheavals in Europe's history and the role it plays in everyone's play. We have subdivided a moral problem to Turkey. We paid – we paid Mrs Prado a lapse, it wasn’t 6,000 euros, it was 6,000 million – we paid 6,000 million and we said something that is incredible: each case will be studied individually. To me, which, at last, – as my grandparents would say – just instruction, I can't bear in mind that if several tens of thousands of people study them individually, I don't know how later that turns into a joint shipment in a resolution where everyone, exactly, gives us the result of sending them into a package in Turkey. And by the same procedure, after an individualized analysis of each and every one's situation, we opened the theoretical door to a package exactly the same for them to come from those in Turkey's camps to Europe. They're telling me. Because from a mathematical point of view it's impossible, from an ethical and moral point of view it's an infamy. Like this, literally. And we, Spain, have made grandloquent statements. First of all, we started with the drips, which our Foreign Minister said: they got angry, and when they saw that it was not very well-known and that in Parliament they didn't have the majority, they formally accepted a parliamentary agreement, which later broke flagrantly, and also by the facts, because of the 18,000 that we should theoretically welcome, last year we only welcomed to 18. Mrs. Prado, we have only one doubt, which is the fifth paragraph, the last paragraph. Why? Because we are convinced that not all the countries from which refugees come are innocent, nor all the countries of the European Union are guilty of some of the problems you pose. And it's true that there have been major errors here; the picture of the Azores is something that is marked to the fire for subsequent actions. But the refugees, and Mr. Ron talked about returning to Kabul, because some fled because they raped, sold girls, dealt with women, didn't practice my religion, didn't even have the condition of being human.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u161	That's what happens in some countries, and that's why he's also running away. Or they throw themselves in some places to those who are not straight – they call themselves otherwise. So we would ask him, and in addition to begging the People's Party, which is going to be what he will decide with most of them, also to reach another agreement unanimously on this chamber, at least in our case that he would allow us to vote separately on that point, because I think if we really want to send a message at this moment and on that initiative that remains. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u163	President, ladies and gentlemen. In this Chamber we found that in Galicia through the welcoming plan of the Galician Union we had the resources and coordination needed to carry out the reception procedure and the subsequent integration of applicants for international protection. This was in February 2016 in a unanimous agreement, where we also call for a mechanism for the distribution of refugees between member countries. We also defend the need to act in the European context under the principles of solidarity and responsibility. We also denounce that the European Union can and must give a quick and adequate response, but that the member states were not doing so, the member states of all colors, but motivated by the nationalist threat and populist pressure. Member States like the populist friend of Podemos, but also the socialists of Italy, France or the Slovak Republic. In April 2016, this year, we urge the Central Government to comply with the third additional provision of Law 12/2009. Already this month, at the last plenary session, we are committed to continuing to work in coordination within the welcoming plan of the Galician Union and all available resources, and we are defending the constructive and coordinated policies in the face of threats from border controls focusing on the Schengen area. We also bet on the adoption of an agreement that respects international legality and human rights. At the European Council held in Brussels on 17 and 18 March, Spain came to the fore with an institutional statement on negotiations between the European Union and Turkey, which was adopted unanimously, since we believe that it was the text of that institutional declaration which should serve as a reference, since it was supported by all parliamentary groups. I understand that before making protests against or in favor, or expressing the vote, you should answer some questions, ladies and gentlemen: Are you against ruling out collective expulsions and respecting the principle of non-refoulement, as we call for in this Chamber to comply with this agreement unanimously? Are you opposed, ladies and gentlemen, that all migrants are registered and that each asylum application is handled individually, in accordance with the Asylum Procedures Directive and cooperating with UNHCR, as we call for in this Chamber to comply with the agreement unanimously? Are you against the European institutions helping Greece and Turkey to ensure that all migrants are protected in accordance with the international legality of the principle of non-refoulement? Are you, ladies and gentlemen, against specific and concrete resettlement commitments and taking into account the vulnerability criteria of the United Nations by promoting protection measures, fulfilling the agreement unanimously? Are you against Turkey working with neighbouring countries so that no new maritime routes can be opened where thousands of people can die? Are you against financing specific projects aimed at improving the situation of refugees, 3,000 million with the possibility of increasing in others, for food, ladies and gentlemen, for health, for education, for infrastructure, and complying with the agreement of all parliamentary groups? Are you against offering persons who have the right to international protection a safe legal way to apply for asylum in the Union by means of a resettlement procedure, such as what we request here in this Chamber and to whom does the agreement respond? Are you, ladies and gentlemen, opposed to re-establishing Schengen by putting an end to temporary controls at the internal borders and restoring its normal functioning, as we also call for in this Chamber? Ladies and gentlemen, we are in favour of everything I have just said. So we can't vote on your initiative, or at least we can't vote on it in its integrity, so if you accept the vote by points you will see that what I'm referring to as our group will be willing to support them. Ladies and gentlemen, what we cannot share is your attack on the European project. Europe is synonymous with democracy, freedom and human rights; Europe has turned to the greatest progress in the world; Europe has made a sign of identity for the defence of the welfare state, public health systems, education, social services as no other place in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, we will support all initiatives that make an integral approach with the European Union as a reference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u165	...not as an enemy. We are committed to a common immigration policy based on solidarity between states, and in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we are willing to assume our responsibilities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u166	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Author group of the initiative, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u167	Well, I would like to thank the Joint Group and the Gaga de Left alternative for this initiative, and we will not accept the vote by points. In the past full, indeed, a consensus agreement has been reached here on the part of solidarity and hospitality. But right now the BNG brings is a joint initiative, because in front of the dramas like what's going on is time to give answers, answer and solve the problems. That's actually part of our initiative, but it's also time to denounce, it's time to reflect on why these situations happen and it's time to rectify, and it's necessary to rectify because the causes don't go through a biblical curse. This whole refugee crisis is not because if they were suddenly set to walk, it is because of policies where the European Union is consensive, complicating and part, so clear. There are hundreds of humiliated people, desperate people who will look for desperate exits if they don't act in the cause; you can't attack a tumor with aspirins. And these thousands of refugees and refugees will continue to arrive if there is no remedy to the causes, which is that imperialist policy, that policy of interference and not the sovereignty of the people. A member of the Galician Nationalist Block, the spokesperson of the BNG in the Town Hall of Lugo, is in the port of Piraeus, in Greece, and moves me what is living there and says: "For several days now, refugees from the islands have not arrived, when they were before, but with the agreement of the European Union and Turkey are held on the islands. Here they're dismantling the camp by the theme of tourism, because here the ferry from all the islands and cruises are coming, and they don't want to see the image of refugees. That fantastic European Union doesn't want to see the problem. Today morning" – we're talking about the 11th – "this was filled with police, three buses articulated and filled with Kurds. They took us to government camps controlled by the army, located in areas away from the population, so they wouldn't see each other. The refugees don't know where they're going, but they go up, because they tell them it's to keep moving towards Germany. People climb the buses with dozens of bags per family, trying to take everything they could out of their houses to move forward towards the next camp, and with their eyes always set in Germany." What do you remember about this image, ladies and gentlemen? What does this picture remind you of coming into this case by buses, but at other times they went on trains, not knowing where they were, telling them they were going to a better place? It is dramatic that this fantastic European Union is having these actions, looking to the other side when it is consensive and complicit in the situation. So today, the BNG wants to put here the accent that these people need to be cared for, but above all, to put the emphasis that we need to change policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u169	It is not enough to say: what a pity! this situation is tremendous. We need to change the policies that give rise to this situation, and that policy change is possible, it is possible to want to do so. So the BNG said no to NATO, not to imperialist and military policies in the past, and we say it in the present and we'll keep saying it in the future. It's not worth opportunism in the face of situations like these, we have to act so that they won't happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. I'm sorry, I didn't understand you well if you accepted the point vote. You don't accept it. Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u171	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the People's Parliamentary Group on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia in connection with the early detention programme of colorectal carcinoma. We do not accept amendments from the groups of the Nationalist Block Galego, Socialist and Mixed, so we vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the early detection programme of colorectal carcinoma. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31; abstentions, 3. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u172	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the demands to be made by the German Government to the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the milk agreement and the action to be taken in relation to the talks it is opening. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the dairy agreement and the action to be carried out in relation to the conversations it is opening. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u173	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to protect and safeguard the declared heritage of cultural interest. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in order to protect and safeguard the declared heritage of cultural interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u174	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the necessary measures to maintain the sustainability of the social security system. None of the amendments were accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Juan Carlos González Santín and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the central government for the necessary measures to maintain the sustainability of the social security system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58 votes against, 3; abstentions, 13. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u175	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the drafting by the Galician Council of a work programme for women victims of gender-based violence. Amendments to the Joint Group and the Socialist Group were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Galician people, at the initiative of Da Rosa Oubina Solla and seven other Members, on the development of a work programme for women victims of gender-based violence by the Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes in favour, 27. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u176	They didn't vote, they didn't vote. Perfect. It's approved. It's all right to be, because the most important thing for the honourable Member is to vote. But, well, it doesn't stop being this among other things... [[Protests.]] But, well, there's everyone. I was surprised, it's something that surprises me, but nothing else, has any particularity. Let's vote another one. We voted in favour of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Ms Carmen Iglesias, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the care and prevention of oral health in the public health system. There is a compromise proposal, which seems to call for a point vote, if the proposal is accepted. So, the first point, which is what happens, is, "To study the feasibility of expanding the coverage of oral health and prevention to the whole adult population and to the new groups of people in the Greek health system, to finance sealings, cleanings and embassies, and especially pathological processes that affect the oral cavity and that involve the loss of teeth directly related to pathology and its treatment, presenting the results of studies in this Parliament." This is the first point, which we are going to vote separately, and then we are incorporate as an amendment to add the points that I drew up from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote for the first point, which is the transactional one. Vote for the transactioned text of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the care and prevention of oral health in the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. The text of this first trading point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u177	We now vote on the points raised by the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group as an amendment to addendum. We therefore vote on these points. G.P. add-on points voting. from Galician Socialists to G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the care and prevention of oral health in the public health system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. These addition points to this non-law proposal are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u178	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to its participation in the management of the integrated state public enterprises in the Welsh naval sector and the demand for the Navantia of the referral of the 2016-2020 Industrial Plan presented in its board of directors. There's a transaction that arose about the march, that if you can read it, Mrs. Adam, we thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u179	Yes. Point 1 remains as drafted in the resolution. And point 2 would be as follows: "Asking Navantia for detailed information on its industrial plan for the next few years, especially as regards the production centres located in Galicia."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u180	Thank you very much. If he gets us there. Thank you. We therefore vote what Mrs. Adam has just read. Voting of point 1 and the transactioned text of point 2 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with its participation in the management of the integrated state public enterprises in the Welsh naval sector and the demand to the Navantia of the referral of the 2016-2020 Industrial Plan presented in its board of directors. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u181	Finally, we voted in favour of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the demands to be made by the German Government to the Central Government in relation to the agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey on refugees. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the agreement signed between the European Union and Turkey on refugees. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 40; abstentions,18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u182	We continue on the agenda, with point five of interpellations. Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures taken to deal with the crisis of the dairy sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u183	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor of the Rural Environment, today, we have brought here an interpellation to speak again about the situation of the dairy sector in our country, what I would ask you, if possible, is that you do not speak to us about this plan for strengthening the dairy sector, which we have already said from this rostrum and in different areas in this Parliament that it is important, but, of course, that you will in no way contribute to solving the current situation, which is possible for many farms this plan for strengthening to come too late, when those farms no longer exist, because you and the People's Party in general, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, defend that they have to close many more exploitations in the state, most of them in Galicia. Look again, the sector is launching all kinds of warnings for someone with responsibility, capable of acting in that area, to take some kind of solution to deal with the increasingly serious situation in the dairy sector. We're not going to repeat a lot of data on the price situation, because they're known to be well known: in Galicia, the lowest prices are paid for milk from across the European Union; we have an average of 27 cents, although more than 30% of the milk sold in our country is sold for less than 25 cents, and the practice of all the farms pays what can be called the marginal part, around 20% of its production, around 18 cents per litre. This has provoked data that from our point of view are very worrying in our country, that we have already talked about on other occasions and that you have denied, and I would like to have an impact on that data, which is the weight loss of the Welsh dairy sector. Here we have made the claim that Galicia is growing less than in the rest of the communities and, of course, much less than in the whole of the European Union the production of milk. You denied it and I'd like you to reply to the following data: Is it true or not that between 2013 and 2015 in Galicia increased by 4.8% the milk production, while the average state was 7%, while, for example, in Castile-A Mancha increased by 12%, in Andalusia by 16% or in Navarra by 15%? And, curiously – I always wonder, but still no one has managed to explain it – against all market standards, precisely where the least has increased, which is in Galicia, has dropped the price much more, in particular, 26% in those two years – between 2013 and 2015 – while the average state of download was 20%. And, curiously, in Andalusia and Navarre, where milk production increased, less milk dropped. The consequence of all this, Counsellor, was that in December 2014 Galicia represented 38.8% of the state's milk sector; in December 2015, 38.1%, and in February 2016, 37.6%. Have you lost weight or have you lost weight of the Greek dairy sector in relation to the state? Are we losing production or are we not losing production, Counselor? But paradoxically, at the same time as this situation occurs, it is curious that almost half of all milk imported into the Spanish State comes to Galicia, mostly from France and Portugal. And this is so taxively, for in particular, more than half of milk in cans without concentrating that it's important to stop Galicia, more than 125,000 tons. At the same time that Galician exports fall outside, which is the opposite of what's happening in the Spanish State. So we are faced with a situation that has a double side: one that is likely to be resolved with that plan of strengthening, which is the structural weaknesses that the Welsh dairy sector has and which I am not going to talk about today. But it's a conjunctural situation that you have also on many occasions characterized as a market crisis caused by overproduction, while at the same time reducing world consumption, mainly attributed to the paron of exports to Russia and to the paron of increased consumption of milk in China. And in this context we have to say that, according to recent announcements, the European Union has announced that overall production of the European Union is expected to increase by another 5 % this year, with which the crisis rather than solves itself seems to get worse and worse. And in that context, what solutions have you heard from the Germans and the Germans, the Counsellor, and the Minister? The Minister says she hopes that the European Union will soon find its way to double its intervention purchases. And you're the last one that told the gainful, after telling them it wasn't the time to mobilize, is that you're going to do a study to see if it makes the Greek farms as efficient as the blindfolds. I'm telling you, if you pay 35 cents for each liter of milk to the Greek farms, they're certainly much more efficient than the Andalusians. On the other hand, the European Union has not done much to address this situation either. You had demands that were made before the European Union through the ministry, and none of those demands were met by the European Union, and the minister because she came so quietly home and waiting another time, and you too. And one of the big solutions that the European Union has provided more than a month ago is that it has voluntarily reduced its milk production. And yesterday that recommendation that you made to the European Union more than a month ago took effect through the Official Journal of the European Union, in which two regulations were published, one on implementation, 559/2016, and 558/2016, which refers exclusively to what the previous one can also apply in the case of cooperatives. This regulation is to say that it is authorised to reach agreements in the areas of states in the spring and summer, in the field of interprofessionals or cooperatives – ultimately in the sector – in order to reduce the production of milk for six months, and thus try to control the price crisis. Because, indeed, in the considerations of this regulation itself – which are quite interesting – says that other mechanisms will not be put in place by the European Union. And also to say that it is curious, I recommend that you read this regulation because you will see how this European Union likes to practice self-fulfillation – I am allowed to say this word at this time – because it says in one of its recitals: "Despite the effectiveness of the measures promoted by the European Union...", which is already seen that the effectiveness is being much in the area of shortening the crisis in the milk sector, not only in Galicia, but in the whole of the European Union. So I say, Counsellor, that this is something that I am very concerned about and I have asked you on many occasions: more than a month ago it is known that this will be the only measure that will allow the European Union to establish a certain control over the production of milk in the European Union. We, from the very first moment, said this was an aberration, because what's going to provoke is that maybe in Galicia we ended up contracting our milk production, we ended up reducing our milk production, and, therefore, even more the weight of the Greek dairy sector, to follow this path that is already beginning to continue importing milk from France. So we have always said that this had to be European and controlled from the public. It is of no benefit that this is restricted to agreements between individuals, as much as it is necessary to communicate them to the European Commission and how much they are controlled by the states. So my specific question in this regard, Counselor, is: what do you intend to do about it? Exactly, what did they think?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u186	And also: what are you going to propose to the ministry on this matter? And also: do you intend to do something more before the European Union so that in addition to self-recognizing itself with the effectiveness of the major measures that drive you to control the crisis in the dairy sector, do you really do something? Because in the light of the recitals which the Commission itself lays down in its regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u188	...should take some rather effective action. And especially you who have or should be very interested in solving the crisis in the dairy sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u189	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u190	...should be being much more proactive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u191	Finish it, Mrs. Peace. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u192	...making proposals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u193	Thank you. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u194	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Paz, they say that time sets and takes away reasons, and events of different kinds have occurred since this interpellation was registered on September 23 of last year in relation to the dairy sector; among others, that many of the actions established within the signed agreement are developed and others are on the way to be published. Well, it's true that I publicly acknowledged, and I still acknowledge, that I wish I had rushed more in time than was done, but it's also true that there are certain things that we might have had to do many years ago – and you've been ruling – and that we're going to be able to lay a firm foundation for these six months that we've been in the regulation. So – and as you know – the main reason why this agreement was signed in September was to stabilize the price, and the price has been stabilized for six months in Galicia, and we speak of 28.5 cents. Yes, Mrs. Paz, 28.5, it's true that we've been in that bay since then between 28.5 and 28.8. And according to it was established in the agreement and other initiative of this Council, on the one hand, and at a time of the most critical at this time where the storm is perfect, at this time when one year without quotas is accomplished – because others had the opportunity to also be ruling and had quotas, and therefore the market was regulated and we all know what happened – we reached the industry's commitment to collect at least the same volume as in 2015. The distribution also reached the commitment not to use milk as a commercial claim in its bids. Normically, one of the points collected in the agreement was the type contract approved to regulate the sales relations in the sector and correct the undefined position and uncertainty of the owners when marketing their production, also contributing to giving greater transparency to the milk value chain. Last January 29th was published in the Official Gazette of the State the approval of the standard contract for the supply of raw milk and applicable to the owners registered in the Rega. The Board also found that the publication of this royal decree to amend the regulations on mandatory declarations to be made by the first buyers if they were included in the Rega field, because you – who was also ruling earlier – know that there were certain problems. Therefore, the reliability of the information was improved and improved when it was possible to manage it by the administrations. Of equal importance is the regulation of the role of the first milk buyers, and the draft decree is already public. The importance it has for us is fundamental, because you know that 30% of the milk produced in Galicia is collected through the figure of the first buyers, and it is not regulated as it should. According to this draft, all the first buyers will have to communicate to the administration the prices and quantities they sell to other buyers. In addition, they must comply with a minimum volume of deliveries, which requires the reduction of the number of these first buyers. Even today and even now there is a meeting in the ministry with the various general directors of the different autonomous communities, and among them Galicia asks for something more than it is put in that draft, and it is to establish guarantees of payment. And, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental to providing greater transparency to the chain of value of milk and putting each link of the chain in its place when it comes to knowing those who meet and those who do not comply with the agreements, collected at the signing in September, is the Royal Price Delivery Decree, which establishes the obligation by the industry to make public the data on the prices of buying and selling milk to the industry. So we'll know at what price I buy the milk industry for the livestock, which we already know right now, and how it's selling to the distribution. And so I'm telling you that this is the biggest deal without a doubt, that I wish I had published years ago, because the sector would be safer and, therefore, we wouldn't achieve all these problems that we've seen in the past. Their publication should be imminent, and they know in addition that they had to inform the various ministries, and when the government was in office it also had to do so by the state attorney. Another line in which we continue to work, also included in the agreement, is the inclusion in the packaging of a distinctive seal that identifies the origin of the milk and its derivatives. And in this sense since the Galician Union we have continued to urge the ministry to develop policy on this line. Already out of the deal, but fundamental – and although, Mrs. Paz, you don't want me to say it – it was the first time that the Dairy Sector Strengthening Plan was formed, where all industry-related agents sit at the same table, where, for the first time, you give all the information, absolutely all the information that the Administration has, and you make the necessary assessments to take short, medium and long-term measures. The last meeting took place last Friday and at the same time exhibited this work done by Fogga technicians, who have left us with no doubt the reality of the current situation of milk in Galicia, but also the reality in Spain and Europe; the current one, but also how we have been developing in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, you also said in your exhibition, although only above were quoted right now, that consumption was not a problem. I'm telling them you're wrong, or at least this government said it couldn't derive the problem of milk only from consumption. Of course it's not just in consumption, it's the context in which we move. It's a context where there are no quotas, it's a context where there's a Russian veto, it's a context where the Chinese market has not come forward as if it were going to advance, and it's a context where Galicia now bets and definitely by the transformation of milk products. That's the context that lives right now in Galicia. And talking about consumption, there's a strong fall, and that's reality, we like it or not. And it's a fall that we have to shorten, and we have to cut it down autonomously, we have to cut it down nationally and we have to cut it down at European Commission level. And that's how it's going to be done. At the autonomic level we're going along the path of Gaga 100%, which seems to some of you don't like. I would invite you to attend some of the information talks that we give with consumer associations, that they did, in addition to some of the sporting events, to realize that there is a lack of information, and that in that line we have to follow. It was twenty-five performances, from 100 people's meetings to 10,000 people's meetings. And that's giving its fruit; fruits where questions are constantly being asked about what it is and how we can do to keep consuming it. That's more: there's how schools respond, we have how hospitals respond, we have how they respond to senior residences, and where everyone is opting for the Gaga 100% brand. And on that line, I'm telling you, we're going on and we're going on from school. And what we've detected is that most schools didn't do the request to promote children, because we know that it's also very necessary for them to consume milk, and we'll see what the reason was. And the reason was, on the one hand, that the help given to these schools was just 18 cents/litre, which is now increasing to 90 cents/litre, and it was passed by the ministry of an amount of EUR 300,000 to an amount of EUR 5.2 million, so that children could be consumed in the Gaga 100% milk brand schools. And so that that tendency that came to be followed over the last few years, to lower the consumption of milk and that above it was causing certain problems in those children, if free, and therefore to continue on that line. On the other hand, to tell them that in that area too the European Union has found it – it would only be missing! – that consumption at the level of the countries of the European Union fell sharply, hence the determined bet that is being done to increase information. There's research done and there's a problem, and it's just that this research wasn't known in the different fields...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u196	...so that people can consume milk, because, no doubt, it's more than necessary for our health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u197	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u198	Thank you, Mr. President. If I may be allowed by journalists and journalists who will be covering this session, it is very easy to make the summary of this appearance: BNG asks about the problem of the dairy sector, advisor answers "dark oranges". By the way, Counselor, I've never ruled, I've never been in government. If they were in the government, in the Conseilerie du Medio Rural, comrades and comrades of the BNG, whose policies I'm deeply proud of. And I'll tell you that if I had to relate to them here the amount of measures that were taken to structure the sector and to try to stabilize prices, and even the achievements that were achieved, the relationship of prices and their comparison with the state average and the European average during that period, it would take a lot more than just to list everything you've dismantled in the first six months since your arrival in the Government, which you listed all the positive things they did for the dairy sector. But, finally, that's another debate. In any case, I wanted to tell you that the summary of your appearance is that you came here once again to list the number of drafts – which is already the fourth or fifth time you've told us about the drafts – that for seven months now you've been preparing the ministry. But at the moment nothing has been done, and at the moment what we see is that the situation in the sector is deteriorating. By the way, Counselor, you say the average price is 28.5 cents. That's not what the official reports of the EGF say; the latest official report of the EGF says that in Galicia the average price is 27.7 cents per litre. It's more: it says that in last year average dairy incomes fell by 7.2 % in Galicia and that they lost a lot of money in livestock, which I don't have much time to report to them. But I wanted to point out to you, Counselor, that you came here to tell us practically that you had finished using milk as a claim for large hypermarkets. I just didn't know you were going to make that statement, if you hadn't printed this you wouldn't see the honourable Members; but I'm telling you what it is. It's a picture of a ticket from the supermarket, I'm going to tell you names and marks, because that's all right, you have to mark those responsible. Eroski supermarket chain, April 1, 2016, 13 days ago, Campobueno milk – which I don't know where the "Campobueno" came from – by the way, I don't know if you see it, Galicia 100%, Galicia 100% Campobueno: they gave a liter of Campobueno for any purchase in Eroski; it's just like you bought, 50 cents or 50 euros, a liter of milk. I've got the ticket here specifically: to buy some bags of the trash and some compresses Ausonia gave him a litre of milk. And now you're telling me that you've finished using milk as a claim in big business areas! But, Counselor, I told you that I didn't want to look back and I also told you that I didn't want to talk about the strengthening plan, because that, in any case, will bear fruit within three years, and the problem we have is that it's going to happen within three months. And we do not say so, tell the European Union itself in the regulation which you published yesterday, that there will be seasonal peaks of increase in production when consumption is not going to be increased, but quite the opposite. And you didn't tell me anything about what you've planned to do with the theme in Galicia. The specific question is, what do you think, whether the Spanish State should promote or not, or whether there is a self-regulation in the sector for the next six months? And if so, will you allow that to be done in Galicia? Yes or no? More specific questions I can't ask you, Counselor. And if not, will you defend yourself before the ministry and before the European Union other measures that are really fair and that do not result in the fact that at the end of the year the Germans have to produce less so that the Greeks and the Greeks have to continue to drink milk from France, France or anywhere else, I put France because it is – say – what is settled in our imagination, that we are always the ones we bring with their surpluses, but could it be from anywhere else? Finally, will you agree that with these policies Galicia continues to lose weight in the dairy sector? yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u200	Three very specific questions, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u201	Thank you, thank you very much, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u202	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u203	Round for closure, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, I'll tell you, 28.5 is the average price of milk in Galicia, 28.5. On the other hand, in fact, you might not have ruled, but you felt proud, just as you said, of those who governed their own ideology. But while they governed those of their own ideology, I also ruled, and ruled elsewhere beside the neighbors and the livestock, and I can tell them that the policies they adopted have cheated, and they've done a lot. When you tell me about the milk coming in from France or from Portugal, then I'll tell you what this government is doing in relation to all this. But we have a bigger problem, and it's not liquid milk that's causing the problem right now, but it's transformation. So this government bets on transformation and you told me what we were doing. Now I'm telling you that the deadline has been set for the industrial transformation projects to be presented and that this government has allowed a share of EUR 14 million, and that EUR 155 million has been presented to develop different transformation projects, which is what we must do, in addition to urging the internationalization of our products. And by the way, they stop projecting that sad and dark image, and they check the number of companies, which we already have, transformers, and which are achieving very important levels of market that will undoubtedly have any impact on a future for the good of our owners. There's no more to approach Gourmet or Food and see how many companies we have, with very good products and, therefore, they're already reaching more than important market niches. [[Applause]] And talking about how we protect and how we don't protect, we also talk about sanctions and what this government does to protect our owners. More, I can give you data. Perfectly organized from the different councils, to tell you that regarding the misleading advertising that there is, unlike, that in 99% that doesn't happen, and there are several files already open with the relevant sanctions for more than ten thousand euros each. They have also opened files for sale for loss, and they are carrying out the relevant imposition of their sanctions. As for the entry of milk across the border of Portugal and the year 2016, I will tell you, Mrs. Paz, that a total of 325 devices have been carried out, in which 419 trucks have been inspected and 40 minutes have been lifted due to some irregularities. The campaign has been successful since May 2015, and by December 2015, further 109 inspections have been carried out, resulting in seventy complaints. If you ask me about the amount of milk or tons, I'll have to tell you that you have greatly decreased in the last year the entry of milk from Portugal and also from France. And this is where we have to join the AICA inspections, the Food Information and Control Agency, which is imposing its sanctions on milk buyers in Galicia. Mrs. Peace, it's a lot of work done and we hope this work will lay foundations for the future. And indeed, producer organisations are called upon to play a very important role. This is what the European Commission is doing. In fact, this very afternoon there is a meeting of the Inter-Professional, where are the representatives of the livestock, where is the industry, where is the distribution and where is the ministry, to enable formulae to regulate what the market is itself. That's how Brussels was spoken, and indeed so published yesterday, and that's one of the lines to follow from here on. In that sense, and even though you sometimes want to give the picture that this advisor wants to demonize the sector, I'll tell them: I'm always next to the sector, but with the truths. And within these truths, Galicia now has two producer organizations and this council is urging these two producer organizations to join in. Still, we would have organized only 37 % of the producers and only those producers have 34 % of the production, but we have to take steps because these are the steps being taken not only in Galicia, but... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u205	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u206	...which have already taken place in different countries of the European Union. That's reality, and that's what I have to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u208	...because they're asking me what is being done by this council, what is being done by the government and what is going on through... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u209	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u210	...of the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u211	Thank you, Counselor. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u212	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u213	Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] I don't want to talk, we'll leave the subject there. Well, it's not like that, but I think the times... I'm not talking to you about that. [[Murmurs.]] I think times make up for them and there are examples in that group and in all groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's all the same, it's all right. Let's get to the point. Next question. We won't waste any more time. Mr José Luis Méndez Romeu and 17 other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the decision of the Supreme Court to annul the extension of 129 public transport concessions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u214	Mr. Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, too, Counselor. On 17 March 2016, almost a month ago, the Supreme Court issued a judgment annulling the massive extension of road passenger transport concessions in Galicia. I literally transcribe the Supreme's judgement so that the Counsellor does not seek the turnings to a forceful, diaphany, and without margin of interpretation. In the decision, which consists of four points, the Supreme Court decided: "First. To estimate the appeal brought by the National Competition Commission against the judgement of 24 May 2012, issued by the Dispute Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in the Dispute Appeal 4348/2010. Second. Marriage and annulment of that sentence. Third. To estimate the litigation-administrative action brought by the National Commission for Competition against the Resolution of the Directorate-General for the Mobility of the Environment Council of the Galician Union of 26 February 2010 approving the Plan for the Modernization of Permanent Public Transport Grants for Persons of General Use by Road and Against the Resolution of the so-called Councillory of 22 June 2010, which rejected the request prior to the interposition of the litigation-administrative remedy formulated by the President of the National Competition Commission and annulled them. And fourth. Not to impose the costs of the litigation-administrative remedy and to impose those caused by the appeal to the parties appealed in accordance with the principle of fourth law." Counsellor, I have read literally to the Supreme's judgment so that you do not resort to interpretation juggling by attempting to convey the doubt that they have a part of reason based on the initial judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The judgment, Counselor, is annulled. They no longer have a favorable judgment to cover their resolutions. In fact – and I say so – in the past full, in an oral response to the parliamentary groups of BNG, AGE and PP, you did juggling games moved to argument in this sense. On the one hand, you were clinging to the ruling of the Superior of Galicia to imply that the popular government was right in its resolutions. But on the other hand, in the clear and round judgment of the Supreme, he blamed the two-party government. The Supreme Court's judgment is clear and round and affects three questions: First. He annulled the ruling of May 24, 2012 by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which gave the reason for the extension of the concessions to Galician Union. Second. It annulled the Resolution of the Environmental Council of 26 February 2010, in which the massive extension for a period of 10 years of road passenger transport concessions was carried out. And third. Failure against the Resolution of 22 June 2010 of the Environment Council for failure to admit a requirement made by the chairman of the National Competition Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to lay any ground on which the judgment is based. I do not believe that it is up to this House to theorize on the argumental positions of the litigants, or on the violation of Community regulations in the Resolution of 26 February 2010 which called for the extension of concessions. It is not our legal debate, it is our political debate. There is a ruling by the Supreme Court on the basis of resolutions of the People's Party's Government, Mr Núñez Feijóo being president, and with serious consequences for the road passenger transport sector and for the interurban mobility of our country, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. The judgment, Counsellor, is based on an allegation of 129 of the 144 concessions, 89 % of the concessions. Only 15 concessions have not extinguished it, the remaining 129, with the concessions extinguished between 2010 and 2016, are already in the period of extension and therefore are concessionally affected by the Supreme's judgment. Counsellor, 129 concessions, 89 % exercising precaution services, allegedly, as a result of the fearful resolutions of their governments. And 144 concessions, 100 percent illegally extended and with concessionary companies attached to the Plan for the Modernisation of Permanent Public Transport Grants of People of General Use by Roads in Galicia. The sector values the investment involved in this plan in EUR 100 million so far and with contracts signed to continue with the modernisation plan. What do you do now?, do you recommend that you do, Counselor?, do you continue to pursue the plan?, do you continue to invest in your fleets with the concessional horizon cancelled? What business viability plan does Mr. Núñez Feijóo offer you in this situation? Counsellor, you are not personally guilty of the acts that have provoked the Supreme's sentence, but you are politically responsible as much as you are part of the People's Party's Government that has promoted them. But he is also politically responsible for the passivity with which he has exercised his responsibilities in the field of transport. Passivity with regard to promoting, even to demand, necessary airport coordination in Galicia; passivity with regard to the decision of the Ministry of the Development to remove railway stops from medium distance; passivity with regard to progress in the studies and implementation of the light metres of Santiago, The Coruña and Vigo which remain as it has been for many years; passivity with regard to taking steps to make the train real; passivity with regard to sitting, listening and studying the needs of the transport sector of goods by roads; passivity with the necessary deployment of metropolitan transport where it is not yet implemented; passivity with regard to the practical deployment of intermodality – the word intermodality, I do a recess, has been permanently invoked by Mr. President and by yourself as a key concept in the current transport, often invoked as sometimes ignored in practice; passivity with the implementation of new modes of transport, and passivity, even with the stresses of public routes and frequencies. Counsellor, in matters of mobility, you have only been active in the renewal of the Directorate-General for Mobility. Three heads of the General Directorate in just over three years, very little, very little. You were installed in passive mobility, even to flagrantly disregard the electoral program of the People's Party, your party, on the subject of mobility. Counsellor, we have a problem, a problem that affects a fundamental aspect of the country: the regular public transport of people by road. They are no longer dilated, nor look elsewhere as Mr. Feijó's governments have done for the past seven years. We all knew the end, even if you refused to accept it. Now it's up to them to deal with it, with agility, but also with maximum legal certainty. That's why the Socialist Parliamentary Group asks you two very specific questions: What assessment does the German Government make of the so-called Supreme Court ruling? What measures does the Government plan to take to resolve the situation it has caused? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u216	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u217	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fernández, the issues you are raising today have already been answered in this Chamber in this last plenary session through several oral questions from your colleagues in the other parliamentary groups; since they were no jugglers, they were clear and concise arguments. The president of the board said something about a new law. I also made it clear that in the Greek Government we will process a law to provide legal security, guarantee public service and, above all, order urban transport in Galicia. I, in any case, would like to be able to give you this opportunity to clarify the arguments again, explain the matter, which concerns us and, of course, that we are going to give you a solution. Mr Fernández, you should know, I am quite clear that the decision to extend transport concessions in 2009 was a consequence of the forthcoming entry into force of the Community regulation adopted in 2007. Therefore, the Community regulation which we all knew all over the world, we all knew in 2007 that Community regulation and the government chaired by its party, the two-party government, was unable to provide a solution to ensure public transport services or to provide a solution to give stability to those five thousand families that depend on this key sector in Galicia. He also knew the two-party government that public transport concessions would start to expire as of 2008. The truth is if they did, something they did, a measure to get out of the way, a legal patch, which is through the Budget Law: to extend a year; a legal patch. I hope, Mr Fernández, to explain to us today why you have established that extension for a year, having been aware of this Community regulation since 2007. In this context, the current Government has been obliged to give an answer, to seek immediate and reasonable solutions, and agreed upon by the sector. That's what we did: to draft, to process, to approve a Law of urgent measures in six months. This work culminated, as you know, with the approval of Law 5/2009, of urgent measures; a rule that enabled a legal framework for the extension of concessions. You know that the extension of the concessions is in Law 5/2009, in Article 1(2), paragraph 1 – it is in a law, not in a General Directorate resolution. And he also laid the foundations for a modernization plan for the sector, which would have to be implemented and approved later – that is – by means of a resolution from the general management, which was – as you said – on February 26, 2010. A ten-year extension was established with regard to the date of expiry of the concession of those undertakings to this modernization plan. Because we bet from the Government of Greece on the modernization plan because it involved the provision of better service to all the Greeks: fleet renewal, reducing both the maximum age and the average age of vehicles; hence, greater road safety, greater comfort, environmental improvements, greater accessibility and, therefore, progressive adaptation of these vehicles to people with reduced mobility, introducing technological improvements – as you know, the system of aid to exploitation so that citizens, the Greeks, have in real time this offer of public transport – and socio-laborative measures to ensure equal work and stability for those five thousand jobs, which account for five thousand families that depend on this sector. Therefore, a policy framework approved by this government in 2009 that obeyed and responded to a double objective: to provide better and more efficient service and also to improve the competitiveness of businesses and labour stability. Mr Fernández is sure that he shares with me that at a time like that – in 2009 – of great economic crisis, great economic recession, it was obliged to strengthen and redouble our efforts to give stability to that sector and to those five thousand families that depended on this sector, at a time as critical as it was in 2009. A decision we made in the German Government in 2009, with that normative framework, with the arrival – as I say – of stability and social improvements to 5,000 workers in Galicia. And at the same time, we advanced on an objective that was irrevocable to us: to improve the service that was given to the Greeks. It is not the spirit of triumphalism, of course, but we have advanced it, and so the metropolitan transport plan manifests: a million and a half of the Greeks that already benefit themselves; sixty-five municipalities in these areas of the Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo and Vigo that are in operation. A plan that you know favors the displacements of thousands of Greeks in their daily lives to go to work, to health centers... and something also very important: that favors and directly affects the pockets of the Greeks, with significant reductions in tariffs, 600 euros a year of savings, and therefore an important aid to the economy of those families. So figures that also assess the success of this plan are the more than 335,000 cards distributed and the 42 million subsidised trips. Your Honor, without the law we passed in November 2009 and without that modernization plan, this I have just mentioned would have been, of course, impossible. Companies made commitments to integrate concessions to the Metropolitan Transport Plan into payment systems in this zonal tariff system. Mr Fernández, if we had not adopted this decision that we adopted in December 2009, most of the concessions would have expired and, from that year 2009, they would certainly fall into cascade each of the concessions and the interurban transport services. So I think that in his intervention he forgot a fundamental factor. If it were not for this government's decision – which now criticizes – that it has not acted with responsibility and urgency and that it has not dealt with that Law of urgent measures – you know – if not for all this, Galicia would have been left without most of its long-distance transport in our community. I do not think that the decision that Galicia made was therefore unappropriate or dissuasive, because the solution we found in Galicia to extend the granting of long-term transport, the imminent entry into force of the Community regulation, is similar to that which other twelve autonomous communities have used; communities which, with different instruments, have extended these extensions of their concessions. And, Your Honor, also communities governed by the Socialist Party, of course, and some without asking for that plan of modernization to companies. I can give you the example, which is the case with the Autonomous Extreme Community. So I think we should not be mistaken in Galicia if in total 13 autonomous communities we have agreed in that solution to adapt the sector to this Community legislation that you have already known since 2007. I would also like to recall, of course – that it is something important that does not matter – that the decision of the Galician High Court was endorsed by the High Court of Justice of Galicia. To me, of course, I think it's important. The Supreme Court now interprets that the renewal of the concessions is contrary to the European Regulation and a judgement by the Supreme Court contradicted the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which on its day was approving the extension. We are therefore talking about different interpretations of different judicial bodies, of which we respect, of course, all judgments, although the fact is that we do not fully agree with the Supreme Court because, as I insist, it affects a law – Article 1 of Law 5/2009 – which is prior to the entry into force of that Community regulation. That's why I repeat to you, as I said 15 days ago in this chamber, that we have examined the scope of the sentence legally; we have already analysed the legal margin to legally defend the decisions of our autonomous community, also the interests of the Greeks. We're working, as I said, in a new law, a new law that we'll agree with the sector, which brings together legal security, to continue working on modernizing transport and moving on. That's our bet, as it's also our bet on the design of transport improvement, of the Transport Map in Galicia, with the transport demand, with the penetration plan – which I said fifteen days ago – to give more and better services to the Greeks. Because, Your Honor, at Junta we analyzed, planned, acted and resolved. We resolve to give greater well-being to the Greeks and to defend the general interests of citizenship. We even solved what others left their sleeves on their shoulders; because this is the Government that gives solutions and does not cause problems; because the two-party government continues to cause problems seven years later – that's right – but not only in the Council of Galicia, but also in the Council of Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u218	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u219	You're from Ourense, you'll know that in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u220	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u221	...the Council of Ourense the Socialist Government has expired urban transport and therefore continues to cause problems in the Council of Ourense. We solve our own and that of others. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u222	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u223	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, I was not surprised by his intervention. The truth is, I'm almost never surprised. And if he does, in addition, he's to bring in more shadows than you look at almost all the themes. I would like to remind you clearly that the appeal consists only of two very clear questions: what assessment does the German Government make of the Supreme Court judgement? and what measures does the Government plan to take to resolve the resulting situation? And there's no more fears. There's no metropolitan, no freight transport, no more. There's what's going on. You referred to a decision by the Bipartite to extend the extensions for a year, legally. And we refer to the extension of the People's Party; it's a small detail. Resolution: illegal, declared by the Supreme Court. A little detail: a legal extension and an illegal extension. A legal extension that made the Bipartite and an illegal extension that makes the People's Party; it's very simple. Don't question the Supreme Court at Law 5/2009, for nothing. He didn't even question her at all. What was questioned, both by this spokesman and the Supreme Court, is the Resolution of February 26, 2010. You have a clear sentence. Two questions, Counsellor, two precise and clear questions that invite us to the situation where we find ourselves where their answers are also accurate and clear. With regard to the parliamentary group in question, with regard to this Parliament, with regard to the road passenger transport sector and with regard to the Greeks and the Greeks who reside in rural and also in urban areas, I ask you to give us a concrete answer and you have gone out of your mind, with a distorted account of the present reality; a whole revolutionum aimed at confusing, parading, distorting, attempting not to assume responsibilities – not past – nor the consequences of your decisions; and no responsibilities present in the current situation; no future responsibilities in the decisions it has taken. Look, the triumphal tone – because it was a triumphal tone – of its intervention highlights the inefficiency, ineffectiveness and pre-power of this government, its president and responsibility in transport. It also shows the political cowardice of those who don't recognize their mistakes, don't face the situation, and don't invite support for solutions. Grafically – allow me to explain it this way – you entered a glory girl and continues to give turns indefinitely, because you no longer know where you entered or where you have to go. From his intervention I guess he doesn't recognize where he comes from or knows where he's going. I hope and wish, Counsellor, that at the end of his intervention he would have allowed him to abandon the rotation and that in the replica you – argumentally, of course – will circulate yourself by a turbogloriette, much clearer to identify from where he comes from, much more explicit to know where he is and much safer to know where he is going. I'm telling you again, it's very simple: where do you come from? This government has violated Regulation 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on public rail and road passenger transport services, through the Resolution of the Environmental Council of 26 February 2010, in which it duly extended the granting of road passenger transport for ten years, as decided by the Supreme Court by Judgment No 585/2006, which you well know. And where is she right now, Counselor? It is in a complex and complicated situation – and we recognize it – with 129 of the 144 cancelled extension concessions, with a sector installed in uncertainty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u224	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u225	...–sector, by the way, to what you so appeal and to what so much damage this resolution has done, because the situation of business viability in which you are found is the result of your resolution. As I say, with a sector installed in uncertainty, the victim of the deceptions of the People's Party governments and the pact signed on its day and extension of concessions in exchange for the modernization plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u226	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u227	He's in this situation with the governments of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u229	...no legal extensions, no fleet modernization, no improvements in long-distance services, no new Mobility Act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u230	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u231	...no concession contest. Seven years to do this. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u232	Thank you very much. Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u233	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, you know that the decision taken by the Government of Greece in 2009 with the approval of Law 5 answers the fundamental principles of defending the interests of the Greeks, guaranteeing citizens a transport service according to their needs and demands and also giving stability to that key sector, of which – as I insist and repeat again – five thousand families depend and five thousand families in Galicia in 2009, and they continue to depend. Mr. Fernández, I don't know if those arguments prove convincing to you; if you don't, you should explain them to the transport workers and to the thousands of Greeks who use public transport every day that are the reasons that you consider not to say we did the right thing. In any case, we're talking about a law that was, in 2009, negotiated, agreed with the transport sector; a law that established the framework for the extensions of transport concessions to provide the best service; a necessary and indispensable law because the viability of the service was at stake, the implementation of the new metropolitan transport plans was at stake and labour stability was also at stake. We had to process six months; solve in six months what you weren't able to do in four years. They were not even able to leave Galicia at least prepared, knowing the Community regulation of 2007. What did you guys do? The first draft, which had a lot of allegations from the sector, rejected it; in 2008 another draft, which did not show it to the sector; in the end, the last decision, a legal patch – as I said –: the extension of a year through the Budget Law, a decision with which the National Competition Commission too had no doubt of showing its inconformity. That was his approach, a legal patch, even knowing what the 2007 regulation said. And yet, as I said the other day, you qualified the year 2008 as the year of public transport in Galicia. They talked and promised, they didn't concrete or pull anything forward, they didn't solve and they didn't give solutions. On the contrary, we drafted a legislative text of urgent measures, we dialogued and resolved in six months – of course we resolved. You presented amends to the whole legislative text, and the rush that you haven't had for four years later for the amendments. They wanted that modernization plan in 15 days. In four years they were in no hurry; to ask for the modernization plan in fifteen days if you were in a hurry. In any case, what's also true is that they've been counted three more months, since the Supreme Court's judgment would not be what it was; three more months of those two years that you've had, perhaps since 2008, to do something. If we've had three more months, the Supreme Court is certain that it had no doubt of legality. In any case, the Supreme Court, it is true – and I agree with you that it opens a new stage. We are working because – I insist – we are to give solutions, because we solve. And the legal services have already analysed the scope of the sentence to defend legislative autonomy, to guarantee the service and to ensure that this sentence is not a trap. We have already met with the Galego Transport Committee: an immediate first meeting to jointly assess the repercussions, a second meeting and today I am meeting with the Galego Transport Committee. Mr. Fernández, first, we analyzed, planned, decided, acted and resolved. That's how we're doing it. We're working on a law with legal certainty -- to continue working for the sector -- a law that is dialogued and agreed; that's what we want to ensure the management and planning of transport services. Continue working with the sector to advance in design and, of course, improve service delivery. In any case, I also advance one thing: let's appeal against the Supreme's sentence. Today we present the incident of nullity of the proceedings against the Supreme Court to defend Galician legislative autonomy and the general interest of all Greeks. Because the legal services, not the adviser, the legal services, understand – of course they understand – that they violate the rights and guarantees granted to us by Article 24 of the Spanish Constitution, since the High Court has not previously raised the question of prejudice before the High Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to Law 5/2009. Therefore, because in the German Government we are convinced that we have done the right thing – I insist – today we present the incident of nullity. That's the decision we made to defend the interests of the Greeks. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u234	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until sixteen and thirty minutes. [[The session is suspended at 3:40 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the label of the Greek mexillon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u235	Mr. Val Alonso has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u236	Well, good afternoon to those we're here. Thank you, President. Counsellor, today since the PSdG we have presented this inquiry because we believe it is necessary to speak in this House to put a voice to a vital sector for the economy of many coastal towns in this country. We believe it is essential to speak in this House of Aquaculture, to talk about the mussel and aquaculture that has been developing in Galicia for many years. And not exactly the model that you presented in your preliminary draft law and which, fortunately, thanks to pressure from the sector itself, is now withdrawn. And we also believe that it is necessary to speak of a sector that until 2010 was the world's first producer of this species, and we do it, just today, following the publication of a decision by the Provincial Court of Pontevedra signed logically by three magistrates and to which you and the Greek Government do not give, or do not want to give, any validity, despite being a tremendously clear sentence. A sentence that has just come to the ground all its arguments over these years in defending a model of labelling in the canteens, which is clearly illegal, and I'm going to tell you why. In the sentence itself, and expressly, it is evident that the allusions – I am quoting – "From the Galician rivers, drawn up in Galicia, packed in Galicia, etc.", they are of exclusive use of the products protected by the PDO, and that in addition to the use of mentions to Galicia or the mere reference or vocation in products produced by the mexillon, although its actual source – I repeat – is Galicia, if it is not covered by the PDO, is an infringement of the European law on protection of PDOs. This I have just told you is literally collected in the judgment itself, but it is also on page 10 that it literally says that "it is obvious that the use of the same product, although in a different form of marketing," – in the case of what we are talking about, of the preserve – "it is included in the scope of protection of PDOs." Because otherwise, PDOs would lack an effective protection system that would allow the designation "Mexillion of Galicia" to be used for species produced in other areas and also for other completely different production techniques. But what attracts attention is not what the judgment says, because it is something that, ultimately, many of us have been saying to you for quite a long time, but what attracts attention are your reactions to the sentence itself, on the one hand – and as usual –, taking a long time to fix the position of the German Government. First you waited for a part of Anfaco to speak, I say a part because there are also conservation companies that are part of Anfaco and are also registered under the protected designation of origin. But that part is precisely the one represented by the president and the secretary general of Anfaco. But it's just that you, besides it took time to fix your position, what you did when you spoke was to pick up only the arguments used by this part of Anfaco. First, by delegating the DOP and the Mexican Regulatory Council, saying that you don't know what's going on with this protected designation of origin, which has very few certified producers, which represent only 14% of the production of the mexillon. And then, even saying that the court interpreted the rule completely differently from what has been done so far; in addition, it was a very complex issue and that it was necessary to ask the European Union to determine the scope of the PDO and to clarify the real legal situation. In short, we believe that the only thing you and the German Government are doing in these last few days is to turn the matter around so as not to accept and not to heed what the sentence says, which I repeat – and as I have read before – is tremendously clear. And you're just in this position, from our point of view, because it defends the specific interests of Anfaco I spoke to you before, and also because it doesn't do that would be to recognize that the position you held and the Government of Galicia during those years was completely illegal. Illegal, and I'm going to tell you why, because you're here arguing that the scope of the "Mexillion of Galicia" PDO is limited to the fresh product, based on a report by the 2003 Scientific Committee on PDOs. In 2003, Counsellor, there was not yet the "Mexillion of Galicia" Source Denomination itself, which was registered as such in 2007. Don't laugh, I have here the registration document of 12 September 2007 and you're entering the European Union's "Mexillion of Galicia" Source Denomination, 2007 and you're talking about a report of the year 2003. It is easy to understand, Counsellor, that a report by the Scientific Committee of the year 2003 cannot recognize the normative reality after the publication of the Register of the Protected Source Name. The regulatory framework from 2007 onwards, I believe it is clear, and the judgment itself has already stated it: Regulation 1151/2012, on the protection of PDOs, published in the Official Gazette of the State on 14 December 2012. I'm convinced that you know all this, because if you don't know it, and your office doesn't, you're much more irresponsible than I thought. And they're also defending their position on the terms of origin or origin in the label based on which they are collected in Decree 124/2010. That's how your Director General of Fisheries, Mr Maneiro, defended him a few days ago in Commission 8a. And I have to tell you that it's true, Decree 124/2010, of July 15, it speaks of the references to the source or origin of the Greek language on the label. But what you don't say is that in Article 2 of that decree itself says, textually, that food products produced or produced in Galicia are excluded from the scope of this decree, protected designations of origin or protected geographical indications, the decree of the Galician Union itself. So, Counselor, I wonder who you're wronging, who you want to cheat, Counselor? We think they should start speaking clearly and say that's what they defend, if they defend the maintenance of the "Mexillion of Galicia" PDO or if they don't defend it. Or if they're about to see that a part of the preserve continues to be involved in fraud and consumer deception. Therefore, you must clarify, once and for all, whether they will enforce the law; it is not that I ask you, Counselor. We live under a rule of law where judgments are fulfilled, they are not discussed, nor are they asked for clarifierial dictates. And I do not tell this Member or the Socialist Party of Galicia, I told you just a few days ago, the chairman of the European Fisheries Commission, Mr Alain Cadec, who rightly told him that in the face of a judgment the dictates were of little value. But, more importantly, you ask for clarifications from those who have no powers to do so, from the Scientific Committee of PDOs. Look, I have here the decision-making document for the committee or scientific group of experts for designations of origin. And you know what he says? Well, it says exactly that in order to solve certain complex scientific and technical problems that may arise during the examination of the conditions that allow the pre-registration of the PDO. The scientific committee is therefore not currently competent to issue a report, because the regulatory framework is clear, Regulation 1151/2012, on the protection of the PDO, Counsellor. We really believe that their management, as the ultimate responsibility for the Welsh fishing, is more than questionable, and that they must stop making the ridiculous on a subject as clear as what we are debating today. And what you have to tell us at once, this House, all the people of Greece and the "Mexillion of Galicia" DOP is whether you're going to continue to see that illegal practices continue to be committed in the conservation, illegal. Say a sentence of the Provincial Audience of Pontevedra. Therefore, Counsellor, the matter is quite clear. I hope you will answer us in detail in your intervention whether you will actually continue to allow illegal practices to be put in place in the flagging of the mussel or will comply with what reflects the decision of the Provincial Court of Pontevedra. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u237	Thank you, Mr. Val. The sea councillor has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u238	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Val. Mr. Val, as you will understand, any matter that affects the Greek mythology affects and worries this government. Besides, when this one also comes on the line of distorting the sea-industry chain, we have two concerns. And if this question comes into the marketing part, a key aspect for us, then we have three concerns. That's why we've been here since the first moment when the judgment of the Mercantil Judiciary comes, back in July 2015, taking this matter into account. For the Sea Council to value the products and differentiate them, it means a work formula that can give good fruit, and any element that enters that formula will always receive our attention. But before you take any step in this interpellation you're dealing with, and if you value the judgment you refer to, I think we should take into account a number of important issues or nuances, and in which we should notice if we want to take ourselves more for reasons than for hearts or political interests. The first thing to point out is that the judgement of the Pontevedra Provincial Audience, which was known a few days ago, does not create jurisprudence and only binds the entities that were party to the proceeding; that is, to a particular conservatorium and to the Regulating Council of Mexillon, and therefore only has effect between the parties. Mr. Val, I know you don't like this answer, and, look, I have as many knowledge as you have about justice, but about this I have studied a little bit. The second question is that this judgment interprets the rule in force differently from how it was interpreted. Therefore, in order to clarify the situation and to be able to act accordingly, the Union has asked the European Union Scientific Committee for PDO to clarify whether the mexillone in canned is the same product as the fresh mexillone, since the European Union's latest dictum reflected that they were different products, unlinking the preserve of the source concerned to certify with the PDO. Thus, from the very first moment of the bet by the mexillon with the DOP, there have been several interpretative disputes concerning the scope of protection of various products to which the use of the mexillon comes, since the demand for conditions approved by the European Union clearly indicates that the DOP only affects this presentation of the mexillon in fresh. Thus, it would be reserved for the Mexillon transformed the so-called mention when the Mexillon was produced with DOP, and even the European Union expressly prohibited the placing of the Community logo on its label. This would be the case with the preserves of Galician species, by the fact that their main ingredient is the mussel originating in our community and which, as we all know, produces more than 95% of the Spanish mussel. In this sense – as you well said – Commissioner Fischler responded on behalf of the Commission on 21 November 2003 to a question from the European Parliament concerning the application for registration as a protected designation of origin DOP, a designation of "Mexillion of Galicia", which referred to a requirement of conditions which included two types of presentations, in fresh and transformed. At that time, in view of the fact that this processed or processed had assumed that mussels were subjected to heat treatment and subsequently frozen or cooled, the commissioner literally replied that in April 2003 the scientific committee considered that heat treatment and freezing modified the physical and organoleptic characteristics of the fresh product. According to this committee, this change made the link between the quality of the fresh product and the geographic area of production disappear, so the treatments described did not appear to be compatible with the concept of the designation of origin. As a result, the committee issued a negative ruling as to the register as a protected designation of origin from the "Mexillon of Galicia", with a requirement of conditions which included the presentation of transformation, processed. On the other hand, he issued a favourable ruling on the register of PDO with another plea limiting the presentation to freshness. This approach to the protection of PDO has subsequently also been shared by the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development of the European Commission. He pointed out that the name could only be used in the fresh presentation, not being possible to use it in the canned, pasteurized, peeled or frozen presentations. This, contained in a letter of reply to the conservatories in 2008 on the scope of the protection of the PDO, confirmed the publication on its day in the Official Journal of the Union of Europe on the registration of the PDO itself. In addition, and in the absence of this interpretation, it was carried out during the period covered by Regulation 510/2006 of the Council on the protection of the IXP and PDOs of agricultural products and foodstuffs. I say this because if there were already doubts in the interpretation of the rules, they were increased by the later publication of the new Regulation 1151/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural products and foodstuffs. Moreover, and reaching the third of the killings that must be done, we must point out that a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia of the year 2010, ratified in July 2013 by the Supreme Court, sentenced the nullity of the full right of the "Mexillion of Galicia" PDO regulation, which further increased that interpretive complication. Finally, and as a fourth element of shade that we need to make, we must not forget that at this moment the regulatory council is only certifying with the "Mexillion of Galicia" 14% of the total production of the mexillon that is grown in our rivers. That leaves out the possibility of identifying 86% of the same Greek mexillion in its origin but which refuses to belong to this regulatory council. In addition, it must be borne in mind that 40 % of total production is intended for the preserves which up to now were exempt from having to use the march of the PDO. This production, which, as we saw, had the support of Brussels in order to be able to identify in its cans the origin of its product, whenever and when the indication was correct, would make them out of being able to identify the source, throwing down, about 60,000 tons of our product. This situation, arising from the free choice of a very large part of the batteries from being not part of the regulator council, causes a quantity of mussel around 220 tons that are as Greek as the ones that most would not get into a fraud of origin. I think it would be appropriate to point out all this before you address your questions, Mr. Val. As for the view that I deserve the publication of this sentence, I tell you that I cannot enter it subjectively, as far as the judgments are not commented, they are careful. That's right, we'll always be in defense of the Greek products, and I think the commitment has always been the best. So, maximum defense of quality brands and their advice, which in many cases are the best element in promoting and disseminating our products. But you will understand that within this strict defence also comes the whole of the producer sector, the processing industry and, in particular, the consumer, above all, when this situation marked a complicated picture in which the Administration must act with responsibility and rigour by advocating dialogue between the parties as a solution to this situation of legal limbo. In relation to your second question, what we are going to do to comply with the statement in the judgment, tell you to accept it, but go further and try to safeguard the general interest of the mitilicator sector and the mar-industry chain by clarifying the situation of the use of PDO labelling and promoting its use as a differential element. To this end, as you well know, we have asked the Government of the State to clarify the European Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, which is competent in food matters, if despite the regulatory change in 2012 the criterion on the protection of products under the "Mexillion of Galicia" DOP continues to be maintained. In particular, we also want to know whether the consideration is maintained that thermal treatment and freezing alter the physical and organoleptic characteristics of the fresh product with the cock to make interpretation more comprehensive and to gain firmness in the use of the brand. In any case, I want to tell you all that the Galician Union, from the relevant departments, will continue to work to detect, eradicate and punish the misuse of the name Galicia when the product is alien, as has been done on many occasions, on many products, including the mussel. Finally, about whether we share the content of this sentence, I reiterate that the Council of Galicia shares everything that goes in defense of our products and of the recognition of its quality, but always in a rigorous and firm manner in its legality, since we have to know that it is still important, this judgment does not feel jurisprudence and could generate judgments in another sense. For all this, by trying to clarify the nuances made, to integrate the interests of the entire chain of production and transformation and to give sensible unity to our milliculator sector, I believe that dialogue is the best tool, so we bet on a PDO that counts with a regulation and a functioning in which all seals of the chain fall, because they are all important and they all need each other. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u239	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Val Alonso has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u240	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it is true that you have no arguments to discuss the issues that I have just raised, continue to speak and give validity to a dictatorship of the scientific committee of the year 2003. I repeat, four years before the register of the "Mexillon of Galicia" Source Name. Therefore, how will a dictatorship issued four years before the register of "Mexillion of Galicia" itself apply? I ask you that, what will it be if you don't collect the normative reality that exists from the register of the designation of origin in 2007? The regulatory framework is clear, Counselor. Regulation 1151/2012, read what the judgment says. It says that it is clear that the use of a product, even though under a different marketing formula, in this case it is retained, is included in the field of protection for PDOs. So it doesn't make any sense that you come here saying there's a legal limbo; no, it doesn't. There is a specific regulation of protected designation of origin, which you, in addition to your decree, include in Article 2 Counsellor. He speaks of the mention of Galician origin in the labelling, in Article 2 of his regulation, and says that they are excluded from the scope of application, to make these references possible, those products which are protected under protected designations of origin. If you have collected it in your regulation, what's the problem?, where's the doubt, Counselor? I think it's pretty simple to understand. There is a regulation of the European Union where you have collected the limitations that you have in your own decree, and you come here to turn it around. Really say that since the minute one has been against the protected designation of origin, say it, say it and it will be much better, and it will be much braver to say it here. But what you can't come here to say is that what you want to know is that all that's yellow mussel, because we have the tool to do it, and what you had to do, instead of issuing doubts and questioning the protected designation of origin, is to encourage producers to register and certify themselves under the protected designation of origin. And so we'd be talking about a designation of origin that would probably be the first in Spain in volume of kilograms. Probably one of the first in Europe. That would be responsible, Counselor, and not do what you've been doing all these years. Yes, ma'am, don't mind, because that's what you're doing. What you're doing is mixing things, what do you have to see is that the High Court of Justice and the Supreme Court have eliminated the regulation of the regulatory board? You mean you don't have a regulation now? Isn't that the year 2000? That you come here to say that, the truth is that you powerfully call attention. The fact is that tomorrow, tomorrow, the regulatory council could resubmit the same regulation that is being annulled by giving Anfaco the hearing process, and it would be legal again, because it was annulled by a defect in a manner, not by any matter of content, Counsellor, that's the reality. You're not betting on the protected designation of origin and so we're going, so we're going, Counselor. Look, I'll tell you why this is your model. A model that made Galicia lose its first position as a producer of this species worldwide since 2010. And look, let's see, in addition, that the model you're defending has changed the trend in mexillon marketing. Traditionally, the preserves absorbed more than 60 % of the mexillon, and 40 was for fresh, and now it's just the opposite, it's destined for fresh more than 60 % and it still retains only less than 40 %. And you'll wonder why, by magic? No, because conservative companies are importing foreign products that you're agreeing to, and they're consenting to fraud and misleading consumers by making references to Galicia when they can't. And there is a sentence – which it is true that it does not create jurisprudence, it is true, we have arrived there – but that it gives you the ability to apply everything that the PDO protection regulation says, it gives you legal capacity and legal support to be able to apply and sanction, because it is only necessary to go through any supermarket and go around the line of conservatives to see how many references there are and allusions to Galicia that are illegal, Counsellor," go on!""don't say so to this group, say a sentence. I would like to read again what he says, that the allusions "From the Galician rivers", "mentions", are only possible through the product certified by the PDO; merely mention of Galicia is violating European Union Regulation 1151/2012. And you know that. And if you don't want to, say it here, say you're against the "Mexillion of Galicia" Source Denomination, and tell the Greek society. Look, the best example there is that the German Government is not in favour of the "Mexillion of Galicia" Source Denomination and its regulatory advice is that in the budgets this year you spend zero euros, zero euros, for the operating expenses of the regulatory board. If that's to support a regulatory council and a designation of origin, because the truth is, we think it's not the way. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u241	Thank you, Mr. Val. The Sea Councillor has the word
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u242	Mr. Val, no matter how nervous you may be, you won't get me to say I don't support the designation of origin, you won't get it. Because if anyone supported the Denomination of the "Mexillion of Source" was the Government of the People's Party. Look, zero; I'll tell you, so you don't get nervous. In 1994 it was recognised the designation of a quality Greek product for the mexillon, by order of 15 July 1998, the designation of a "Mexillon of Galicia" was recognised, by order of 17 October 2000, the first Regulation of the "Mexillon of Galicia" Source Denomination and its regulatory council was approved. We started the first application for registration in the year 2003, which is when this answer comes. The regulation was adopted, as you well said, in the year 2000, in 2003 the registration began with the European Union, it was when we were told that the transformation did not apply to it, and in 2007 the procedure we left started in 2005. As a result of the adoption of that Regulation in 2007, a new Regulation was adopted in 2008. In 2008, I'm just going to tell you what the explanatory statement says, so don't get nervous, Mr. Val, calm down. The explanatory statement of the 2008 regulation says: "In the order of 17 October 2000 the Regulation of the Source Denomination "Mexillon of Galicia-Mejillon of Galicia" and its regulatory council was approved. The previous name was approved by order of 15 July 1998 of the Fisheries Council. So this regulation was adjusted to technical requirements that today – in 2008 – "are not in line with new technical requirements published, so it is necessary to make a new regulation." Regulation which in 2010 brought down a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. A regulation that then has been sent back to the Supreme Court, and in 2010, this councillor called the regulatory council and said, "It's time to make a new regulation where we feel like all the parts included." They said no, they would. They're working on a regulation of the year 2000. The 2000 regulation does not recognize the possibility of preserving the concept of mexillon designation of origin, it is not recognised, because there is a doubt that the transformation to conserve and freeze, as well as to pasteurize, changes the physical and organoleptic characteristics of the product. Therefore, they disenchant themselves with their source. We understand that if you can put the mention drawn up in Galicia or Galicia whenever the mussel is Greek, that for us would not be a fraud, because it does not issue, sir, any kind of deception or fraud to the Greek consumers. And look, it's all right to say so much nonsense that I don't support the designation of origin, but like I don't support it, what do you want me to do to the sector that doesn't want to be part of the designation of origin? Not to the conservator, as you well say, to the producer sector, what will the canteens do if the producer sector is not included in the regulatory board? If we can only certify 14% of our production. Look, the imports, the rate of imports of mexillon from the outside, the average annual at the stage where you were the representative of the Galician Council of Fisheries, were 76% higher than the import that has been taking place since 2009 until now. It mattered a lot more mussel than now, but it's the same thing, I don't care if it matters mussel, I think the consumer has to be able to differentiate our mussel from the mussel from the outside. If we didn't ask for this clarification, we'd be right in the opposite direction, what we'd get is that Galicia's name has disappeared from the vast majority of the stuffed mussel, because it doesn't apply to it, that's what all the reports we have right now say. I know you must be a professor in jurisprudence, I am not, but I only say: I want and I defend the designation of origin of the mussel, of course I defend it, but I defend it for all producers to be included. Now all the producers are setting up dialogue tables, they've already been gathered with me, they're talking to the regulator council, they want to find a formula in which they're all represented and they can put a production in which they can also later, already, our canteens put their product on the market by, of course, distinguishing it from everything that comes from outside. And look, we do controls of the cans of cans of cans that are invaded using the name Galicia wrong, and they are sanctioned. But it's not that much, because by the minutes we have only 1.23% were identified by packing mussels out and putting Galician mussels in. And one of those canteens looks like this one. In the defense of our product they will never give us lessons, I will always defend the coastal sector, its designation of origin, but that it embraces all, all, Mr. Val, all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u243	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to point 7, questions to the Government. Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the judgment of the Constitutional Court in which several articles of Law 27/2013, of 27 December, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration are declared unconstitutional
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u244	To put the question, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rueda, just put it down for the president's lady. On December 30, 2013, the BOE published the Local Administration's Law of Rationalization and Sustainability, Larsa, which amends the Local Plan Basics Act of 1985. This law, in the view of the practical totality of Spanish municipalism, called for an unprecedented attack on Spanish municipalism, because it takes care of its local autonomy, does not respect municipal competences, and obviously the principles of proximity and equity in the provision of public services. This law, in addition, does really amazing things, such as attributing powers to indirect elective bodies, such as provincial deputies, and considers that municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants are underage and that they have no political, economic, or intellectual capacity to manage the resources of the neighbours of that municipal term through their government bodies recognized by the Constitution and by all our basic standards. This law has been taken, Mr Rueda, you know very well, by 50 Members and Members, Senators and Senators; by 3,000 municipalities throughout Spain, largely exceeding what the law requires, which is 7% of the municipalities and 6% of the population; by the autonomous communities of Andalusia, Asturias, Catalonia and Canary Islands, and the parliaments of Estremadura and Navarra. And here, allow me, at this hour, we're all as soon as we're a little sleepy, make a mention of Sabina, and our autonomous community in her person, and remember what Sabina said "just you miss." I mean, it's been around everybody here, but the Autonomous Community of Galicia, a historic community that should have a special zeal for defending its powers, it doesn't. Because the judgment says that only autonomous communities can ban what is within their own jurisdiction, and therefore social services, basic health care, attention to citizens... because it turns out that it should be the autonomous community that has set up, and also has us transferred, of course, and that is why the Constitutional Court says it is not the competent State. Of course, impossible. On the way there are discussions, reports, a law that you have made, instead of resorting, to cover up Mr. Montoro's beehives, and the conclusion, Mr. Rueda, I think it's basic. And here we are talking about a political debate, not something else. What political consideration does this sentence deserve from you, Mr. Rueda?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u246	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, following Sabina, "you're all missing" 4th of 17. That means 13 autonomous communities didn't resort. You're talking about historic communities, the Basque Country, as far as I know, it's also, and it hasn't gone through it. Maybe he did what we did in Galicia, who went to work. You said no, is that what they did was, instead of resorting, a law to overcome the situation that was being given. Well, actually, we're looking for a solution where others were looking for not a conflict, because in the course they don't have to look for a conflict, but they didn't do anything; or if they did, they did what we did here, what happens is that you here presented an amendment to the whole and there, other autonomous communities governed by the Socialist Party, or approved a law like the one we approved here -- that you voted against, I insist, with an amendment to the whole -- or whether it was a community of the People's Party that made that law, the Socialist Party or, at least, supported it, or did not oppose it, and much less a amendment to the whole. Look, Mrs. Soneira, the political valuation you're asking for. I'm glad you recognized that some things we said were not right, actually they weren't. Others were also fine, because you set up to make a political appraisal, I have to tell you that one of the things the law doesn't cancel out in its entirety – as you're sure you know, at least as well as I do – is because there are very interesting things that also say the sentence. The judgment says that everything that has to do with mergers, I say it because it's what you're demonizing, and they say you can't do it, and just as the Galician Board is proposing, it doesn't go anywhere; listen, because we were following the model of promotion of mergers that are also promoted in that law, and look at where the Constitutional Court says that it has all the legal guarantees of the world, which must then be followed, which is a way of rationalizing the local administration. Therefore, political valuation in that issue, positive valuation. Indeed, we are pleased to be right, to apply the law in a part where the Constitutional Court said it had no problem, and to confirm that there must go the way of the future of the local administration, at least on a voluntary basis. First part of the political valuation. Part two. Listen, as I told you, there were two ways here, which was to travel and do nothing or try to solve the problems. We've already said, and I've heard it in this House – because I think it's not the first time we've been discussing this topic – that there was an extra-competent limitation of the law, that there were things that said they couldn't do the councils and others that the councils could continue to do, that they didn't have to be things of the autonomous communities. We agreed with the autonomous communities and the municipalities themselves. And to overcome that ejaculation, because the problem we had on top of it, because there were already municipal speakers who were saying they couldn't provide services, we had to make a law. The difference is that while we were trying to solve the problem, you here – I insist – presented an amendment to the whole, you and the rest of the groups. Just saying what happened in other places. In Andalusia there was a decree of law, there are decrees of laws, which said exactly the same as our law, promoted by the socialist government of Andalusia. In Asturias, you mentioned these two autonomous communities, exactly the same. PSOE voted in favour of Castela-León, with a law just like ours, and in Rioxa. And in Murcia they didn't vote in favour, they didn't promote it, but I think at least they abstained. I mean, different positions, curiously, of the Socialist Party itself, depending on responsibility or not, or knowing how to read a situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u248	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u249	...which was derived from this law and that we, in part, had to make a law, we didn't like it at all. The option was to go through or fix the problem. We opt for the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u250	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u251	The truth is, Mr. Rueda, that I don't know if you really know, I have a doubt. What do you guys do? I mean it, because at the municipal level you don't go through a law that you yourself recognize had some very important ones, and then you say: we don't seek conflict, we're going to legislate and make a rule that exceeds all of this sensibility of Mr. Montoro. Listen, and they did others, too, yes, but the others -- apparently they did that -- ran too. You're renouncing the powers of the autonomous community. You, as head of the local administration in the Government of Galicia, find that you do not resort to preserving local autonomy. I advise you, sir, it doesn't have to do with this, but it has to do with this Montoro theme with regard to municipalities. I recommend that you read an article today that comes out in the edition of La Voice de Galicia de Carballo. There are municipalities of every political sign, including its mayor of Laracha. There are municipalities... when you don't exercise, whatever happens, and in Madrid they think this is yellow. There are municipalities that have fixed taxation in a bank the triple of their annual budget, you know why? Because Mr. Montoro said all the rest should be used to amortize debt. What if you don't owe me? And in the meantime, municipalities can't derive from infrastructure resources. Small municipal companies that could have a way out there, shut down and their workers to Switzerland, where they were their parents and grandparents. I'll give you this as an example because you're the head of the autonomous community in this matter. And you can't be saving your face to the friendly government, above the interests of the autonomous community. You first set the example of Andalusia. Yes, but you did. Did you stop him from resorting? Because you're not the councillor of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u253	...you are the counsellor of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u255	...of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira, thank you very much. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, I do know what you're doing. I dedicated myself to working, you dedicated yourself, for example, to going out, as you went out yesterday, to say here in that gallery, and it's in the Journal of Sessions, that all the departments that depend on Mr. Rueda gave him help, of what we're talking about. Not the first, not the first. Now, one thing is true, another is what you say there, which is dedicated to lying in a parliamentary manner, so you must think that it's not so important, that you can say what you want. That's what you're dedicated to, and a good example is this, these are claims, the rest are considerations like what you've done now, but in the end it's all the same. Look, what are we talking about here, solving problems or having political ideas that don't go anywhere if we don't solve the problem? Here's what we talk about, about not being in and staying there, and how we have to explain what is not in it, which is so fashionable now in the Socialist Party, or saying that what we have to do is that instead of saying that everything is wrong and that nothing needs to be done, and that the refusal is what leads anywhere, instead of saying that we have to work and that we have to solve problems. Because tell me, Mrs. Soneira, the Constitutional Court's sentence has just come out. Was there any action to be taken on the basis of that judgement from Galicia? No, because the job was already done. No, because the problem was solved. Of course, you say, that's what you miss. What we had to do is not solve the problem, it's pose the resource and mount the fight, and it doesn't matter that the problem is solved, and while the interveners say that social services could not be provided, that education services could not be provided and that gender violence could not be addressed from the councils. Because that's what was going on. That doesn't matter to you. What we had to do was go through it, make a law to solve it, no, and if you do, amend it altogether. That is their approach, which is not the responsible approach of other socialist groups in other autonomous communities, fortunately for those autonomous communities. But yours is to say here why they didn't resort, because that was the important thing, the rest is the lack. Look, I'm glad that the Government of the People's Party in the General Administration of the State in Spain undertook an in-depth reform of the local administration, which was already time, what happens is that it did not do well, and we said it from the beginning, as we said other things that were not doing well, and therefore we had to work from here to try to amend them, so that they are fixed here, which is what matters to us, and that is our obligation, our duty, and that is what people are asking us, so that it puts us in the government and you in the opposition, so that they vote against them, and they don't want to solve any problems. That's the difference. Because look, 13 billion euros in Plan E. What did they fix? You're telling me you couldn't have so many municipalities with so much savings and couldn't do anything. Do you know why there's savings? Because the first thing the People's Party's Government had to do when they got here is put a payment fund to the suppliers so that all the debts that the municipalities had could be paid. That's where a lot of savings came from. [[Applause]] Where are the EUR 13,000 million in Plan E? What did they do? The tenant, the one with a hardware store, the one with a bookstore, the county owes him money, where are they? What took advantage of Plan E? Where were those 13 billion euros? Where are the jobs that were created? What did they do to the Town Councils? The problems were there the day a government had to arrive at the central administration of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u258	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u259	...and try to fix the problems, try to fix the payment to providers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u260	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u261	...and from there that the whole problem is, Mrs. Soneira, that the municipalities have a lot of money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u262	Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u263	...and that they can't dedicate to anything other than paying the debt. Let all the trouble be that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u264	Thank you, Vice President. Question by José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the date scheduled by the Government of Galicia to send to the requesting Members a copy of the preliminary draft of the EDAR do Souto, in Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u265	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, today we have come to this plenary with a subject that must never have come, and it is a matter which seems to us a serious matter, especially as it means a lack of respect for this Parliament in the person of three Members, a lack of respect for the law of transparency and good governance and a lack of respect for the whole of citizens. The question is very simple. On November 6th, this deputy and two others asked to know the project of the Souto sewage treatment station, which is deposited in his council. Thirty working days have passed and we couldn't access, no answer, no justification. On December 18 we ask for that access again. Thirty working days and no answer, no justification, no access, no phone call. On February 28th, Counselor, let's go back to your counseling, and to you in this case, asking for access to that project. We're in April and no access, no file, nothing at all. What we don't know, Counsellor, is that there's a commitment between the Town Hall of Santiago, the Ministry of the Environment and its councillor for the year 2013, so it's decided to build a new debugger not in the place of Silvouta, where the old one is, but a mile away, in the place of Souto. We know that there is an agreement approved by the government municipal council on April 8, 2013, where multi-year investment commitments are established, I think I remember that of 13 million in 2014, 38 million in 2015 and 7 million in 2016. We know that there is a payment commitment in which the state will pay a maximum of 41 million, the Union a maximum of 8,996,000 and the rest of the Town Hall of Santiago. But we know that the project is in his council, the work didn't go out of the bidding, nothing was done at all in that place and no explanation was given to anyone. So what we want to know, Counselor, is something very simple: the day and time when these Members can appear in their council and see that project. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u267	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u268	Thank you very much, President. I know that you are an experienced politician, beyond that I also know that you were the mayor of Santiago and that, even when you were mayor of Santiago, it was when they started the proceedings for the study of that alternative of a much-needed debugger in the municipality of Santiago. And I also know, firmly, that you're using this tool, which is this question, to try to talk to this parliament about something that you probably worry about, but which I care about, which is to have a sanitation procedure in Santiago Town Hall. But, by appealing to that experience that you have for all the years you've been a politician, deputy, and even mayor, you know perfectly well that this is a project of general interest of the central government, and you know perfectly well that it is a preliminary draft, what you ask, of ownership of the central government, and you know perfectly who is the owner, even who was the editor and where is all the information you need. It is more, even I would say to you that you know very well, as I do, that you have 90 Members in Congress of the nation who could actually ask you, by the article that says the Rules of Congress, that information you are asking for, that I am not the holder, but that, if I do know, to make the preliminary report for the declaration of environmental impact. This, of course, is not naivety. I know you know how nobody has to ask for information and, above all, who owns the information. What matters to me is to talk about what I'm convinced that you also care about, and it's about the commitment of the Government of Galicia to a debugger – I want to repeat it – of general interest, with a lady whose preliminary draft is owned by the ministry, in this case of the Macroma, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, and with a debugger with which this Government, since the year 2009, of course, is absolutely committed, and here we will have the opportunity to reiterate our commitment to go forward, knowing, as you know very well, that those who have taken forward the project are the central government. But you have to keep in mind something that I'm convinced you know. If there's no debugger in the county today, it's obviously not the responsibility of the Government of Galician Union. If there were obstacles in the processing of the debugger from the municipality of Santiago it is not by the Government of the Unity of Galicia, and you know all the procedure that, within the municipality of Santiago, there was, first, to select a debugger in a place that was later understood as wrong, and thus understood it as the body of watersheds of the State, since it was a place that had possible conflicts with floods, to then try to have another appropriate place, which is that of the Souto, and a commitment with an earlier project already presented, with a declaration of environmental impact already approved and with a presumption by the Government of the State...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u269	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u270	...it's committed. If you want to talk about Souto's EDAR, we're talking, but don't say we're hiding information because it's not true.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u271	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u272	I just asked him a question. Day and time to view that project. Counsellor, I have here in my hand the agreement signed by Mr. Angel Currás, Mr. Agustín Hernández Fernández de Rojas and Mrs. Liana Ardiles López, in which the investment commitment is assumed. We are talking about a project, a public service, not any reserved document that should be kept hidden from citizens, and much less from public representatives, who we are from. And I'll tell you where it's part of that problem. I have data from the project you have, but not officially achieved. For example, I know that instead of 59 million, as we say here, it costs 89,839,939, because instead of having to dig 400,000 cubic meters, as we say here, we have to dig 936,293. Because there's never a zone called O Souto, which is a virgin zone, a tree zone, you have to build a road a mile away, you have to build a collector over a mile, and I'm talking about a collector of 1,80 meters in diameter, that is, with a section of 3 square meters. We have to take a half-voltage line, that is, we have to destroy it completely. And on top of that, we pushed her away from a core of Santiago which is called Silvouta and which seems to me very well, because that's where my mother and sister live, but we put her next to three cores of the municipality of Ames who also have their rights. And by the way, the Ames Town Hall doesn't know that project. Counsellor, do not participate in this task of deception and concealment. Set the day and time to see that project. The rest are Chinese stories.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u274	As the other said: as you like, wherever you want and whatever you want, Your Honor. And I'm not a fan. [[Applause]] What is true is that you have at your disposal your lordship, and all the honourable Members of this Parliament, all the records of which this council is competent, absolutely all of them! You might ask me about any file this advisor has to process, and obviously you have political training partners in Congress who I'm convinced will be able to tell you where to ask, who is the owner and the project owner, this project. [[Interruptions.]] Your Honor, I know you have 90 comrades who don't reach you to form government in the central government, I know! But they come here to ask for the preliminary draft of the EDAR of Santiago. Go get him, and you can give him that information. [[Applause]] For the rest, you have open doors – I insist – at any time. And you'll have the chance to have all the information. But speaking of the really important, which is what I am convinced that you as a saint are concerned about, that it is to carry forward such an important project as the EDAR of Souto, what I have to talk to you is in the name of the Government of Galicia. And on behalf of the Government of Galicia, I can assure you that we are ready to sign that convention so necessary, that you have to lead the Central Government, and where you will also have to participate in the local Government. I'm convinced that you, also through your fellow constables, will once again make the same claim you're making here for that contribution that you'll have to put, by the way, the figure doesn't matter to me, but it's going to be about 20% of what you say. From what you say, it's not the number I have. But it's going to be 20% what you'll have to put on the Town Hall of Santiago, and I offer to go with you asking the Town Hall of Santiago to put that funding too, because what I can assure you is that the Government of the Union will put the part that corresponds to the Government of Galicia, and for that we will be able to make use of the new operational program of Feder funds, which are already available to those who have to lead this agreement to three parts, which is the Government of the State. In the meantime, what you have to be clear is that there is no trap on the part of the Government of Galician Union to provide information, Your Honor. Don't be mistaken, don't lie, don't tell what's not true. He has at his disposal the title files of the Galician Union that all have their names. They're at your disposal, but when you want to know a state file, and you know it very well, you have to ask the state. And I'm convinced that the state, in the same diligence, will also send you that file. By the way, the file that you should know since September 2013 because it was put on the public exhibition. I mean, not so much Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, but all citizenship, just like it's happening now with Burgo's laugh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u275	Quiet. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u276	...has had the opportunity to know and make all the clarifications and allegations. No, he had the opportunity to make all the clarifications. [[Interruptions.]] Your Honor, you know very well. That project was in your power...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u277	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u278	...and you didn't use it. You'll know why. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u279	Thank you. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the guarantee of payment by Pemex of fleets built on the Greek shipyards according to the agreement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u280	Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u281	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counselor, good afternoon. After the aerospace hangover we had yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u282	Silence, please, is in the floor of the honourable Member of the Bloc. Quiet, please! Quiet. Whenever you want, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u283	I see that time has passed and we're getting old in the way, but... let's go on. Counselor, I told you that we have aerospace hangover and we ask again today also for an older means of transport, known to humanity, such as the naval. And we asked exactly about Pemex and the fleets. And we do it not, of course, from a Nietzschean perspective of eternal return – we know that we are full after talking about this issue – but because it is also important to check the extent to which the news and the commitments of the German Government come. You remember that since 2012 you've been repeatedly talking about that agreement with Pemex. From 21 ships to two fleets, exactly two fleets. And we knew a new one recently about the difficulties facing the company to deal with payments to its suppliers and difficulties that supposed representatives of the company themselves put on the table in order to cope with the payment of fleets. You know – you know it perfectly well, in addition – that in the Vigo River, just a decade ago, they were hired in the naval sector 10,000 workers. They're barely 1,000 today. I mean, the same ones that existed in Vulcan two decades ago. So we can find ourselves in the trouble we're talking about. It has become a region where in the naval sector it created 30% of the wealth to be clearly downstream. And today's question is the following, and it's also an absolutely simple question of yes or no answer: Is the German Government willing to state that Pemex will face the fleet payments in time and form? It's very easy. I mean, if they're going to be delivered on July 16th – if I'm not mistaken that's the date of delivery – if you're going to face those payments. You second we can meet through the press, says they're going in time and they're going to be handed over, but the question goes further. After so many photos, after so many debates, after you've given us so many times for sale the fleets that rarely created 500 jobs in Ferrol and another 500 in Vigo, can you assure us today that they will be paid in time and form? Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u284	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u285	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Adam, after your reference to yesterday's debate, and since cordiality, and knowing that you are a great cinema, allow me to go back to the Gospel today. If I don't see in his hands the sign of the nails and put my finger in the place of the nails, and put my hand in his side, I won't believe it. That is indeed the skepticism of the Galician Nationalist Block with regard to any project that is good for Galicia. Indeed, the Galician Nationalist Block gives equal to the means of transport. If it's aerospace, they're suspicious. He said it yesterday. If it's terrestrial, automotive, they're suspicious. And if it's naval, they're also suspicious. They don't care. In the face of any project that is good for Galicia, you always intend to generate doubt about these types of projects. And in the case of Pemex, they've been doing it since the first minute, they haven't given this government a chance. You four years ago, since the opposition, have been suspicious of fleet contracts; you have been suspicious of the jobload expectations that would be generated with those fleets; you have also been suspicious of Pemex's entry into the capital of Barreras. And today, Mrs. Adam, with contracts, with more than a thousand jobs, and with fleets sinking into our yards, they intend to generate mistrust about their delivery and also to generate mistrust about whether or not they're going to pay the fleets. Whatever it is, the question will always generate mistrust in the population about any project that is good for Galicia. Well, speaking of Pemex, what I can tell you is that Pemex maintains its commitment to Galicia, that Pemex continues to drive the construction of the two fleets and the workload in both Barriers and Navantia, and of course this Government has full confidence that Pemex will continue to fulfil its commitments, because it has fulfilled all the commitments it has moved. So we'll continue to work to boost the naval sector. What the government cannot guarantee, logically, is whether a company pays within a certain time limit or another company, it just looks like we're talking about naval, automotive or aeronautics. He knows perfectly well that relationships between companies correspond to private income. But in any case, Your Honor, I have not heard the Navantia or Barriers who have any concern about the payment of the two fleets. So, if you'll excuse me, trust Galicia, trust the word of the Government that always fulfills, and trust the Greeks as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u286	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Adam's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u287	Yes, after his appointment, very well brought to the collation, we could also make a theological review. I know there are people who are most installed in the church's first parents, like Tertullian, to believe to understand. But I would rather go to Saint Thomas of Aquinas and see to believe. And there we are, really, that's the question. We won't believe until we have the data, and the data for all fleets is the delays. We're talking about that, after the two-flobal deal with Pemex in front of 21 ships, in front of the Langosteira tip, that's the reality. When you're talking about the aerospace, that's why we're comparing it, and we think it's absolutely necessary. Because, look, Counselor, the problem isn't really that we're betraying scepticism to this House, it's something that appears documented in the press itself. Perhaps the media are talking through false filtrations, or whether they're questions of belief or questions of faith, we don't know. But the reality is that everything that has to do with Pemex has caused a lot of concern, because you, the Greek Government, put 2 million on the table for Pemex's shopping barrier. And he could choose another question, which was to enter the very shareholders of Barreras, or Vulcano's own shareholdersship, another factory that, as I said before, is going through very serious problems, which currently has 90 workers and workers compared to the 1,100 that I had a decade ago. That's the reality of Vigo's laugh. So this is a clear question that we bring here. Are the fleets of Pemex – in the Ferrol River but basically we referred to the Vigo River, the Barreras – in time and form? We believe that this is an easy, simple and important question, because the commitments, Counsellor, not only are acquired through the headlines when they begin, but they must also be evaluated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u289	And the most important thing about public policies is to be able to evaluate them, so, Counsellor, we want to see to understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u291	Mrs. Adam, I understand and thank you for the appointment of St. Thomas, "see to believe," and I will answer, if I may, with one of St. Augustine's: "To go nowhere is worth any way." [[Laughter]] And that seems to be what the Galician Nationalist Block wants, to take Galicia anywhere. Because you're not worth anything, you're not worth a bet by the aeronautics sector, they're not worth a bet by the automotive sector, they're not worth a bet by the naval sector; they're not worth the bet by the naval sector, they're not. I simply invite you to visit the Ferrol River and visit the Vigo River, and to see that there are actually two fleets, derived from a contract signed by Pemex, as this Government has transferred, with that alliance that this Government has signed with Pemex. Those are realities, those are facts, and that's one of the elements that led to that in a very difficult context, when the naval sector had no workload and the naval sector was going through a lot of difficulties, this government was able to bring workload to Galicia. And Pemex was able to fulfill those commitments and these two fleets have been built over the last three years. I think that's the reality, I think the facts are there, I think they should, at least, recognize them, because they still don't recognize them. And now, I insist, they intend to create a doubt in the context of business relations on payments, which are being made on a normal basis; when companies themselves – I insist, one private and the other public – have not transferred any kind of mistrust or concern about the payments being made by Pemex. So if I may, I understand perfectly that the opposition of BNG to Galicia is permanent, to any industrial development in Galicia. It's permanent but I think the facts are simply there and, of course, Mrs. Adam, we'll continue to work for the naval sector. When we arrived at the Government, and after the Bipartite was here and being the Socialist Party in Madrid, they left the grades practically empty. Today the grades are almost all busy, with a clear recovery from the naval sector. And we will continue to support the naval sector, both in its innovation, in its diversification, in its formation, in its financing and also in obtaining more contracts. I deeply regret the lack of responsibility of the Galego Nationalist Block, trying to permanently generate the doubt, which is also extended to the rest of the opposition. And what I would ask them is that at least they recognize Galicia's successes, the successes of our companies, and the success of naval policy over the past few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u292	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the relationship of authors and authors who will be part of the delegation of Galicia within the framework of the 42nd edition of the International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires in 2016, as well as the literary and cultural programming that will be developed in it
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u293	Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u294	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Next April 19th, the International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires was inaugurated, an event that began to run there in 1975 and that, throughout these 42 editions, has become one of the most relevant cultural events, if not the most relevant, of all Latin America. This fair throughout its history has conciliated the presence of different figures in the history of literature, as may be the case of José Saramago, Paul Auster, Ray Bradbury, Eduardo Galeano or Camilo José Cela, among others, and has evolved historically. In this historical evolution we found ourselves with a turning point, which was in 2013, when the tradition of inviting a city as an honored guest of the celebration of this International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires began to be established. It began as this tradition or this procedure in 2013 with the invitation to the city of Amsterdam. In the year 2014 was São Paulo the invited city; in the year 2015, Mexico Federal District; and in this year 2016 is Santiago de Compostela. From the People's Group we understand this as an opportunity to highlight all that is Greek culture and literature, and in that sense we understand that the book, literary creation and in general the Greek culture have an opportunity to be the protagonists in this forty-second edition of the International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires. The presence of Greek culture in Argentina means, as I said before, an unbeatable opportunity to show the literary production and cultural creation of the Italian publishing sector, and in that sense it is also an unbeatable occasion for the Galician cultural and creative industry to show what their future projects are. In this sense, and bearing in mind the fundamental role of direction of this project, or of this stay, of the Galician culture in Bos Aires through the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, we would like you to explain to us what is the cultural literary programming that will develop by hand of the Council within the framework of the International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u295	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Fair of the Book of Bos Aires, no doubt, is a great challenge for the Greek culture, but it is also a great opportunity for the Greek creators to have an unbeatable external projection platform. It's a challenge because it's obvious that Bos Aires isn't any city. The links with Galicia are infinite, the contemporary Greek culture cannot be understood without Bos Aires, and the Greek community that is in Bos Aires because it is a substantial part of our country. Neither is the fair an ordinary fair. It is undoubtedly the main one, along with Guadalaxara in Mexico, the main fair of the book in Hispanic letters. And it's also a great challenge, since Galicia – as you well said –, through the invited city of Compostela, will be the successor of a city like Mexico and will be the forefather of a city like Paris. I mean, it's a link between two great world metropolises, with which it's obviously, apart from a challenge, a great opportunity. And this opportunity has to be oriented and it will basically be oriented to empower our creators, the book sector. The delegation of Greece will be composed of 30 writers, 30 authors, accompanied by bookstores, accompanied by publishers who will be and work for several weeks in Bos Aires, perhaps in the main showcase, in a general showcase for our culture. There will be exhibitions, there will be conferences, there will be scenic arts, there will be cinema, there will ultimately be a demonstration of the capacity of our creators and the cultural power of Galicia. And obviously Galicia must be up and, no doubt, she'll be up to it. There is a very broad, very participatory program, very coordinated, by the way, with the Town Hall of Santiago, with the main cultural institutions of the country, the RAG, the Galician Culture Council, with Argentine institutions, the embassy itself, the Argentine Academy of Letters, the Argentine Institute of Culture, and of course with the institutions of the community: Centre Galicia, Centro Galego, Colexio Santiago Apostle, etc. The program has already been presented and is now known to the media. We're talking about around 150 different events; many of them at their own fair and many of them also scattered around the Bos Aires city complex, in spaces of community and other cultural spaces. They participate, as I said, 30 authors, some as well known as Manolo Rivas, Freixanes, Fernán-Vello, Fina Casalderrey, Cesareo Sanchez, Doctor Carracedo, Ramón Villares, etc. I mean, we're definitely in the face of a challenge, we're definitely in the face of an opportunity, and we're in the face of a tremendously participatory event, at an event and a fair that we must be proud of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u297	Thank you, Counselor. [[Applause]] Replica, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u298	Thank you, President. Counsellor, first of all, thank you very much for your intervention. Of course, it is very important that Santiago de Compostela can develop as a city that is invited to value precisely what was being said up to now is the dynamic and creative future of the publishing sector and of the literary sector of Galicia, and ultimately of all culture and of all Greek literature. But it's also understood as an opportunity to value what the territory itself is, Galicia itself, and to make it known as destiny as well. Actions are probably also carried out. What we would like to know is also a little bit of the activities that will be carried out, or what actions will be taken from the Council, so that this event, in addition to a way of strengthening links with the Greek community in Argentina, with the Argentine nation itself, is also a vehicle to enhance Galician territory as a known destination in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u299	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u300	Thank you very much, sir. Well, as I said in the first intervention, we're talking about a stand located in the center of the La Rural area, of the La Rural Exhibition Palace, in the Boaerense neighborhood of San Telmo, in which we're going to have a stand about 200 meters away. There will be, as I have already said, very wide, very diverse, very plural programming on that stand, more than 150 events, authors, publishers, booksellers. That's why it's estimated that they're going to happen around a million people. For three weeks Compostela and Galicia will be on the front line of cultural dissemination and cultural promotion in Bos Aires, and not only in Bos Aires, but in the Latin American ensemble. With which, no doubt, it is a great opportunity because it is an opportunity to open doors, to open doors to our culture, to pose business opportunities for the companies – editorials that will attend there – to develop cultural projects, and, ultimately, for mutual enrichment among the creators who will participate in very different events – as I have said –, bound to the world of letters, linked to audiovisual, bound to cinema, bound to stage arts, etc. And undoubtedly, as you said well, it has a meaning, a singular transcendence, and there's a very important aspect: culture, no doubt, because it's history, it's territory, it's landscape, it's tradition. And we are perhaps in front of the biggest window that there will be in Latin America at that time to be able to boost something as important to us as our culture and how our heritage is and, by extension, one of the main reference axes of our culture, of our heritage, as is the Way of Santiago, so that there may also be a potential return from the tourist point of view and can be promoted touristly also the Way of Santiago, Compostela and by extension the Galician set. In any case, we are facing a collective project, a participatory project, where we participate in many cultural institutions in the country, and plural, absolutely plural. And there's no more to look at the paper of authors that will be there, where – let's say – the main point is that both Galicia and the Galician community in Bos Aires are proud of their culture. And they can be calm, ladies and gentlemen, that undoubtedly all the actions that are being developed and will be developed in this matter if for some reason they are marked is, first, by austerity, and, second, by sobriety, because parties we've already had in the past enough and we know how they've ended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u301	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and five other Members of the G.P. of Alternative Gallega de Left, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the suspension of the revamping tests provided for in the LOMCE schedule of application for this school, in particular those affecting the sixth primary education student
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u302	Question by Ramón Vázquez Díaz of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And good afternoon, Counselor. It will agree with me that one of the greatest advances in contemporary education systems was to learn about process-centred education and not just about results. Therefore, with this educational model, a model of evaluation known as formative was implemented, i.e. a model that consists of three phases of evaluation: an initial evaluation of the student, to know his/her starting level; a continuous evaluation, to perform the necessary adjustments in the teaching and learning process; and a final evaluation, to verify the results achieved by the student. The formative evaluation covers not only content, but also methodologies, objectives, the whole teaching and learning process, through a process that is systematized in teaching centers. And that's what teachers do every day at the schools in the schools of the Greek schools. On the other hand, the LOMCE, that far-fetched law, rescued a model of finalist evaluation, which has already passed, and a model represented especially by revalids, with only one purpose: the purpose of selecting, the purpose of classifying, labeling and comparing not only the student but also the educational centers themselves. And that's why the families strongly rejected the third-party revals in the past course. And that's why families and the entire educational community reject LOMCE, because it's a failed law. Today even the high school student expressed his rejection of LOMCE in a massive and very powerful mobilization against this evil law. LOMCE sanctifies external evaluation, degrading the teaching function, because, Counsellor – you know very well – the centers were already evaluating. The centers regularly submit individualized evaluation reports to families, teachers carry out continuous evaluation every day in the classroom, teachers even have individualized interviews with families where they clearly explain the evolution of their children, the difficulties, the problems and the progress they make. You degrade the teaching function with the revalids, you degrade the teacher in a clear and obvious way. That's why families mostly refused the revalids of the past course, and that's why we ask you the following question, Counselor: Will you insist on forcing children and girls to do useless revalids that don't bring anything to families and that have no pedagogical content for children and girls? Will they again insist on submitting children to an absolutely unnecessary stress that does not provide any information relevant to families or children? Will they insist on applying a law that already...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u304	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u305	...have you been paralyzed at the Congress of Deputies, Mr. Román Rodríguez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u306	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, let me tell you what gives me the feeling that we're in a kind of dja vu. About a year ago, over these dates, they also made messages that are very similar to what they're looking at today, they insisted on calling them revalids to something that's not a revalid. He was talking about rankings, he was saying there was going to be an impact on the students' files. And it has been shown that in the evaluation of third and not in the evaluation of sixth – it is said to be active and passive – neither will there be rankings nor will there be direct impact on the file. Also a few months ago, about a year ago, if you made a call because to a sort of insubmission, if you generated a warning we understand that you would not need it, if you generated alarmism. To some extent it was suggested that there would be chaos in the centers with the evaluation of third. It was done, and it was done with total normality, and it was seen that this politicization strategy of something as ordinary as it is to make an evaluation in educational centers was groundless and there was only behind political interests, unclear political interests. And it's somehow coming back to the same story. I remember that it was also mentioned at that moment of stress, that the children were stressed out, and it was even said that they were going to cry. Eventually, after that evaluation, time put each of us in place and the children themselves said in the media that he was "tucked," right? Why are we talking about, gentlemen? We are talking about that the evaluation – as you well say – is complementing the ordinary evaluation of the centers, and is complementing a process of evaluation, by the way, very similar to other countries around us where it is done with total normality. And what does that allow us? What's the evaluation for? Let us have more information, so that the Administration has information and that information will serve to implement measures aimed at correcting those weaknesses detected in the evaluation itself. You will know – because I had the opportunity to tell you, I repeat – that the third-party evaluation was worth one thing: it was worth detecting those centers where there were greatest weaknesses in the education system – which, of course, were not published – and it was worth implementing program contracts that were basically oriented to correct those weaknesses. For what? To have greater educational quality and to have greater educational equity, and to act and strengthen education in those centres that need it most. And you'll really understand that you can't qualify in any case as useless, because we're acting around the students who need it most. In any case, I'm going to tell you, for your tranquillity: the sixth assessment, although they repeat it once and a thousand times, will not assume any kind of ranking, will have no impact on the student's specific file...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u308	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u309	...and if it will serve to have accurate information and implement measures that are oriented towards improving quality, of course the results, and also to put in place measures that can somehow guide and correct weaknesses and promote equity in the education system so that no centre...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u311	...and no student stays behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u312	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u313	Counselor, we insist on the question, because we see that you intend to insist on the same mistake last year. We do not reject the revalids, not just us, reject the ANPAs, reject the directors, reject all the opposition parties, reject the student, reject the families, reject the union representatives of the professor. Who defends them then? You alone defend them, we're all wrong except for you, this is your sense of democracy. Look, a type student, during his compulsory schooling period, up to 16 years of age, has to undergo approximately eight international external tests, in addition to the PISA. On the other hand of those eight tests, you'll have to overcome your third and sixth revals, in addition to the second and fourth diagnostic tests, and in addition the evaluation continues that the professor daily does in the centers. This is not just an obsession with evaluation, it's not a culture of evaluation; it's, of course, a useless, useless exercise of segregation and pressure to the student, with a purely finalist sense, to label the student and select him. That's reality, and that's why LOMCE is a segregating law. There are many autonomous communities that, in an exercise of educational responsibility, have decided to paralyze the application of revalids. We're not saying anything about the other Thursday. Revalites are an exercise of pedagogical reductionism, because they are based on the application of standardized tests to a wide group of students, when the evaluation has to be contextualized to the circumstances and educational reality of each child. Applying standardized tests to a student massively is a useless pedagogical exercise, has no contribution to families, nor to children. You have to echo, Mr. Counsellor, the demand of Galician families. You cannot assume the failure of Mr. Wert. Don't make Mr. Wert's failure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u314	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u315	...because if he doesn't follow his own future, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u316	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u317	Mr President, you will understand that I am in some frustration with my weak explanatory capacity and my weak ability to convince. I'm telling you that this is not revalid, and you insist; I'm telling you that there will be no rankings there, that there will not be an evaluation of rankings, that there will be no classification, a hierarchy, that there will be no labels; you insist; I think you should insist even more, because eventually the time comes to put each one in his place. And when there's no rankings, and when there's no direct impact on the student's file, well, here's nothing going on, we can say what we want, that, as we are in Parliament, nothing happens. Look, I think you have to be responsible for this matter, and I feel a certain disappointment when you say it's a useless exercise. Look, thanks to third-party evaluation, we were able to detect – the Educational Administration – certain educational centers where there were weaknesses in the student learning process. And we have been able to put in place measures through the programme contracts that are aimed precisely at strengthening the educational process in those centres with the greatest educational weakness. That's important to us; if it's a useless matter for you, I really regret it. And look, you'll agree, like me, because he's a Democrat, that the laws are about to be fulfilled, and if the law we have to comply with it, a responsible administration has to comply with it. And the vast majority of autonomous communities are going to do LOMCE and you know it. Without going any further, today the media say Andalusia is going to comply with LOMCE, you know they're going to comply with it. Some autonomys are what they do is they change their name, change their process and method, but all autonomous communities are going to do the evaluation process. And in the end there's a substantial difference. I believe that in all this debate – which we have been debating about LOMCE – there is a question that is not said and is true; that is, in democratic history there has been a succession of organic laws of education promoted and executed by the left of this country – executed, yes, but promoted and passed by the left. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those successive organic laws of democracy have undergone a lot of progress, but they have also assumed a lot of evasive, and there seems to be a vision that I'm not going to say totalitarian but almost absolutist thinking that it's impossible to modify a system that we know has evasis and that we know it has defects: one, the results compared to other territories; two, the failure of school. Because you don't tell me that after many decades of applying legislation, the country can have a 25% failure rate, which is a brutal collective failure. And don't tell me what aspects of LOMCE – we think of the basic FP, we think of itineraries, we think of the reinforcement of the trunks – are negative to the student, because I refuse to believe that you, who is a teacher, can have that opinion. Another thing is that you're politically interested in generating alarmism and you're interested in using education...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u318	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u319	...as a political tool, he is interested –as he has seen these days at the Congress of Deputies – to deceive citizens by means of a vote that is not a vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u320	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u321	...and that I violated a previous covenant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u323	But, deep down, here's what we have to think about is the families, the children and the children.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u324	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u325	And, of course, LOMCE, which may have its eels...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u326	Thank you, thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u327	...without a doubt it's the starting point for something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u328	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u329	...as important as it may be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u330	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u331	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u332	Thank you, Counselor. The following two questions will be debated in a cumulative way. This is a question from Mr. Daniel Rodas Chapela of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, and another from Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso of the Left Galician Alternative Parliamentary Group. Question by D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances foreseen by the Government of Greece for the fulfilment of legality in the label of the Greek mexillon Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left, on the measures provided for by the Italian Government in relation to the labeling of the Greek mexillon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u333	You start by asking the question Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u334	Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon, Counselor. The judgment we discussed earlier in the interrogation shows the reality of a sector facing two interests, two quite different models. On the one hand, the interests of the oligopolie of the conserva, which since 2007 has been replacing the yellow mussel with the cry, which continues to keep the low prices for more than a decade, even though the label as galego. And on the other hand, we have the interests of the extractive sector, with 3,300 batteries, 12,000 people who live directly in it, with fresh prices that are below those of a decade ago, that the lower associationism has a lower price, that the higher atomization, the less capacity to regulate the price, that the People's Party has dynamized all the options in trying to secure the sector – we speak of Opmega, we speak of Pladimega – that the demand for fresh remains stagnant and the prices remain frozen, as the prices of the conservation. The producer party is currently totally against the ropes. His last strategy comes to be this, that of differentiation, so that the Greek mussel has something more of value, so that he doesn't pack up crying by Greek and prevents consumer fraud. The judgment shows this absolute drama and gives the reason for a part of the producer sector. Anyone would accept this sentence as normal, but we see with astonishment how the employer asks you nothing more and nothing less than the intervention of the Regulatory Council, ask him for nothing more and nothing less than suspending it, while you – we saw it earlier – look at it elsewhere, or say that you're going to consult the sector or that you're going to see if a dialogue is set up to develop a new PDO where everyone can fit. And say it with your little mouth, because we're already in pre-election. Well, we all know who's carrying the large amounts of public money to labs, to renew the facilities. Yesterday: 27 million for the transformation sector, who supports the promotion of fairs and markets? Finally, who sends in the Council of the Sea on the subject of mythology? So the problem – as I said – is a model problem that you, along with the employer, try to impose, and that it is not another, more or less, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u335	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u336	...to preserve it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u337	Mr. Wheels, Mr. Wheels, please ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u338	...to replace...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u339	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u340	The question is, Counselor, rather than make you, who I already know the answer, is to do it to the sector: how long are we going to have to stop this double face? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u341	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Mr Fajardo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u342	Good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is, after the previous intervention of the advisor, one understands what the position and political bet of this councillor is. The first thing you must understand is that the discrepancy that she expressed with regard to the interpretation of European rules on PDO was clear in the judgment. The judgment is what comes to resolve the doubts and discrepancies, and the judgment expressly determines that the product of mexillon canned is also protected by the DOP and that, therefore, it is a fraud to use any type of mention to Galicia or to the Galician rivers to cane mexillon that is not covered by the DOP, whether it is Greek or not. So what I don't understand is that, existing a sentence, you say now that you have to interpret it. She's been played by a judge. And, moreover, from the European Fisheries Commission, you are told that there is no other interpretation than that given by the judgment. An adviser once said here that a responsible administration has to enforce the law. It seems that the Administration, in this case of the Galician Sea, is not responsible because it does not want to enforce the law. So that's the first consideration we have to make. The second consideration is that you will do with regard to the need for consumers in this country to be sure of what they are, because the judgment speaks of several very serious issues and expressly determines that the use of those expressions that are confused with the PDO makes and consists of acts of deception, acts of confusion, of scrutiny of the reputation of the alien and of violation of European, Community and State standards. If it doesn't seem serious to you that there are these five violations in the regulations, which are collected in a sentence, I don't know what you're going to expect from you to get this out of the way. Another question that I can't buy from you in your argument is that consideration that makes you that a part of the producers aren't collected at the PDO. The question is, why aren't they collected? Why don't you make a political impulse for them to pick up at the PDO? What you want is to end this PDO, what you want is to be in the hands of Anfaco and the big producer industries, which are extorting the sector by telling the Councillor that what he has to do is suspending the PDO. So you have to decide: either they're with multinationals and with big capital or they're with producers; or they're why they're still keeping fraud on selling product as a Greek that is not, or they're in defense of our product. Because there is one fact that is very significant: how do you justify that, having diminished the production of our mussel, which has increased the sale in fresh, besides, at the same time, if you continue to increase the sales of supposedly Greek messellon in the lines of this country? The figures don't match, there must be a very obvious percentage of fraud. What we say to him is, having this sentence on the table, what are you going to do to defend the designation of origin, but also to defend the right that consumers have to be properly informed of what they are consuming? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u343	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u344	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Wheels, Mr. Fajardo. I begin my speech by pointing out what our position is going to be to respect for the ruling in the defense of the Galician mexillion, which is only strict compliance with legality, which we have been doing from the beginning in a scrupulously manner, since, as you will know, this sentence is not going against the Union. That, I repeat, as I have already done in the previous intervention, which takes into account some statements here underlined, we must make in this answer another renewed request to see how to get a little moderation and measurement and a lot of scientific and normative rigour in addressing the issues that affect this issue of activity. I ask for this because in either of your interventions, or in any of your initiatives' explanatory statements, I find statistical data, legal or legal basis, or even proven to make some statement out of reality. It's said that this councillor has put himself in a position away from the defense of the producer sector as a whole, and I think this remains, yes, away from reality. Perhaps it should be borne in mind that, in this sector, the miticulturer, 70% of the sector's income is not within the PDO and that it only covers 14% of Galician production. In this sector, the miticulturer is particularly relevant to the transformation of the product, which takes 40 % of the demand and generates around 38 million euros of invoicing annually. In this sector, the midwife gives this important movement to a transforming chain that has 12,000 jobs here in Galicia, most women, and is basically formed by pemes. That's why we're going to defend this whole set, the whole producer sector, the transformer and everyone that lives from the mussel, everyone. That's why we need to make an important distinction from what we call fraud, which is to pack a foreign mexillion as a Greek, deceiving the consumer and with what we have zero tolerance. Another question that would be to define that cultivated in Galicia and transformed into Galicia. We must therefore be very careful to distinguish one thing from another, so as not to convey to the consumer a wrong idea and to promote a concern that goes against who makes the preserve prepared with the Greek mussel, by Greek companies and in Galicia. If what we're trying to shorten is fraud – which we share – we think it's also wrong to defend our ability. All we have to do is look at Galicia's international trade balances where Mexillon refers to itself in order to realize how continuous and rigorous inspections can be handled, and in this we see how the records raised in 2014 or 2015 only 2,3 % of them cheated at the origin of the labelled product. Zero permissivity and zero convivence, and much less extortion or clumsiness. This advisor will do nothing against the law. He will always have it ahead and equipped to defend the general interest of the Greeks and the sector. Once upon a time we have been given the reason in the trials above who saw in us acts of attack against the Regulatory Council. But if the criticism is precisely that we do something to give legal security to the sector and the differentiation of our product, of course we will be in opposite positions. We defend the PDO, we defend the PDO from the Galician mussel, we did it from the beginning, we pushed it and in that defense we want to know and apply a line that is legally firm and not that it enters into contradictions at once. If that's going against the mussel, I think someone's wrong. I say this because, first, we have a judgment that doesn't create jurisprudence, because it can only be created by the Supreme Court. Secondly, we have a judgment which was taken below the regulation adopted in 2008 and the previous regulation could not acquaint the processed mussel, because Europe has said so to us. Thirdly, we have a response from the European Commission to ratify a report from the European Union's Scientific Committee for PDO, which considers that the heat treatment – as I explained earlier – changes the physical and organoleptic characteristics of the product. Fourth, we have a Greek decree, 124 of the year 2010, which collects that, in order for a product to be labelled as a Greek, the raw material must be Welsh and the preparation must be carried out in Galicia – of nothing said the judgment –. And fifth, we have a PDO that certifies only 14% of the total mexillon, and that means there are over 200,000 tons as Greek as the ones left out and that the main Greek destination of our production and our processing companies are left in limbo. I'm sure you, in the light of these considerations, will understand that we must work with certainty and not with impulses. That's what we left to others. I know you've never had government duties, but governing demands responsibility, and that's what we're going to apply above interested voices and partisans. We defend in the past and now the Greek mussel, and we're going to keep doing it. Tell me one single position of this council against the PDO or against the producer sector itself. You tell me if you've spoken to all sides. I can tell you, contrary to what Mr. Rhodes was saying, that I didn't have a single meeting, I didn't have a single conversation with Anfaco-Cecopesca; I had many meetings with the producer sector outside the Regulatory Council and we're trying the dialogue between the parties to get a regulation in which they all feel represented. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u345	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u346	Look, Counselor, once again, he's trying to fool the sector, the same way he tried to cheat on the Aquaculture Bill. Then his face was clearly seen, just like here. This has changed dramatically since 2007, since certain ones, certain yellow canneds had gone to Chile and become producers there. So we're talking, as I told you earlier, of a battle, of a battle that there's a certain collective, that has interests there too in Chile, that tries to shield its production model, and its productive model goes so that the mussel for transformation has a low price, and that low price is what you're doing, for example, today most of the product in conserved is foreign and not Greek. So you have a double moral when you say you support the PDO and at the same time you tell us that it represents only 14%, or that we are going to consult Brussels, or that we're going to see if Madrid decides for us. Let us see if we have managed with dialogue, because we have not, if we are able to convince these, to see if we are able to put the Anfaco sector inside the PDO to completely eliminate the problem. So you have a double position, the double position that has been maintained historically in the sector, and that goes to the sector itself as it once said: to confrontations and rivalries and not to have the ability to maintain a criterion on price. And, above all, you're lying when you say zero tolerance. We're all aware of the reality of the sector, that most of the processed mussel is not Greek, but it's from outside. That's the real reality, and you just have to see the statistics that exist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u347	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u348	Therefore, Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u350	...stop double the face...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u351	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u352	...and once and for all take your face off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u353	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Replica, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u354	Well, once again you're unable to justify your claims. Of course, if you're the most responsible of the board, and you don't understand that, according to you, 70 percent of the producers are not in the PDO, it's an anomaly, it's not understandable. If that's because of the lack of political will that this designation of origin is being embraced. So here's the first default action of a councillor, which aims to end this designation of origin in order to defend the interests of multinational conservation producers, many of them already implanted outside Galicia. Look, when we talk about security, we also talk about the safety of the user, the end consumer. And the only security that the end consumer has is that what he's consuming is that this is the DOP. Why?, what are the mechanisms that are used for that control of what is inside the cans?, what are the protocols?, how many quantities are controlled?, how long?, what are you linear?, what are the samples that are done to show that what is being controlled, what is being sold as Welsh is? The only guarantee that it's 100 percent of what you're eating is that this one's covered by the PDO. However, the judgment itself makes it clear that they are taking advantage of the reputation of the PDO in this way, which violates Community and autonomous legislation on the protection of designations of origin. But it goes further: in a so-called "use this image of ours about the origin of the product from Galicia is likely to generate a wrong decision in the consumer", a wrong decision in the consumer, a fraud. And what is inconceivable is that you say that you are appearing in the decree to mention the relative source of Galician origin in the labelling, where your article 2.2 clearly states that "the food products protected by protected designations of origin or protected geographical indications are excluded." So what's not received is that you come here to defend that you don't enforce the law. So, if you're an advisor who has the whole industry against and who is also unable to comply with the law, what you have to do is stop being an advisor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u355	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u356	...to march to your home and leave the one who defends the Greek product. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u357	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, of course, if I had behaved like you, tricking the sector or making things up, I'm sure I'd go home, but since I don't or will, I won't go home, I'll keep defending the sector. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to clarify a few things because I see you don't have them clear enough. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Regulatory Council, what are your skills? To draw up the regulation on the operation of the mark and to provide it to the relevant board in order for it to be published in the Official Journal of Galicia. And to develop the manual actuating protocol so that all producers and brand users can know the rules they meet. First question, you can't make the regulation, you have to do the council. You can't impose on people who enter the council. You're talking about taxes, but it's that we who rule believe in democracy, and people have to freely decide to enter the regulatory council. [[Murmurs.]] And it will enter the regulatory board when you have a regulation where you feel represented, when you have a protocol of action where you tell them how to behave with respect to the brand. [[Applause]] That's the problem you have, which you're here trying to connect a sentence that refers to a canteen factory, which already has a sanction also imposed on fraud by the Autonomous Community, because if they were packing Chile's mexillary saying it was German. And that's bad, and that's what we sanctioned and banned. But you're here to turn the handle around, and you know that the regulation that's in force today is that of the year 2000, where the transformation industry was not allowed to refer to the protected designation of origin. But what was said by the 2000 regulation is that, in exceptional cases, the regulatory council could at the request of producers or processors allow the use of Galicia's name when the mussel is outside Galicia. That can be done, because we want it to be precisely that it continues to be produced in cans of cans of preserve and frozen product of Galicia which can continue to go out into the whole world. If we fail to get the transformation industry to have to name Galicia when these conditions are met, what we will achieve will be the opposite effect of protecting our producer sector, because then they will have all the freedom of the world the transformers to pack what they want in their cans without any kind of problem. If we want to keep Galicia's name, we have to be able to sit on the same table, that the regulatory council will both support production and transformation. In that line of work, we want to keep insisting. And there's a lot of things going on here, but without any statistics. How can you say you're increasing import? I said it in my previous intervention: check the import and export balance data. In the Bipartite years Chile's average mexillon import was 76% higher than Chile's average mexillon import from 2009 to 2015. The 2015 megallon sales, and this doesn't have to go to any statistics anymore, just by reading the journals, which you're the one who gives the most to document, and seeing that the battery sector in 2015 had the highest income in the decade. And I can also tell them that we keep betting on the regulatory board, and we give it every year average for the operating expenses of the council itself between 30,000 and 40,000 euros. It's the regulatory board for all the designations of origin of differentiated quality of Galicia that most money receives for its operating expenses. We bet on the designation of origin. And only last year was a campaign to promote our product: "Love a Welshman," which was a campaign that greatly enjoyed the whole world, which was paid with money from all the Greeks, which was EUR 960,000. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you for a little help for the producer sector. I've already told you: I haven't had a single meeting with the transformation industry, not one; I've had several meetings with the rest of the associations that, representing the Greek producers who grow their mussel here in Galicia, don't feel represented by the council and want to find a solution to this problem. Don't confuse people with the judgment about a canteen factory. They don't put in the consumer's heart that phrase Mr. Rhodes said, that here the vast majority of the canned is not from Galician mexillon. Little favor do you like this to the sector, because you think about the great amount of benefits that are generated, because more than 40% of our production is transformed into Galicia by Welsh canneries and they scrupulously comply with the rule and identify our product. They help the producer sector by helping the designation of origin, but they help the dialogue tables, they don't ask me to go against the norm, because I'm not the one I have to do exactly the rules of the designation of origin, but the regulatory council itself. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece with regard to the European Union's claim to prohibit the activity of the trawling fleet at more than 800 metres deep
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u360	The last question, by José Manuel Balsairo Orol, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u361	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the latest scientific studies agree to highlight the positive evolution and the good state that most species present in deep waters. All this as a result of the effectiveness of the measures taken in recent years in relation to this sector and the activity itself of a fleet which is committed to a sustainable management of our marine resources. The scientific forums highlight the assessment and also the experience of Galician and Spanish in the location of the most vulnerable marine ecosystems, the hand of the Spanish Oceanography Institute and in collaboration with other countries. In fact, today we already know that it was possible to map more than one hundred and sixty thousand square kilometres of seabed throughout the Atlantic, identifying those most vulnerable spaces, and from which protection measures were agreed within regional fisheries organizations. The deep-water trawl fleet segment is the first interested in preserving the sustainable management of all these species, the sustainable management of the ecosystems in which their fishing develops, because this depends on the future of this activity. And consistent with these arguments, it does not seem right, Counsellor, some of the measures that have just moved the European Union. Community measures aimed at a generic ban on trawling in these spaces, particularly in waters exceeding 800 metres. The aim of the European Union is to extend these restrictions to other areas, where for the People's Group illogically they could continue to use boats with flags other than those of the Community countries. Madam Counsellor, the Galician Parliament, at the initiative of the People's Group and with the support of other political forces, has on several occasions expressed the need to defend a change in Community legislation on deep-sea fisheries management, in order to be compatible with maintaining the capacity of the fleet, its economic activity and the jobs it generates. The question posed by the People's Parliamentary Group and the question posed by this honourable Member is: what is the European Union's claim to prohibit the activity of the deep-sea trawling fleet in funds exceeding 800 metres? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u362	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u363	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, I tell you without palliatives that the valuation we make is clearly negative. I say this because the few nuances that can be introduced would come from the hand of the protection of sensitive or vulnerable areas by their biological relevance, either by the type of environment or habitat, or by the particular value of breeding or spawning sensitive species. Well, even these areas are at a very high degree outside the working areas of the ships of Greece, and that speaks a lot and good of our fleet, which uses arts with capacity or orientation to depths that may be prohibited. We would have more than 300 ships in that situation, even smaller crafts and could be at stake at 165 million euros, or the same thing: more than 35% of our fleet's income. So we can't be in favour of a proposal that threatens the viability of much of our fleet, which can fish in deep waters with trawling, sick and even, taking the matter to the extreme as some want, with long-lived. But this proposal is not bad for a matter of time, but for two questions: First, by taking the road to brakes, to diminish or ban drags, and we defend that there are no good or bad arts, but good or bad uses. And if we look at cases like those of drifting arts, we could even see in that lot appliances like the trail of old age. The second one has special emphasis on curbing the catch of fishing in many geographic areas with other background arts and for other species, and if we don't think of the berthella, which has been within that prohibition and which is captured mainly with longrange in our area and also in the Great Sun. So we have two questions that mark us a negative trend and we have two aspects that come up with good arguments to think otherwise: One, the Commission's proposal to expand this possibility of banning international waters of NEAFC V, VI, VII and XII, covering the Hatton Bank area. And two, the proposal brought up in France completely prohibits the bottom trawling, and the follow-up of this proposal made by the main fishing company in the gallo country. That's why we're working on nudging and reducing this threat, knowing that the proposal does not have a predictable result in environmental effects, as we're now avoiding sensitive areas and even reducing the trawl footprint on the Great Sun fishing areas and also in the Cantabria. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u364	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your information, for your assessment, but above all, thank you very much for your willingness to address this issue with complete determination on the part of the Government of Galicia. We believe that this position should be taken in all cases where our fleet, an important fleet in the European Economic Community, which is the Galician fleet, is affected. Even knowing that both in our locker and in the Gran Sol locker aren't many of the points where you work at a depth of more than eight hundred yards of what we're talking about today. But it is true, and you have insinuated him, that some do not defend this same posture. Some defend a triumphant ideological criterion of pseudoscience and environmentalism and only defend a part of the fleet. Of course, since the People's Party, and now you've just confirmed it since the Government of Galicia, we've been defending the fleet as a whole. Each fleet has its own problems, but we don't stand in favour of a fleet, we stand in favour of all the German fleets. Because, ultimately, it's German capital and everyone who goes there is or a good part of them, they don't have either because they're all Germans. That's why we only defend everything together. But, Counselor, you know that in your day we were able to curb a position similar to the one we're talking about today. We managed to stop her, and we managed to stop her from the Government of Galicia and from the People's Parliamentary Group from Galicia. And what we want today is to tell the Government to follow the same path we're following at its own time to see if it's possible to follow that path and block a decision that seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u366	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u367	...a decision by the European Union which seems unfair to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u368	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u369	And let's wait, Counselor, because next week...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u370	The reply, Mr. Balsairo, is understood perfectly well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u371	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u372	Thank you very much. Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u373	Well, the replica doesn't seem to be of much interest to me, but I would really like to put on... yes, I see that neither the question nor the answer are of interest to us as a Government if we are interested in defending the trawl sector here, in Madrid and in Europe, where it is necessary, and we will continue to do so even if you have no interest in it. [[Interruptions.]] And on this line we're working, and on this line, as we did with drifting arts, we're going to work with that regulation that tries to ban deep-sea fishing. That's why we set up a working group with the sector itself, which started walking today morning, and we've always been looking for information from the sector itself, because they know better than anyone how to protect funds, and so it's being believed. We have scientific data, because ICES itself told us that the trawl footprint in the Great Sun has been reduced to more than 21,000 square kilometers and in the Cantabria in another 17,000 square kilometers, and that the trawl is not used in 74 % of the total fishing area of the Great Sun and 85 % of the Cantabria. We have been with the representatives of the Committee on Fisheries of the European Parliament and have brought our arguments to them. We also held the same meeting with the General Fisheries Secretariat, where we also brought our arguments to him. And we'll be with other affected regions; next week with Brittany in the Atlantic Arc. We'll be with the Director General of DG Mare also next week, who we'll send our arguments to. And we also want to propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u374	Silence! Quiet, please. Quiet. End, Counselor. Go ahead, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finish the whole thing quietly. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u375	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like it if you had regard to the fisheries sector, because we are here trying to defend a position together, sector and administration, and to look at all the arguments that we can make to the decision-making bodies of the European Union. We also want them to allow us to explore fishing as planned to open fishing opportunities in NEAFC at Hatton Bank. And that's why we're going to keep insisting, even though some people seem to be upset that from Galicia sometimes we're also dealing with the Government of Madrid, to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u376	Mr. Wheels, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u377	...to defend the interests of our sector, and we will continue to do so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-13-DSPG149.u378	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here.
