ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u1	Good morning to all of you. We're going to start the session. Well, good morning to all again. Before we begin with the agenda, it seems to me appropriate to inform you what the development of this plenary is going to be like. More or less, because I don't know the exact hours, it depends on what they're talking about; then the scheme, more or less, is that we will now proceed to the vote of the members of the Social Councils of the University of Vigo and Santiago de Compostela; then we will discuss a legislative text, in particular the coordination text of local police; then we will suspend the full and restart it at four o'clock, so that we can attend the Spanish medals. Agenda Development Changer
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u2	And by the afternoon of today I also report a change in the agenda, which, after discussing the commission of inquiry – which will be around, at about nine and ten o'clock at night, nine and a quarter – we will proceed to raise a question, which is, in particular, the number 50740 of the People's Parliamentary Group. And I also use it to report that tomorrow will be an uninterrupted debate, tomorrow I don't know how we normally stop the other days, and it's planned the end of the morning around eight and a half o'clock. As always, votes will be warned. Let's start with point 1 of the agenda. Election of three members of the Social Council of the University of Vigo and four members of the Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u3	The Bureau of Parliament, at the meetings of 23 May and 6 June 2016, was informed of the vacancies of members of the social councils of the universities of Vigo and Santiago de Compostela by expiry of their term of office, and subsequently, according to 21 June, after the hearing of the Speaker's Board, agreed to its inclusion on the agenda of the plenary and the opening of the deadline for the formalization of nominations until 27 June. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June 2013 of the Galician University System, the members of these councils shall be elected. After the deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 27 June, after qualified proposals, agreed to draw up a single closed list for each of the social councils, in which the names of the candidates and the proposed candidates and the parliamentary groups propose, as well as their transfer to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups, are in alphabetical order. The election, in accordance with Article 91(1) and (2) of the Galician Parliament Regulation, shall be secreted by letters and by alphabetical order of surnames. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the ballot previously delivered by the services of the House, in which the names of the candidates and the candidates proposed shall be recorded, and the corresponding boxes shall be marked with a stamp, up to a maximum of 6 for each social council. The paperboards of the different tips in the color are different, which corresponds to the badge shown in the ballot box where they are to be deposited. Empty votes will be considered not to mark a box, and null votes will be considered when the names of other persons or other signs are written. When the scrutiny is carried out, they will be declared elected or elected if they get the most simple. I guess they're already handing out the paperwork. If there's anyone who doesn't have it, ask for it. And I ask the first Vice-President and the vice-secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected, and the secretary to make the alphabetic call for Members of Parliament and Members. We proceed, therefore. Whenever you want, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u4	Thank you, Secretary. Is there anyone left to vote? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u5	We've already got the result of the scrutiny. I'll let you know. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. By the Social Council of the University of Vigo: votes cast, 73. Joseph Manuel Atanes Limia, 66; Don Javier Casares Mouriño, 66; Don Mercedes Castro Mouzo, 66; Don Jesús Graña Nogueiras, 55; Don María Elvira Larriba Leira, 55; Don Natalia Zunzunegui Garrido, 55. Null votes, 1; empty votes, 6. Social Council of the University of Santiago de Compostela: votes cast, 73. Don Mercedes Paula Alvarellos Fondo, 66; Don Juan Luís Castro Rodríguez, 55; Don Jesús Coucier Rivas, 66; Don Gerardo Denis Felipe Estévez Fernández, 66; Don Manuel Lolo Aira, 55; Don Manuel Martín García, 55. Non-voting, 6; empty votes, 1. So, having reached the simple majority they need, they are appointed as members of the social councils of the universities of Vigo and Santiago de Compostela. At the end of this point, we continue with the agenda, with point 2, corresponding to the legislative texts. Debates and votes of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u6	They remain for the full amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group, amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party of Galicia. The President of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr Agustín Baamonde, has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. The bill to which the Presidency refers, was entered in Parliament's register on February 15, 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 16 February 2016, admitted to this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The parliamentary groups of the Alternative Glaga de Left and Mixed presented amendments to the whole, which were rejected at the plenary meeting on 29 March 2016. The amendments tabled were 96 amendments: 28 of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left, 20 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 3 of the People's Parliamentary Group, 37 of the Joint Parliamentary Group and 8 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. At its meeting on 8 April 2016, the Commission appointed the following rapporteurs: by the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira as the incumbent and Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Ms María Soledad Soneira Tajes as the holder and Don Patricia Vilán Lorenzo as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, Mr José Javier Ron Fernández as the holder and Mr Ramon Vázquez Díaz as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms María Teresca Paz Franco as the holder and Mr Francisco Jorquera Caselas as alternate; and by the Joint Group, Ms Mónica Fernández Rodríguez as the holder and Mrs María Consuelo Martínez García as alternate. The inaugural session was held on 23 May 2016, which concluded its report; it was discussed and adopted at the Commission meeting on 10 June. As for the structure of the legal text, it has a single article, in which 20 articles are amended in conjunction with Title VII on the disciplinary regime of the Local Police Coordination Act. Ladies and gentlemen, up to this point the legislative route to this draft amendment to the Local Police Coordination Act in Commission 1a, which I am presiding over. It is now up to the plenary to debate and, if so, to adopt the corrigendum. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, defend the amendments. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Today we bring to this plenary the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st on the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on coordination of local police. We know that we must take urgent measures, especially because of the need for selective processes, to convene such processes to fill vacancies. And we need an urgent review of the current law, where we must incorporate the progress and updating of the law itself to allow a better response to the problems of Galician local police bodies. These mandatory incorporations are, for example, the Statute of the Public Employee – which we must include in local police coordination regulations its general part, the adaptation to some articles of this basic state-wide law. And there is also the entry into force of Law 4/2010, of 20 May, of the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps, where there are issues of mandatory reference that cause a change in the articulation within Title VII of Law 4/2007, which affects us to the shortcomings and its typology, to the listing of sanctions and to the prescription of both. Finally, we must also include the European Union Court of Justice judgement of 2014, when it considers age as a threshold for its own access to the personnel selection processes of Galician local police bodies. If it is true that 96 amendments have been tabled, of which 37 belong to the Joint Group, and 40 have gone ahead. Our group accepted an amendment, which is Rule 65.1, which was a substitute for the second activity, when local police staff had reduced their skills. And our group has dealt with amendments 2, 4, 5 and 37. They were referred to, a little bit, to ensuring continuous and practical training in the municipalities to jointly proceed to a shooting gallery, for example – this was our Amendment No 2, referred to in Article 7–. Or the fact in Amendment No. 4 about the knowledge of the Greek language, which was also traded. Amendment No. 5 was also referred to access tests with respect to knowledge of the English language. And number 37 was also traded and included in a second bis additional provision with amendments submitted by PSOE and AGE. On the other hand, we understand that if important steps were taken in the presentation itself for the amendment of this law, but we understand and consider that it remained the way forward. The review of the police model we have must ensure coverage for all the Greek territory, which must develop its task in the best possible conditions. We've reached this plenary and we don't know if there's still a small margin of manoeuvre all over the place, if we can rethink it. We are already in Commission 1st, in the report on the motion for a resolution, saying that we are going to keep all the amendments tabled. And I'm going to pretend again in Amendment No 1, which was about Article 9, where we talked about uniformity and where we understand that all local police members must have PPEs that are relevant to the prevention of work risks. We were told that it was rejected because it was collected in Decree 60/2010 of 8 April, so it develops Law 4/2007, for coordination of local police in matters of uniformity, accreditation and technical means. Article 23 in means of collective provision, paragraph 2, states: "... media that will go in police cars that normally provide operational services", among which the anti-balls vest appears. But it appears this way, without further specifying anything. Antiball vests must be individual, female vests and male vests. They're bulletproof vests, punches, antibodies and traumas. And they gave this decree the two-year term to guarantee the entry into force of the decree, but reality today is not in line. There's nothing for individual vests. It is also given the circumstance that agents and agents who have associated with their vehicle patrol a pair of bulletproof vests to be used by rotations along the day they use that vehicle have the problem that cutting – also customised – may not give the desired coverage to the police who employ them. And the problem of bulletproof vests is a complaint not only from Galicia, but from the rest of the state; even in many municipalities, where there can be a hundred local police, there's only one provision even less than ten, which for nothing guarantees neither safety, but also for matters of hygiene. Even women, if they don't have a vest adapted to their anatomy, can cause some kind of wound, as happened at some point in the state, and they've even been noticed to refuse to use them. So we understand the provision of the service in appropriate conditions and with all the technical and operational means necessary for the performance of the functions themselves. And we continued with the cutting of material, where even in some municipalities, about twenty police officers, only one could have weapons, because this justified the provision of weapons, which you have to have a gunman, a shooting gallery, etc. Or also Amendment No. 3, where we think it's important, especially in the tests of access to local police bodies, that they can include different tests, and I made them fake that all people present have to bring together the right features for the proper functioning, for the disposition they have in the exercise of their activity for citizenship. Or also Amendment No 6, where we consider union representation and the Town Hall important, especially at the time of all proposals, training, schedules, work shifts. Or number 7, on Article 55, where he speaks of the pregnancy of local police personnel, or of police officers in the municipalities that have not constituted the local police body, to which the law 31/1995 of 8 November provides for the prevention of occupational risks in relation to maternity protection. Here we collect the assessment of the risks of pregnant workers or recent delivery, and agents, procedures or working conditions that can negatively influence the health of workers themselves or the fact of any activity. And we're not only good for them to move on to a second activity, because we must also consider the right to abstain from work or the right to pay for the performance of prenatal examinations and delivery preparation techniques, justifying this action within the working day. Amendment No. 8 to Article 55, which has not been taken into account either, on the establishment of the working day, schedules, rests and other conditions, which would be the object of negotiation with trade union representatives in accordance with the terms laid down by the applicable legislation. There are major problems in municipalities, especially in cities, and especially right now, when this law is passed, for the urgent coverage of vacancies, the work schedule, the development of the relationship of jobs, etc. Or even Amendment No 9 to Article 64, on the medical report of the corresponding Sergas optional professional(s). We understand that it is important that, regardless of whether this person has a Sergas doctor or not, if he should look for a neutral person, more official or more transparent to prepare the medical report. Amendment No. 35 to the single additional provision on local police services, where the local police officers and police officers in Galicia will be required to receive equal gender training and prevention and fight against it. In addition, in all local police bodies there will be a group of agents with a positive assessment of gender-specific training and awareness-raising and gender-based violence, which will meet the demands generated in relation to the protection of victims during the 24 hours of the day, every day of the year. The municipalities can sign a partnership agreement so that they can provide a joint service which guarantees the best protection for victims and, above all, quite homogeneous training. This was already collected in Law No. 11/2007 of July 27, which was the Greek Law for the Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Gender Violence. Here if there's a slightly firing criterion. We know you're getting trained, but you don't get to the whole local police. Then there are also some municipalities that are more interested in training. So we believe that it must be homogenized and offered the same type of training. All agents must have, and have the right to, the same training throughout the territory of Galicia. Or also Amendment No. 36 to the single bis transitional provision on the review of the sanctions office. And I'm going to leave comments on the disciplinary regime to the end. We were the parliamentary group that we tabled most of the amendments on this regime. Looks like we don't have room for manoeuvre, we're tied up. We know that the basic and legal pear of the National Police is the Armed Institute of Civil Nature, but it must be a disciplinary regime adapted to the reality of our time, where there are existing evas, and it seems we cannot contemplate improvements. I believe it is necessary to question all things to try to improve them and not to attack them as such, to limit the exercise of the rights of citizenship and to punish the conduct of those who watch for our safety, at the same time the only ones invested with the power of the legitimate use of violence; it is no easy task. This standard is designed for a body with a different organizational structure and functions than the local police. It would not only be appropriate, if not necessary, for local police bodies to have a regime adapted to their own organization and functions. So, in the disciplinary regime itself, about the amendments we tabled, I would like to highlight, for example, Article 79, what we made a substitution amendment: the violation of professional secrecy and the lack of proper secrecy with regard to matters they know because of their office, whenever the development of their own police work, which causes prejudice to the administration, to persons arrested or investigated or to any other person affected by police investigation or to use that knowledge for the benefit of the person himself would work, which here we also coincide with another parliamentary group, in this case with the BNG. And also Amendment No. 16 on sexual harassment and labor harassment, which appears much more specified in the amendment we present. Or Amendment No 17, on non-aid, which is a fault that we consider to be quite serious. Or even – which is not considered in any of the articles presented to the disciplinary regime – as if the recurrence of several faults would be punished. Or Amendment 19 – which we have a few – about the display of weapons without cause that justifies it, as well as using them in service or out of it, violating the rules governing their employment. Or on the 20th, about the misalignment, loss or neglect of the own local police officer of the weapon itself. And in Galicia, unfortunately, we have several cases in the National Police Corps. Or, within the paragraph of serious shortcomings, the lack of even repeated performance. A person who develops the local police work has to have an awareness of the work he's developing and a great responsibility. Or we're going back to even the number of faults or the revision of them with the change of regulations. Even in the last of the different paragraphs set out in Article 85, where the limitation period for penalties would begin from the day following that on which they acquire firmness. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u11	Good morning to all and to all. The first thing to say is that Alternative Gaga de Left was right when on March 29, 2016 we presented a refund amendment to the whole by referring to it itself, in which the reform of the Local Police Coordination Act was a necessary but late reform, and in which the text that was offered to us was an epidermal text, which remained on the surface, in aspects where it was fundamental to lay down to make a determined step forward in the professionalization of the body of local police. And we also said that because it was necessary to avoid the sectarian, cliental or partisan use of this security body, understanding that it offers, in our understanding, a public service of proximity, important and fundamental to the citizenship of Galicia and therefore that it must be offered in equality conditions throughout the Greek map. Alternative Glaga de Left presented 28 amendments, focusing above all on aspects that were not dealt with in the text that the Executive offered us – you have to say so –. And none of the 28 amendments were directly accepted. If 12 were rejected and 16 were traded, along with others of the PSdeG, or even some of the BNG, but above all traded, so if they were supposed to improve with respect to the text they offered us as output, but always with a downside in the contents, with a downside in the numbers, with a decrease in the quality of what was intended to be achieved with the amendments presented by the Alternative Left Gaga. So let's start with the rejected ones. We, when we had the whole debate, spoke of the need to insist on the need to establish an effective mechanism for monitoring and observance of the strict compliance with the terms laid down in the law so that this function of coordination and unification would be given which marks the law itself. That amendment, which is our Amendment No 1, has been rejected, and we understand it to be an important amendment. And it's not said by Alternative Gaga de Left, it's also by the local police themselves, the local police of the various municipalities. They say that this control is necessary to advance in opposition processes, which today are paralysed in some municipalities for two or three years, and we can cite a restriction of them: Gondomar, The Boat, Nigrán, Sea, Betanzos, Lalin, Vigo, etc., a long et cetera. There, indeed, the processes are paralysed. And besides, they're taking another action that we understand is not beneficial, that it's hiring assistants to do the job that a local police should do, and we understand that the police officers have a maximum time, but they're extending that time with permission from the Galician Council and the Galician Public Security Academy, which is not doing the work that they should take control of all those processes. And it's happening that there are even municipalities where the assistants are developing single shifts; and the assistants help, as the word itself says, support the work that a local police should do, but they shouldn't replace it. So we understand these situations that must be solved and that they must be resolved and that the role and responsibility of the Galician Union is not to escape their responsibility, but to assume it. That's why we understood that amendment was important. Other amendments that have been rejected were those that had to do with representativeness in the Coordination Committee, such as our Amendment No 2. Others, for example, speak of the ratio, of the necessary ratio, which was our amendment number 6, where, in fact, it seems that, perhaps, the Left-Galga Alternative exercises as an extremist, but not. What we're asking for was that the municipalities that contain a local police force and exceed the figure of 5,000 inhabitants have an obligation to maintain a minimum permanent ratio of 1.4 police per 1,000 inhabitants. It's a demand that exists in the local police force itself. The fact is that, for example, in Murcia – in Murcia law – and in other communities of the state it is established that the number will be six police officers, a cable and a sergeant; or – we commented on it in the debate in full – in the recent draft law presented in Andalusia a minimum number of five members – in article 12.1 – in the localities of more than 5,000 inhabitants. And we repeat: the ratio is estimated to be 40% less than the staff that would be required in all the municipalities of Galicia in total, in sum, 40% less. In Galicia they are giving themselves anomalous situations with municipalities that have only one police officer or two locations, or 18,000 municipalities with ten police officers, and all the big cities have a staffing deficit. None of the 129 municipalities with local police comply with the ratios. We understood, therefore, that it was necessary to attach, in some way, that process. Other rejected amendments had to do with the dispensation of requirements – our Amendment No 8–. We have logically left the multiple proposals to improve access to the requirements, to the different categories of the body, which are Amendments 13, 15, 17, 18, 19 and 22, on access to the category of inspector, lead inspector, steward, etc., that were all rejected. And so we can say about the concept of mobility, through our Amendment 24. If we can therefore welcome the compromises, which improve the text offered, but not the literature that welcomes it. We accept them because, consulting with the people who had moved in, they said it was better than nothing, but, of course, Alternative Left Galicia is not happy, because the only thing we can greet in that sense is Amendment No. 4, which was to propose a new article 22a, where we asked for administrative facilities so that neighboring municipalities could ensure the provision of public service properly when they did not have that possibility or that capacity for themselves. And that is done through our Amendment No 4, which has been negotiated, but logically we salute it. It speaks of the fact that when two or more neighbouring Greek municipalities, whose population does not exceed 40,000 inhabitants, they do not have sufficient resources separately to provide local police services, they can associate for the provision of these services. We understand that this is important, at least to give that facility or that possibility, and that is linked to the exemption from the requirements of Amendment No 9 to Article 31, where, in fact, before the exemption of requirements two years of time are granted to seek an association formula for the provision of services with neighbouring municipalities. We understand that this is important. Similarly, we regret that the People's Party does not accept the text that said our Amendment No. 10 to Article 35 and others, where we speak of the 20% percentage and three years old in the body in the same category for the contest. When the law says 25% and five years, we offered 20% and three years, and the transaction offered is to maintain 25%, a percentage that we consider to be high, and if you accept three years. In that sense, we welcome this aspect, which coincides with Amendments 12, 14, 16, 20 and 21, where we speak of these aspects of reserve a percentage for the competition and the years of antiquity in the category. Similarly, we welcome the agreement that amendments 25 and 27 to Article 44 should be dealt with as to the number of years that must be left to be able to move to retirements: it is five years for the case of commuters. However, what makes us not happy at all is the amendment that deals with our 5, 23 and 26, about what was a desire to reduce the terrible wage differentiation that exists within the local police, which can reach an average of EUR 800 per month, being identical to the age, the service and functions they offer; simply being the difference that they are in a municipality or are in another, and we intend to homogenize those differences and discrimination, which we consider to be unfair. And what is offered to us is a text – we understand – that says the following: "Article 48. Within the framework of the Galician Local Police Coordination Commission, it will determine the pay concepts that can be common to all municipalities, respecting the necessary independence of local authorities." Well, okay, it's a breakthrough, but leave us a little bit of doubt, because that "may be common" we'll understand that it's common to that level; we hope it's not a level of survival, logically, that common aspect, and that it's a level of wage and work dignity. The same can be said of other amendments, of our amendment number 7, which is being dealt with – along with 37 of the Joint Group and 7 of the PSOE – and which speaks of updating and regulatory development. And there it is taken advantage of to introduce that "in the period not exceeding six months since the entry into force of this law..."—we hope that it is true and does not happen as it has happened with others, discussed recently here, for example the regulation of the right to asylum, which has passed six years— "...approached by order of the competent safety adviser a regulation of horizontal mobility between the bodies of local police in Galicia, which must be negotiated within the framework of the Committee on Coordination of Local Police in Galicia." We defended in a more narrow way the different concepts of mobility, different requirements, so it becomes a little undersumed, but we hope that they will comply with what the law says, or that they will comply with others with what the law says. We hope they are others, that is,... and if we could be us, much better! but, of course, do not let time pass and that, as it is written here, as it already stands. We understand that it is necessary to advance in the concepts of improving professionalization through the improvement, precisely, of access to the local police station through clear, transparent processes, well regulated processes of horizontal and vertical mobility, too, because it is necessary to take into account vertical mobility, which is the one that takes place within the locality in the professional promotion itself. And, above all, what we said in the whole debate, avoid that endogamous "sound course", wishing always that the constitutional principles of merit, capacity, equality and publicity are the best indication that we are making progress in the professionalization of this public service, which is important and indispensable for citizenship. Well, there are a lot of other aspects that – we said – as a text so engrossed, the AGE amendments were precisely behind that corset, and it was very difficult – logically, it was seen with twelve rejected amendments and with the devaluation that occurs in the transactions – it was very difficult to improve, but we tried it. However, there are other aspects, quite a few, that the law of 2007 absolutely needs to improve, in order to advance in the single police force and in other aspects that have already been expressed in the whole debate, and that therefore still deserve a deeper work from the legislative point of view, a deeper work from the point of view of the participation of union and police officers who are developing the daily task of ensuring the safety of the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President of the Board. Mr. Ron had already said, in his intervention, that he had qualified this epidermal bill on his day. I believe that since the Nationalist Block Galego we qualify as partial or insubstantial, because it did not address the substantive issues that could, in some way, resolve or affect more positively in advancing all the underlying problems that exist in relation to the local police bodies in our country and, in general, with everything that has to do with the organization of state security forces and bodies, with that overlap of competences that exist between the different bodies, and that we have already manifested in the whole debate that it was necessary to advance in the development of the Law 8/2007, so the Galician Police is created. And also, just as Mr. Ron finished, we then – and we continue to advocate, of course, today – that Law 4/2007, of coordination of local police, needs, after more than nine years since its entry into force, a thorough review to – say – adapt it to the real needs of our country's citizenship. Having said this, I wanted to start by recalling that this partial character of this legislative amendment proposed through this bill is derived from the fact that the Government simply intended to respond with this text to three emergencies, not to the real underlying problem that exists in the local police in the various municipalities of Galicia. And those three emergencies were, essentially, their adaptation to Galician Public Employment Act, to the Statute of the State Public Employee; the introduction of the changes produced, essentially, in the disciplinary regime of state security bodies; and finally, to comply with a European directive-driven sentence on the age limit for access to local police bodies. Indeed, in this text there is a consensus on the part of trade unions representing local police workers and workers, as well as the Greek municipalities, but that consensus does not mean that neither the workers, nor their representatives, nor the municipalities consider it necessary to deepen further in order to solve other problems. The consensus is to assume that it is necessary to introduce the changes that are being promoted through this bill, because, among other things, the possibility of convening new oppositions, even in those municipalities that have deserted RPT squares or other issues arising from the lack of adaptation of this law, was blocked. But, I insist, that doesn't mean that neither the trade union organizations nor the municipalities aspire to that in the future, sooner than later, we change in a more substantial way this law on coordination of local police. In the debate process of this law, in the process of tabling, we recognize, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, that has occurred – referred to the three or four issues raised in this bill, not with regard to any other – progress that we consider positive, for example, with the advance of the drafting of the new Article 22 – of course, thanks to amendments made by other parliamentary groups in which collaborative agreements for the provision of local police services in neighbouring municipalities amounting to a combined population of less than 40,000 inhabitants. Because, in fact, we were talking here in the whole debate that one of the main deficiencies the local police have in Galicia is the lack of resources that the municipalities have in our country to meet the needs, to have properly sized bodies, not only from the point of view of protecting and preserving the rights of citizenship but even to be able to respect the labour rights of the local police workers. And in his speech, Mr. Ron said that, although there was talk about wage levels and labour rights, no measures were put in place to ensure that this was within acceptable standards. And, indeed, that's the case. But I also support – as we have already done in the whole debate – that this is absolutely impossible if we do not also address the change of the local funding system. Because, frankly, that's one of the cornerstones so the Town Councils can provide any service, and of course, this service too. Therefore, we believe that this amendment introduced in Article 22 allows this collaboration, although it does not resolve that practically none of the municipalities that have local police comply with the ratio that is established as acceptable, of 1.8 local police members per 1,000 inhabitants, at least without solving it, can contribute to the city councils' ability to perform this service in better conditions. Let us also say that we welcome the transaction of two amendments tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group which were intended to ensure that access to local police bodies includes a review of the Spanish language to ensure the knowledge of the language by officials and officials of the local police force; but above all to ensure the right of citizens and citizens to be treated by the local police in their own language as well. And we believe that it also constitutes a significant advance, a transaction between an amendment from this group and one from the Socialist Group in the unique additional provision establishing the equivalences of titrations for access to local police bodies and scales. As far as our parliamentary group is concerned, we have introduced it at the request of the local police officials themselves, because they believe that this will make it much better to clarify this situation and avoid some issues that are taking place on this issue. And finally, we also consider it a good thing to introduce a second additional provision in which it is established – although this Parliament cannot necessarily establish certain issues in relation to the councils – a legal guidance for the municipalities to draw up regulations for the organisation and operation of their local political bodies, which is another of the shortcomings that has been manifested by members and members of the different bodies and by the unions that represent the workers. Having said that, in relation to the amendments made by the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, which were not accepted or negotiated, firstly, I would like to express our regret at Amendment No 2, which was made about the composition of this Local Police Coordination Commission. We wanted to make more plural representation of local police bodies on that commission, introducing, on the one hand, a representation of the large municipalities and the other of the small ones. Because I think that, of course, none of the people we're here escapes us that the problem of the local Barbados Police or even smaller municipalities than Barbados, which have local police, and that of the Coruña or Vigo, or even Ourense, is diametrically different from all points of view, both from staffing, infringement, training, remuneration, respect or the possibility of exercising all the working rights on the part of its members, etc. That is why, although there has been a transaction in relation to the article that regulates the Coordinating Commission – which seems to us to improve it – we believe, however, that there has been a lack of generosity there, and that much more could have been done about the representation of those and those affected, of the people who work day by day in the local police bodies and who could therefore bring up to that commission relevant issues. With regard to Amendments 5, 6 and 7 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Bloc, which were neither accepted nor negotiated, which referred exclusively to the regulation introduced by the disciplinary regime, we were fully aware when we presented them that they would not be accepted; among other reasons, because that regulation of the disciplinary regime is a literal transposition of what states legislation. But we still want to introduce them, and yet today I want to talk about it, because it seems to me that we should have an important reflection on the disciplinary regime of state forces and security bodies if we really want them to be a public service -- worth redundancy -- to the service of citizenship and to preserve their rights, to guarantee their rights and to preserve their security, and not instruments of any other kind, as Mr. Fernández Díaz has just shown us. We should, of course, eliminate those vestments of militarization, not only in the Civil Guard, which are heavy metal, but in all the rest of the state's bodies and security forces. Because, of course, I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to read the report of minor, serious and very serious shortcomings established through this bill, which - I insist - is the literal transposition of what the State establishes for the State's forces and bodies of security. They will really be surprised at some of the issues that are set out and that we intend to correct. For example, there is a fault that is considered serious and can be imposed on considerable sanctions, which is drug or alcohol abuse by local police members. It is not established that it has to be in hours when they are on duty, and it is established that abuse is considered when it is detected that this happens three times a year. I don't know if any of the people we're here three times a year are not likely, by any circumstances, to give us a positive alcohol consumption simply because we had a family party or any circumstance like that. And I'm talking about you being strictly off duty. I honestly think it's an intrusion into the privacy of even the local police. Or other disciplinary misconduct that is clearly established as instruments of command and of the respective police officers to exercise control that I think is extralimited and that not only does it guarantee their rights as workers but it even makes them vulnerable to political pressures that can compromise their behaviour with regard to people and citizens. Finally, this parliamentary group wanted us, as a result of this debate, to all of us to conclude that, although this was necessary to do so, and to do so as soon as possible, it is insufficient. And that, therefore, we all and everyone are committed to the fact that, as soon as possible, we are going to make an in-depth reform not of Law 4/2007 but of the police model we want for this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first, as a matter of precedent, that in the work that took place in the debate of this law, this amendment, the truth is that there was a constructive spirit on the part of all the members of that paper. And, in addition, for this honourable Member, who has experienced a lot of situations, there is also a certain surprise about the "generousness" – among other things – of the majority group in accepting many of the amendments and many of the reasoning we have tabled. That's why we also want to appeal here today to the amendments that we keep alive for this debate. We haven't just understood why, in some way, there's not a circle of beans in certain aspects that I'll then deal with with with more amplitude. The amendment of this law, Law 4/2007, of 20 April, of coordination of local police in Galicia, is motivated by the reasons that the other speakers have already said here, such as their adaptation to the Basic Statute of the Public Employee and the Public Employment Act in Galicia. And also – and it's true – I can even agree with many of the comments that have been made here about the anachronism that implies some of the aspects of the entry into force of Organic Law 4/2010, of May 20, of the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps. But I also agree that this is a law of the state. And that's why we didn't go in there, yet without sharing it -- what we had to say at the time of the Congress of Deputies -- because I really believe that law and justice in many cases don't go together. And in this case – I do as Mrs. Paz – it is also appropriate for us to devote ourselves to these coming months of summer at a certain time to read certain articles of the disciplinary regime. The truth is, it's a surprising thing. But that, for most of the groups that we are here and that we have representation in the Congress of Deputies, maybe it's one of the duties that we should self-imposed to try to adapt the laws to reality and normality. And it was also important to change its judgment of the European Union Court of Justice of 13 November 2014 which considered it discriminatory to establish an age limit for access to selection processes for local police personnel. And this was causing problems in local administrations, which have virtually paralysed all of their processes to equip themselves with new members for vegetative casualties or, at last, for other circumstances, or because many police officers in some cases have chosen squares in other municipalities for different personal, economic reasons or also for economic differences – which is true – between different municipalities even though we are talking about the same position, with the same responsibility and among very similar municipalities in their category, by saying so in some ways, as to population, resources, structure, etc. In our case – and I want to acknowledge it publicly, because also when we criticize it harshly, and when we recognize it, we must recognize it – among the amendments accepted or negotiated 75% of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group were assumed by the representative in the speech of the majority of this House. And we believe that this has been a good service for the local police, the Galician municipalities and, of course, the country, as local police and municipalities cover 100 percent of the territory. And we made it easier for the amendments and the transactions that were accepted, both from our group and from other groups, that the reform was a little further than a mere administrative process and bound by the basic legislation of the state or by judgments of European courts. And it's true that there are things you can even clean more, even if you can get better, but taking advantage of this procedure something we've contributed. For example, collaboration between municipalities is fundamental, in a country with the municipal structure that we have in Galicia is fundamental. I believe that none of your lords escapes their experience, especially through local politics and small municipalities, from the celebration of certain celebrations in our country or any event where many municipalities were actually resorting to this collaboration but without any kind of legal coverage beyond the mere willingness to collaborate between this mayor or that and in an unordered and, of course, unregulated manner. I think we've laid the foundations here for this to be done. In representation it is true that many things are missing, and it is also possible that we could even go much further. But it is also true, and I must say that also with disgust for some of them, that representation has increased. Now they'll have to agree on how that representative is selected, and that's also where it's going to be demonstrated, and where we're going to see in practice the ability to negotiate and reach consensus among the local police's own organizations. For us it was very important – and I will enter what is left of us, what we have accepted and what is left of us – that the requirement of having at least five years old in a position to be able to promote in a call that had been made to the other place. That cut off a lot of possibilities from many cops who don't have that age, and who curiously in almost all cases were the best trained cops because they were people who had access to the post most recently and in many cases have infinitely higher education – academic, I mean – to those who will replace, or even to those who compete. But simply the process of having a certain age, five years, I suppose... we were allowed to go down to three, I think we're on the right track, but there's a kick left that's not accepted, and it's modest, when it's said that at least 25% of the squares will be reserved for local police from other local police in Galicia. And that's the least. Our proposal is quite modest, it's simply opening the way for easy access to employment; especially at times like this. We say, "Hey, let's go down 5%, let's leave it at 20%, that's okay, Counselor, that you think you have the ability to convince your group." It's all right, because, besides, you know that the summons in many municipalities are a square; of two squares, at most, in the vast majority of Galician municipalities. Therefore, the reservation implies in practice that only other local police can access certain calls. There is no possibility in practice, in most cases, that there is an opening so that, at a time like what we are living, economic and labor, someone can aspire to build a future by performing a profession, sometimes even in his own locality. It doesn't change much, it's only 5%, but it's a gesture, as we talked about many others before, and as I think Mrs. Peace explained. And I think, at last, the cost is not excessively political. I know there's a consensus, I know, between the unions, the Fegamp and the Galician Union in the text that was sent here, it's true. But it's also true that consensus is sometimes built on positions of minimals or positions more or less assumed by all, but it doesn't mean that there are no aspirations to go a little further, or much further. But for the sake of consensus sometimes many aspirations are also sacrificed. So we continue to have hope, in the same spirit that he imposed on the presentation, that this too can be solved. And that's why we also asked the parliamentary group to keep the negotiating and collaborative effort you had in the presentation. I said before our council demands that we approve this law, that we do it as soon as possible – today is the last procedure. Because we have many municipalities in Galicia with their paralysed and blocked contests waiting for us to change the rules and be able to lay the groundwork with all the legal guarantees and that they can't be traced back, and that we don't have the problems they've had in the past. We know that Fegamp agrees with its change in essential points, and we know that it counts with support and consensus -- I said it before, and the other actors told it -- of the most representative class unions in the local police. Our group is willing – as it did in the presentation – to negotiate, talk and discuss it until the end. I don't enter the other amendments we keep, because the vast majority of them have to do with the different sections of the different scales, with this percentage of reservation. And, therefore, it is not a matter of exhausting your lords by wasting time. Our provision is totally negotiating. And I think, Counselor, that in this case you are decisive. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. After the previous work in committee and in the presentation, the debate on the Ditam drawn up by Commission 1st on this draft law amending the Law 4/2007 on coordination of local police, a law drawn up during the bipartisan government that needs to be reformed. And it needs to be reformed for a number of reasons. This is an amendment marked, firstly, by the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, Law 7/2007, which together with the basic legislation also affects local police coordination regulations in its general part, and also by the entry into force of Law 2/2015, of Galicia's public employment, which also obliges some articles of Law 4/2007 to be adapted to the basic legislation of the State domain; secondly, also by the entry into force of Organic Law 4/2010, of 20 May, of the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps, a law which may seem rather far-reaching and to which it may be agreed or disagreed, Mrs Soneira, but which is a law which has been established by a socialist government in 2010; thirdly, by the need to adapt the law to judicial decisions, more in detail, by the judgment of the European Union Justice Court of 13 November 2014, which considered discriminatory the establishment of a limit of age in access to the selection processes for local police bodies. Article 33 of Law 4/2007 established that they had to be under 36 years old in order to be able to access and a European Union judgment declared discriminatory the setting of this limit, and said so because it was not in accordance with European Commission Directive 2000/78 of 27 November 2000, except for the exception set out therein. Here, too, our highest court in Galicia, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, handed down a judgment, on 681/2014 of 26 November, which also follows an argumental line derived from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. However, although the representative of AGE spoke here that this reform comes late, therefore, look, it arrives as soon as possible. These judgments are 2014 and therefore could not be made before 2014 because there were no judicial statements to make this reform. On the other hand, this review of the Bipartite law is necessary to provide legal certainty with selective processes in development, as well as for the expectations of other municipalities to convene these processes. We strive with this legislative initiative, promoted by the Council of Galicia, to avoid – and it must be said – the almost absolute paralysis in the convening of squares for these bodies. This reform is fundamental and will allow the municipalities to cover the necessary squares to properly maintain the local police service. It is also necessary to modify certain articles that the truth is that they have been shown little effect in order to facilitate the progress and updating of the law itself. And this is a reform that has arrived at this Parliament in agreement with the administrations affected by it, with the municipalities and with the professionals to whom it is headed. It is a text of dialogue and consensus drawn up by a working group with representatives of all the groups present in the Local Police Coordination Commission and unanimously endorsed by that committee, once the working group referred to it as final drafting. It counts with the congratulations of trade union forces, UXT, Labour Commissions, CSIF, CIG and Axempol – the union of heads and commanders –. Fegamp has also issued her report in favour of the Local Police Coordination Commission. The General Secretariat of Equality has already issued a series of recommendations and their proposals have been collected, and the General Directorate of Public Service has also made a number of recommendations which have also been collected in this text. This amendment responds to its main demands, those of the Local Police Coordination Commission and those of the affected agents: legal security, elimination of arbitrary discrimination, greater rigour in the procedures of free access, flexibility in the provision of squares by internal promotion, greater possibilities of mobility and facilities for the active stay of those staff who wish to do so. It is a very brief text, with 18 paragraphs which are mainly devoted to eliminating the excessive rigors that were penalizing the good functioning of local police bodies in Galicia. And from the People's Parliamentary Group we advocate the need to reform this law for a number of reasons: First of all, because within our electoral program, it was explicitly showing the empowerment of collaborative mechanisms in the field of local police personnel. In this sense, we believe that the new drafting of the law gives flexibility to the mechanisms of internal promotion or permutation, encourages this mobility, that optimal and joint management of the staff of the various local police bodies in Galicia. Secondly, because today's text is being brought to the House and we are debating the matter – as I have just said – of a technical working group created within the Committee on Coordination of Local Police in Galicia, a body that counts with the participation of the Council of Galicia, the Councils, the Trade Unions and the Association of Chiefs and Commands. This reform designs more flexible mechanisms to cover the squares called for by the internal promotion process, to facilitate exchanges and also to facilitate the extension of the active life of agents who want to remain in the first activity. That is why from the People's Parliamentary Group we are convinced that this reform will have a very positive impact on the management of staff that the councils must make, to the extent that it will finally solve situations that affect the provision of the police service. A third reason why the Popular Group is going to bet on this project, with the improvements that have been included in the presentation process with the transactions – from which I will then speak on the second round – and also with the amendments accepted by the opposition groups, is that, contrary to what other parliamentary groups do, our intention is not to urge the Government not to comply with laws and judicial judgments, but rather quite the opposite. From the People's Group, we believe it's our obligation, that of all, to urge the Government to comply with the law and the judgments handed down. That is why much of this reform is brought here today to this Parliament. And against the Bipartite text, a judgment – which I have just quoted – of the Galician Court of Justice which considers it incompatible to set the 36-year-old limit imposed on access to Galician local police bodies. This judgment is causing – and here it has already been commented by representatives of the other groups – serious difficulties in convening oppositions, because there is no legal certainty about the criteria that these calls should have. And with this law – as well as with the Local Administration's Emergency Measures Act of 2014 – the Joint contributes to providing legal certainty to municipal proceedings and prevents interpretative doubts from leading to dysfunctions in the provision of basic public services. And the last – and for us fundamental – is that this is the text that the municipalities want. It's the text that the municipalities want and that also the local police officers want. This text was adopted unanimously by the Coordinating Commission, where there are ten municipal representatives and five union representatives. It is true that in the presentation process we speak and study for the most part all the amendments of the groups that have been presented, of the opposition groups. It is true that we try to be constructive in that study and arrive at a number of transactions –36 compromises –; therefore, I think it is worth commenting on some of them because of the novelty they represent with regard to the current picture, to the current regulation: First, they allow the municipalities to be associated to build and equip, for example, equipment like a shooting gallery, in order to make a joint use of it. The composition of the Coordinating Commission is also altered, so that a more designated representative is added by the Local Police Professional Association who believes the highest representation of local police personnel and I have no doubt that there will be no problem and that there will be consensus among the associations to appoint a representative. The participation of body representatives, therefore, will be equated with the representatives of the Union: five from the Union and five from union representatives and local police associations. A novelty for us very relevant is that two or more municipalities will be allowed to be associated to provide local police services. They will be neighbouring municipalities whose population does not, together, exceed 40,000 inhabitants and must meet a number of requirements: they do not have sufficient resources separately to provide local police services, which is the most important. And they can be associated with the provision of these services, as laid down in additional provision 5 of Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March, and the regulations which develop it. It will, of course, be necessary to sign a partnership agreement and, on the basis of the signing of that agreement, they must apply for and obtain the corresponding authorization from the competent body which is not the Government of Greece, but is the Ministry of the Interior. On the other hand, the municipalities likely to obtain the exemption from the minimum requirements as regards the structure of their local police body, are now given a two-year deadline for them to seek the association formula for the provision of this service with neighbouring municipalities so that they can achieve the minimum requirements required by the law, with the assistance of the competent safety advisor. On the other hand – and it has already been commented here by the representative of the Group of the BNG – until now it is sufficient to demonstrate knowledge of the language of the German language and now it is true to take an examination unless – of course this is recorded in the final text – for those people who demonstrate their knowledge of the language of the German language according to current legislation. On the other hand, the age of access by competition is reduced from 5 to 3 years and I think this is opinable but we believe it is an important approximation approach to the amendments of the opposition and, of course, I think it is quite positive that we accept among all this reduction from 5 to 3 years old. On the other hand, it includes in the law the expectation that pay concepts can be common to all municipalities respecting that, yes, we have to respect it in many respects, too, when they have to adopt a regulation because that is the responsibility of local autonomy, because in that respect also the necessary independence of local authorities, because the pay concepts must be agreed within the framework of the Local Police Coordination Committee. But always – I insist – respecting the necessary independence of local authorities. It is also regulated the possibility for the municipalities to develop and approve their own organizational regulations, the functioning of the local police force. Here – straight – that there were amendments that said that a regulation should be adopted, but this must be left to the initiative of each council and, in fact, there are councils, already today, that have adopted its regulation: Santiago de Compostela's council has already, since 2013, adopted a regulation. And it is also given a mandate to approve, within six months, the Regulatory Order of Horizontal Mobility between the Galician Local Police Corps – a rule that I find has made a great deal of progress. It is, therefore, a necessary law, a guarantee and consensus with the agents concerned and with the municipalities. This law solves multiple problems and updates the text to legislative changes and requirements derived from judicial pronouncements and is therefore not only a technical norm, it is a norm that seeks to amend the drafts of the law passed by the Bipartisan Government in 2007 and is a law that seeks to unlock, above all, the process of introducing new local police officers into the Greek municipalities. And respecting – reiterating again – the necessary municipal independence to regulate certain aspects, I believe that today we have put an end to a situation that had blocked calls in the municipalities. And in addition, it gives new possibilities for cooperation between neighbouring municipalities to launch the police service together. I think this is a breakthrough, ladies and gentlemen, very important. And when it comes to a law that is consistent with the agents involved and in which 42% of the amendments made by the opposition groups at the stage of the presentation are admitted, we look forward to their support in order to bring forward a law so expected and so demanded by the municipalities. So we'll be serving the Galician municipalities and we'll be able to better coordinate the work of the local Galician police. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u18	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u19	Thank you, President. From the Joint Group we will support all the amendments of the other parliamentary groups – and it is true that this law needs a thorough review –. It also commented on the fact that we had some coincidences with the different opposition groups and congratulated the contributions in addition to the initial text that was presented to make the necessary reforms, the necessary changes and highlight, so briefly, amendments submitted by the Socialist Group and AGE – which were the two additions to article 16 – on the need for precise inspection actions for the coordinating inspection functions and to ensure compliance with the parameters established by law; inspection work to fulfil what is the local police's own function and avoid situations of convenience and seek a homogenization of its own function; or the approximations made to article 18, on the composition of the coordination commission, also done by the AGE Group and the BNG, which were rejected, where consensus should be sought at the time of representation. We consider it very important because the different representatives of populations, where there is a disparity – especially by the number of inhabitants – is not the same as a town because they bring other kinds of problems and it also has to do with the representation number of the most representative unions of the Local Police itself in Galicia. Or the PSOE number 5 or AGE number 6 -- well, I'm saying right now, highlighting some of them to establish a certain number of local police in municipalities of 5,000 inhabitants. As the representative of AGE also said, they demand their own and their own local police. It is also a greater capacity also depending on the budgets and the capacity of the different municipalities. Or Amendment No. 11 of AGE, where the possibility of promotion, which was Article 37, is reduced to three years, if the squares are not covered by calls from public personnel, or even finding that balance, that flexibility for those who incorporate younger people. May it be to find a balance, a balance of the workers, of the new people who access this kind of squares and, also, who can promote people with more experience, but not that some have all the rights and others who have none. Or that number 17 of PSOE, AGE 24 about what the mobility guarantee is. And it also claims again on the paragraph of the regulation on penalties for the amendment to the BNG, paragraph 6, on the use of toxic drugs where other substances are equivalent and which requires an important revision of the regulation itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u21	For our band, we're going to support the amendments presented by the opposition groups' comrades and comrades because they basically coincide with the one expressed by Alternative Gaga de Left. Several of them, in fact, as could be noticed in the transactions offered by the People's Party, are carried out through dialogue with the same organizations and therefore in many respects in their textuality are coincident and therefore there is nothing left to say that we support, especially when we see those of the PSdEG. In that sense, we see that we work with the same basic organizations. With regard to even those of the Mixto, those of the BNG, for there is a good coincidence. What is important is what is done with the transactions in which we appeal to the need to include a Welsh exam, except for those people who believe knowledge of the language in accordance with the relevant regulations; or the transaction on Amendment 4 of the BNG and the 5 of the Mixto that we also support and, in general, all those who remain alive because we understand that they improve – especially all rejected – the basic text that was presented to us in the whole debate and how we saw it necessary to move forward and deepen in the amendment work, in the political debate work. There are still many aspects to deal with – and we have already said it to almost all parliamentary groups – that it is necessary to address the need to reform this law of 2007, to give it a step forward in establishing the full professionalization of the local police body, so that there are no situations of obvious imbalance and discrimination between services, which must be the same for all the neighbouring and all the citizenship of Galicia, and not because it is in a municipality or in another place provided with a service or be deprived. And, therefore, we believe that it is necessary to turn the whole law around to move forward in that respect. Therefore, to reiterate only our support for all the amendments tabled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galegos, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. I regret that, not even when there are certain consensus and basic agreements, the People's Party is able to leave here and not delay the Bipartite or disqualify the positions of the parliamentary groups, especially because I believe that the others have had a rather constructive debate, from that point of view, without making political disqualifications and simply trying to talk about the content of the bill and, above all, of the needs that we believe the local police have. To say that the opposition groups do not want the sentences to be complied with and the legality seems to me, Mr. Moreira, quite frankly, that it has gone a little bit, especially if we want to get out here of rossel, of judgments that have not been complied with by the Board of Galicia, but that is not the case. In any case, as this is the turn to position ourselves on the amendments, to say that this parliamentary group will also vote favourably on the amendments tabled by the rest of the groups, which in most cases – and taking into account the limitation of the matter that is regulated by this bill – refer to the issue similar to those presented by the BNG Parliamentary Group, although on many occasions with greater scope, with a similar or deeper approach, and which, in any case, we believe would improve the bill, and we would again make sure that we take seriously the amendment of the legal framework not only of the Local Police Coordination Act, but also of the compliance of Law 8/2007, which is developed once and for all the Galician Police. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. First, to announce our vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the opposition groups for the reasons that have already been said here. They're quite similar, it's just a question of style or, at last, they sink more or less, but we basically agree. And then there are some questions I think we should talk about, Mr. Moreira. You said the text is what the councils want, what the union organizations want, the police themselves, and it is true, here came a consensual text and the People's Party cannot put on the table as the only argument that you need to support it simply because that is the text that has been brought, because at the stage of the presentation they have accepted, if they have dealt – you said it – with amendments that have improved it without going against that consensus or against the will of both the Fegamp, the local councilmen and the local police who have agreed to the reform you entered into this House. So, if it's possible to add modifications that allow for improvement without going into harming legitimate interests of both municipalities and police. And so we kept making a call: just as you said it was a great step down the antiquity for access to certain promotions and summons, so the percentage reserved for the body itself, to which you didn't say anything, said you would say it now, and I hope that that spirit of collaboration will continue to rule, even though I have the impression that some steps have been going since we worked in the presentation. Because, of course, I will no longer enter into aspects in which Mrs. Paz entered, but a government that has an absolute majority, that has changed laws in the field of work, that has had an extraordinary urgency in modifying the Abortion Law, health policy, educational policy and in which we have above all a minister of the Interior that its urgency is to decorate pieces of inert materials to which some have devotion and put medals on them... these are their priorities. And, by the way, he also shut himself down in his office for – no normal country would ever agree to it, and at this time he should be stopped – planning crimes. Yes, planning crimes. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the spokesperson for the People's Group – and Mrs. Peace said it very well – here we come to talk about what we've been talking about, but you can't help it, genetically; every time you get out here, you have to put the skate, and, of course, the skate... Not the sufferer, the language in his office put the minister of the Interior, who is for other things and not to plan how to criminalize the representatives of other political forces; by the way, to those whom I share practically nothing. But it seems to me to be indecent, immoral and canalesque that there is a minister of the Government of my country who is still exercising as such after that. [[Applause]] So, Mr. Morreira, if you like, we're talking about the local police and we're talking about the reform, but you're not bringing me other sheep here to be pacified because maybe they're going out of their way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I already missed so much soap in the first round. I was already looking where I was going, but I see, Mrs. Soneira, in response to you. Here the only thing I find inert is the opposition, I tell you honestly. [[Applause]] With regard to the amendments, with the order of mobility – which has already been discussed here – I have already told you that they are already drafted with the prior consensus in the working group of the Local Police Coordination Commission, in which, I insist, the councils and the police unions are represented. As for the amendments to the Joint Group, I was talking about the vests. I already tell you that it is already collected in the Development Regulation that you are obliged to have anti-ball vests on all vehicles providing operational services. Anyway, his amendment to the vests is not concrete either, says they'll have to wear vests. You here in this gallery say you have to wear vests in the cars, for men, for women, but in your amendment I did not specify it, Your Honor, is more specified in the regulation. In any event, in the next amendment to the regulation, the new regulation could already be considered, but it is not the law that is the right point for making this determination. As for the medical report, we've already told you that you restrict the medical report from asking Sergas' doctor. It's just that maybe the chief doctor of the police in question at the time is not Sergas. You have to admit that you're another doctor, too. In the sanctioning regime, they may agree or may be in disagreement, but in the sanctioning regime there is no margin of manoeuvre, it is about transposing the regulations laid down by law, which establishes the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps, and there we cannot move, we must respect that framework because the sanctioning competition is the basic competence of the State. Anyway, I'm very much called upon to pay attention to some of the amendments you proposed in this issue, and I've taken the trouble of reading some, but I'm proposing, for example, to reduce the time limits for the prescription of shortcomings and sanctions to one year. Well, I don't think that's very positive. If we're looking for sanctions to be punitive, I think restricting the limitation period is not positive in terms of the purpose that is sought with the sanctioning regime. Another. They also limit the concept of labour harassment. They demand that it result for the person affected to undermine, abuse or humiliation, or threaten and harm their job situation or opportunities at work. Reform does not set any kind of limitations, with which the concept of labour harassment is much broader. You want to restrict it. Other questions, Your Honor, such as the issue of what the representative of AGE was talking about, control. See, since 2009 the General Directorate of Emergency and Internal Affairs has been publishing the memory of activities, reflecting all the control and control mechanisms on the activity of the local police. With regard to the ratio of local police, which you're criticizing and claiming to be of 1.8, then, look, the reality is, in the end, that the ratio in Galicia is much higher, because you're not taking into account state security bodies like the Civil Guard or the National Police Corps. And if we take all the bodies into account, the Civil Guard, the National Police and local police make up 10,550 troops: 5,350 to the Civil Guard, 2,700 to the National Police and 2,500 to the local police. And do you know what the police ratio is, therefore, in Galicia? You call for 1.8, the European Union recommends a 2; because if we add all the troops, it is 3.90 per 1,000 inhabitants. So, Your Honor, what needs to be taken into account is that if there's a Civil Guard in a town, the local police along with the Civil Guard are forces and security bodies, it doesn't make any sense to implement and disproportionate the presence of local police when there are other security forces in the state. You said, Mr. Ron, that the AGE is not happy. Well, look, she won't be happy, but it's a law that's made up of the contributions from the sectors involved, and it's a law that we actually enrich in the presentation process, but I think we were quite generous, you voted on it here in this gallery. We were quite generous in accepting your amendments and, therefore, I think we have already said in the presentation process and in the committee procedure as far as we could get. And, of course, if they repeat their amendments, they are very free to repeat them, but I insist, they are 42% of amendments accepted in a text that has already been agreed upon and practically made by the Local Police Coordination Commission. Mrs. Peace, you see a lot of you are now in Law 4/2007, but those eaves have not seen you in 2007, because this is a bill of law from your party and the Socialist Party, and we see that a lot of things that are now claimed to be reformed have not been reformed by you or taken into account at that time. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a very good text, enriched with your contributions, and therefore I have to say that, as we said in the committee procedure, we will not accept your amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u28	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. We suspended the session until 6:00. [[The session is suspended at noon and resumed at 4:00.]] Proposal for a single reading and urgency procedure for the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer perceived in the proportion of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013, and, if so, discussion and vote of the project's predecessor
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u29	I should like to inform you that the Bureau, heard the Speaker's Board at the meeting on 21 June 2016, agreed to propose to the House plenary that it be processed by the single reading procedure of this bill in the light of Article 134.1 of the Rules of Procedure. Before the vote is put to the vote, the proposal for a single reading procedure is opened for Parliament's groups to be positioned. First of all, you have the floor by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez; for a period of five minutes each parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u30	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The single reading system is entirely exceptional and is set by procedural rules as a special legislative procedure. The single reading technique is characterized by the abolition of certain procedures of the central phase of the common iter lei which means that it is impossible to present, debate and vote amendments which usually take place in committee and the restriction on the exercise of the right of participation of parliamentary minorities. The possibility of negotiation and political transaction on the original text disappears, turning the House into a body whose single function is to accept or reject the legislative text proposed by the Government. It is therefore clear that the development of rules through this special procedure results in a reduction in the possibilities for the opposition groups to participate in the legislative process. Therefore, its application must be reserved for subjects or texts of little political transcendence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u31	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u32	...or widely consensual between the political forces. This is, therefore, a procedural technique through which Parliament intends to be given a quick response to legislative proposals which do not present great difficulties in consensualizing or agreeing to its approval by agitating procedural procedures. But, of course, this is not the case; neither are we dealing with a minor or a minor issue, nor is this bill a fruit of dialogue and agreement between the political forces represented in this Parliament. This bill is part of... there's a rumor... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u33	Quiet. You're absolutely right. Here's a noise that's very annoying, so I pray that, please, you can respect who's in the use of the word. Thank you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u34	Thank you, President. This bill is part of the People's Party's electoral campaign, which aims to convert a Supreme Court ruling that compels you to correct a fraud to public personnel in a free decision-making act of the Government. More than a thousand appeals filed, both administratively and judicially, against the cut-off of the extra payment motivated numerous judgments condemning Junta to the payment of the amounts withdrawn from staff salaries in the service of the Self-Government. On 8 March 2016, the Supreme Court notified the judgment of the annulment of the appeal brought by the Galician Board of Appeal, which turned the decision of the Galician High Court into a firm decision. With regard to this year 2012, there were so many judgments that the Administration finally paid the debt to all staff. But, as always, the PP intends to campaign by reversing its illegal acts, and it must be acknowledged that it seems to him to be all right. Thus, on 11 May 2015 – a few days before the municipal elections – the DOG published the announcement regarding the recovery of the amounts no longer received corresponding to the month of December 2012 – that in May 2015–. In October 2015, Feijóo again announced – with the elections to the state already called – the download of the IRPF, the baby check, the reduction of inheritance tax, an extra allocation for people who receive non-contributory pensions and – in the DOJ of 16 October– the advertising of the payment of the payment of an extraordinary nature of the 2012 payment and the increase in salary for 2001. In the face of repeated elections in the state and this year's summons of the Welsh elections, we continue with propaganda. And so, in this year 2016, on February 25, the public job offer is approved, in March and June again announces that the extra December payment is returned and the Business Council promises to trade unions that in 2017 they will charge the full extra payments, including the specific supplement that took them out in 2013 and that they now intend to sell us as a trade union deal at the general table. I mean, it was already decided in March and now they come with an emergency route and a single reading that justifies their processing. And now, this bill, whose publicity coincided a few days from the state elections and its subscription coincides near the autonomy, is presented as a voluntary action by the Government. Never before has a sentence given so much publicity to the condemned party. This bill has had to be processed in time to be able to present partial amendments and to debate the duty to return staff to the service of the Government of Wales all the concepts that have been subtracted from it by the Government since 2012, in an act that has broken the good faith that must refuse any collective bargaining process. I am sure and convinced that we have time to negotiate a law that guarantees the return of all of your rights and you have to the public staff and that it has its first effect in this exercise. That's why we objected to his single reading process. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u36	Good afternoon to everyone. The Left Galician Alternative also strongly opposes the procedures used by the People's Party, which employs the executive. Because what has to be said is clearly an imposition by the executive on the legislation, so that the work that we can do is absorbed by the executive's will, which requires that this be done in single reading and urgency procedure. We see this as a real abuse, an abuse of that power, of that majority. Where is urgency justified when judgments contrary to the action carried out by the Council of Galicia are known – one of them, the last, since February –? And as already mentioned, since March, it was already known that the Council of Galicia had to meet the obligations arising from judicial judgments. This decision prevents legislating work, and we can only record our conformity or inconformity in this act where the form and the content overlaps. We therefore understand that it is an act that violates the rules of democratic debate and of dialogue, and of being able to amend, which is where work is, by abolishing the procedural phase of commission, because logically we cannot even correct a comma and amend, because logically there are obvious aspects to amend in the text, because only one of the small parts that have been stolen, stolen, by the austerity action of the Government of Núñez Feijóo. It's a measure that comes – as has already been said – besides, in the middle of the pre-election period, at the end of the legislation, where you want to make see, use that mask of kindness that you're using lately, and a little makeup your austere action precisely towards the upcoming elections. We hope this isn't that blues that everybody gets drunk. We strongly oppose your use of this House to deceive the citizenry, because in the end all they do is give back a drop on the rights that have been hijacked globally, in full form, and not only in 2013 but in 2014, in 2015 and in 2016. And so we wonder what happens in those years. This is what happened on September 29, 2015, when a law was brought here on that bill where it was intended to return 25% of the extra payment for 2012. Then we said that it was not the way to proceed, that it was not the way to proceed. Apart from being in itself an insufficient measure, we had already denounced what was an absolutist form, an abuse and, logically, the electoral advertising of which was still being used. So we're going with the same ones. Then, in turn, when it comes to talking about content, we'll talk about why we're against even the textuality, the writing. Because, moreover, if this responds – as is said in the explanatory statement – to an agreement, in that supposed agreement it was said that the commitment of the Galician Union was to bring a preliminary draft. A preliminary draft is quite different from bringing a totally chewed bill that is imposed through the single reading and emergency procedure. A preliminary project is something different, which allows you to walk, allows you to dialogue and allows you to move forward and amend if all procedural processes are performed that should be guaranteed for a bill. We understand that does not happen to this which is offered to us, on the contrary. The only thing that remains for us – as we say – is to manifest inconformity, and therefore the Left-wing Galician Alternative strongly opposes these procedures used by the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group opposes the processing of this bill in single reading for the following considerations: First, the House's own Rules of Procedure take this one reading procedure as a procedure of an exceptional nature reserved for those matters and matters which, because of their simplicity, by their simplicity or their character of reaching a very small and very concrete issue, may be subject to a single reading procedure which therefore does not require a delaying debate in the Parliament of Galicia. However, the People's Party, especially since 2009 and in particular during this last legislation, has made a real abuse of the use of this resource set out in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, since it has been used to make legislative amendments and to approve legal texts that transcend much – from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block – those defined in the Regulation as a single-read treatment object. For the Galego Nationalist Block, this is a procedure which seeks to steal the debate, a deeply anti-democratic procedure, taking into account the kind of matter that we are now submitting to the consideration of this Parliament, and which, in practice, prevents a debate that goes beyond successive monologues of parliamentary groups, without which any agreement, no sort of conclusion, no improvement of the text that is being submitted to Parliament's consideration. The regulation itself provides that the only possibility of amending a single read-only bill is through the submission of a whole amendment with alternative text. And finally, after these successive monologues that we will do each of the parliamentary groups from this rostrum, the vote will be put to option A or option B, without in any case there being any possibility, through what is normal in Parliament – which is the dialogue, the negotiation process, the transaction process, the process of attempting to reach agreements in a motion – to amend not even partially any matter of a collateral, minor or secondary nature – I don't say it substantially changes the text that is submitted to consideration by the Government. That's why the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, because we consider it to be an abuse by the Government, which is a submission by Parliament to the Government, because it is to turn this Parliament into a mere terminal in San Caetano, simply on a plate so that once again the councillor of Fairy comes here to make pre-electional propaganda of the autonomics campaign, using once again for that campaign, to show himself on this plate, the rights, interests and cuts that have been made to the public employees. We also consider, as I have already said, that it goes against the democratic principles of a parliament and that it clearly constitutes an abuse of law, because it perverts what makes the regulation literal, when it deals with an exceptional way of processing which unfortunately the People's Party is becoming habitual. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u40	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. The fact is that you place this bill as an initiative that we call "goodness", an initiative of bonoism which is not true, since it is the result of repeated judicial judgments, which oblige you to return the extra payment corresponding to the period from 1 January 2013 to 28 February of that same year, of courts which during that time it was illegal the retroactivity of Law 2/2013 of 27 February, as well as that of the Order of 11 March 2013, which dictated the instructions to make the adjustment of the payrolls of employees and public employees. This, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counselor, is nothing new. They don't review it as a recovery of rights for their goodwill, nor put it under the umbrellas of collective bargaining, which you never believed in. Tell the truth for once. They say it's a consequence that they're losing claims through the legal channels, something that the Socialist Group has warned on numerous occasions that would happen. We demand throughout this legislation on numerous occasions that the rights taken from employees and public employees be replaced, that they respect and begin to treat with dignity, that dignity they deserve, that employees and public employees. We did this in budget debates, we did it in the debate on the state of autonomy. And even in this specific case that strikes us, in the return of the extraordinary payment of the year 2013, the Socialist Group presented a non-law proposal, which was discussed in this Chamber on 16 March, in which we ask the Galician Board to give up these resources, the matrimony resources presented to the Supreme Court on the specific supplement, or the concept equivalent to the work, that of the two extra payments of the year 2013, which you are now selling to us. The initiative did not go ahead with the votes against the People's Party, the initiative did not go forward with the votes of the group that supports the Government, Counsellor. And yes, we ask for it then. And what really shows this is that we're in the face of a law that does not cease to be another propaganda fraud more than its government, what it does is to simulate as now, as this country does well, that you can return to counting the rights taken from employees and public employees when the reality is that they use once again the workers and workers of the civil service in Wales as currency of exchange in pre-election times. They also show their true façade, since it is regulated, if the regulation is amended, and they are gathered in the sitting newspapers of this House interventions by members of the People's Party in which they talk about improving the democratization of this institution and, as soon as they have opportunity, they introduce a debate as important as this one through Article 134, limiting the dialogue and subtracting the debate of this House reforms that you have undertaken to affect the public function: depreciation of squares or the debate itself to approve in this Parliament a calendar, a timetable, which returns to public employees the rights and extra payments that have been taken. Despite this, the Socialist Group will act with responsibility, it will not oppose this debate. We are aware that that small part, those small money that you want to return through this bill, is important for thousands of families, for thousands of families of employees and public employees. It's important because you've not only converted the private company's workers into poor people, you've also done a lot of public employees, so that this little oxygen balloon, we want it to be given citizenship; in this case, that employees and public employees receive it as soon as possible. In view of this, we shall abstain from the vote on the process of this project, although we certainly do not share the procedure through which it is carried out. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Noela Blanco, I see that you too have selective memory, as Mr. Pedro Sánchez does and does not remember that uptake of 5% of the payrolls of all public employees in this country who made his government. It seems to the Socialist Party that the specific complement is a great drama, but you forget about that 5%. [[Applause]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are already accustomed to this policy of destructive obstructionism that practices the left. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about the other one. [[Murmurs.]] You're going to abstain. You're not the obstructionists, I understand you're going to vote in favour of this law. In short, once again the opposition by practicing this destructive obstructionism that leads them nowhere. But anyway, the people of Greece have seen it as well and have also taken good note of this behavior, and so goes the opposition political groups that present these amendments to the whole today and that they are not willing to discuss this matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr Ron argues that it is an abuse that this bill of law is through the single reading procedure, they rip up the clothes, they proclaim the death of democracy, as they usually do whenever democracy gives results that you don't like. It's a bit what happened with regard to last Sunday. I understand, you've lost 67,000 votes in the last six months. It's something like losing 11,000 votes a month. And so when democracy doesn't give them the reason, then... of course, you know. Finally, the single reading procedure is provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, Mrs Acuña, the Senate and all the autonomous assemblies of all Spain. Open... [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u43	Silence, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u44	In all these cases it is indicated in those bills whose nature or simplicity so recommends, Mrs. Acuña. Today we have a bill with the following features: it's a single text, it has one object, which is the payment of the specific part of the extra payment paid in the months of January and February 2013. I mean, it's a very specific bill, it only touches one subject, it has one article with seven paragraphs. The text of the articulate, ladies and gentlemen, fits in four bells. I mean, we're facing a tremendously brief bill, a project that comes from an agreement signed between the Galician Union and three of the four trade union centres represented at the General Public Employee Negotiation Bureau. At those three union stations today you want to tell them that nothing, of what they agreed, nothing at all, because you are in possession of the truth. And he has an urgent need to make it clear that he is justified, because at this point in law, he would be saving, in addition, bureaucratic expenses for staff, who without this law would have to claim this money individually. So tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the Joint Group, of the AGE, of the BNG, if this short and concise bill, already in dialogue with all social agents, does not meet the conditions of the single reading procedure. Of course he does. It is indeed surprising to us that their attitude, especially when we note that in this House we have carried out a reform work of the Rules of Procedure of our Parliament and none of the groups that are protesting today have called for the abolition of the single reading procedure. Fuck! They didn't wake up. Or was it not a problem then? Or is it about protesting because you have converted your opposition work? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is a text – as I said – agreed with the unions and, therefore, we will go ahead with it, because that is what we agreed on and that is what the public administration staff demands us. Look, in this legislation 40 bills have been processed in this House, only in 6 the Government has applied for single-read processing; therefore, Mr. Ron, abuse in no case. The ability to act in opposition groups is not reduced. Look, I'll give you a number. As always says our spokesman, Mr. Pedro Puy, in every plenary 80 percent of the initiatives that take the full part of the opposition groups, who cuts to whom, Mr. Ron. The president and the councillors answer much more to the opposition groups than when there was an alleged left-wing government here. So we don't accept any of your criticisms. I don't know if you think with this attitude that you're showing they're going to get some kind of electoral profitability. I think last Sunday was clearly not shown. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Spain and Galicia have just demonstrated it, they negatively value these policies of blocking, of obstructionism that you practice. In short, you don't oppose the People's Party, you don't oppose the Galician Union, you oppose Galician officials today. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u45	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. We therefore vote on the proposal for a procedure for the single reading of the bill. Vote on the proposal for the single reading procedure and the urgency of the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received from the part proportional to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 11; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. The proposal to process this bill is therefore approved by the single reading procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u46	We are therefore already in the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Debates and votes, by means of a single reading and urgency, of the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u47	As we have said before, now is the debate. To present the bill, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I present today before the House the Bill to approve an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia. This initiative allows the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from the first of January to 28 February 2013. The Greek Government wanted to bring this initiative to this Parliament as soon as possible so that we can also return to public employees as soon as possible the specific supplement paid, the equivalent of the first extra payment of 2013, the corresponding – as I said before – the months of January and February. We came to this point after the High Court of Justice in Galicia had visited the High Court of Justice in order to clarify the non-application in those first two months of 2013 of the specific supplement to the extra payment in that semester, that the Board had confirmed, as a result of the good progress of the economy, that we had sufficient budgetary margin to be able to deal with this return in full this year, which would cost about 25 million euros, and that the Board had negotiated with all trade unions and that it had reached an agreement with three of four – with the Independent Trade Union Confederation of Officials, with Working Commissions and UXT – to carry out this return. So I would like to stress that the Government has acted responsibly, firstly, by negotiating with the unions to return the part already acquired from that specific supplement and to reach an agreement, and then by approving this draft law at the Board of Trustees so that they can bring it to Parliament in this session in order to carry out the budgetary amendment necessary to comply with this payment as soon as possible. We consider that, once all these factors are taken into account, the most responsible thing is to present this bill because it is the most beneficial for all the employees of the Greek public. Because with this text, first of all, we extend this return universally to all self-employed public employees, both to civil servants and to health officials, to teaching and non-teaching staff of education, to the staff of the Administration of Justice and to the personnel of the instrumental entities of the autonomic public sector. Secondly, by means of this bill, we can also extend this return to university staff and concerted education staff whose salaries are referred to public education staff. Thirdly, we prevent workers from having to submit resources to obtain them. And, fifth and last, we also prevent public employees from having to make a follow-up statement from the 2013 IRPF that they would have to congratulate in case of filing the appeal. With this return completed, each Italian public employee will receive an average of 180 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very important effort on the part of the Greek Government to be able to fully implement this same exercise, because the amount, as I told you earlier, is about 25 million euros. The German Government shielded by law, a little over a year ago, the salary recovery of the public employees of Greece, always aware of the effort they made during the crisis and which allowed them to safeguard the provision of public services at the best moment of the fall of public income. And the board is meeting the approved one. That's why this payment goes on, in addition, at a time when the Greek public employees are completing their wage recovery. At this point, the Government of Greece has already approved the return of the extra payment approved by the Central Government in December 2012, which will be completed next September. Remember that 50% of this extra payment has already been returned in 2015 and the rest of us are returning it between April and September this year. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we bring to the House today, along with the agreement signed with the unions, is to cancel the general pay adjustments to the Greek public employees that we had to comply with by this government to shield public services. The agreement signed with the unions that support this bill also makes it possible to reintroduce full extra payments. Because in the agreement signed with trade unions we also compromise the recovery, from the first of January 2017 – one year before the initially planned – of the payment of the specific complement equivalent in the extra payments of public employees. Therefore, the Greek public employees, who have helped so much to endure the economic crisis, will recover from the next January first their full extra payments that they had before the economic crisis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the German Government is ultimately fulfilling the word. And as you promised, you are, as soon as possible, returning to the public employees that effort made during the economic crisis. And we're also doing so in a covenant way with their representatives, just as we've seen in recent years doing, as far as possible, improvements in the performance of work by public employees. I'm going to cite just a few examples showing how you're shaping the desire for improvement that we compromise for public employees in Galicia. For example, more public employment squares, we agreed with trade union organizations to increase the internal promotion squares for employees, for this offer of 2016. And that duplication means we have almost double, or practically double, of what it was in 2015. This year is the largest public job offer in the last seven years. And we also agree with the representatives of the public workers that the 2017 public job offer focuses on the categories of workers with greater temporality. In part-time retirements, we also agree with the unions that, on a voluntary basis, a worker can apply for part-time retirement from the age of 61 with a reduction in his or her daily life from 25% to 75%. Each of these retirements translates into a new busy worker. For every retired worker, an unemployed person is treated. Also on holiday and free-will days we reached an agreement with the unions, to restate vacation and free-will days for the set of public employees. Few autonomous communities have carried out this reposition. In addition, we have also approved other important measures to promote the working conditions of public employees and their inclusion in the Autonomic Administration, as in this case were the first oppositions to intellectual disability that we call for people with intellectual disabilities. And we signed agreements both with Fademga and with Down Galicia to facilitate their entry into the administration. In particular, they are more than 509 Welsh families with a member with intellectual disabilities who are already registered to participate in this selective process and to be able to get a stable job in the Autonomic Administration. In fact, in the next legislation, the first officials selected by a specific summons for this type of intellectually disabled staff will take over, which I personally feel very proud of. We have also adopted new measures on the question of conciliation to strengthen the reconciliation of the working and family life of employees. We put in place a new permit to prepare for pregnant women, we create a paid permit for those who want to go to opposition in other administrations. We extend the breastfeeding permit, which public employees will make use of regardless of whether the other parent does not work. And we've completed important measures such as those that allow 8,500 public employees to now have the time flexibility or regulation of telework. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for the support of all groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u49	Quiet, please. I'm reading the bill text, I know what it's going to be... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes! Silence! If they don't like you, they'll take a shift and they can rebut it. But this seems to me to be the issue. Yes, yes, equivalent to pay. [[Protests.]] I'm not going to tell you now what this means, but it's talking about concepts equivalent to pay. You have to read the projects a little bit, eh! Go on, then, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u50	This bill, in summaries, allows public employees to recover all of this year's income from their first extra salary in 2013. It responds – something that seems to be affixing a lot – to an agreement signed with the representatives of the public employees... it looks like a lie, doesn't it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It extends the return in the average of 180 euros to all public employees in the autonomic public sector, but also to university staff and to the staff of concerted education. It prevents public employees from having to present resources – and someone will be significantly hurt by this measure. It prevents public employees from having to modify their statement of the year 2013 of the IRPF, and, together with the union agreement, it means canceling the general pay adjustments to the Welsh public employees that we had to abide by this government to shield public services. Thank you very much, and we won't be too angry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u51	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u52	Thank you, President. Since the councilman talked about what he wanted, I'm interested in talking about Brexit. I don't know if it has much to do with it, but I think it's an interesting subject. Because you came here to tell us what you say was an agreement with the trade unions of subjects that come for nothing in this bill, and that they come for nothing at all. They just sold us a movie to increase what they're going to pay for. Not only is it going to return to them January and February 2013, but we also agree to partial retirement, OPE, 10,000... that has nothing to do with this law, nothing comes of this law, nothing! In fact, the amendment we tabled is going precisely to recover all that you are now trying to sell. But you didn't do it in the law, you come here to advertise something that isn't in the law, something that isn't written, something that doesn't exist, a commitment that doesn't exist. So you are, as the People's Party always does, using this House to make electoral propaganda from the People's Party, to create non-existent expectations and, of course, to lie and deceive the population. I must also refer to Mr Tellado's intervention. Mr. Tellado – and I said: neither the horse of Santiago – that this is what the workers and the workers claim. Mr. Tellado, you're wrong, they demand much more. They demand that all that was stolen be returned to them, because what you did was a robbery. Because it can't be that what is agreed through negotiation one of the parties unilaterally breaks it by decree. That's theft, that's not democracy, that's an attack on democracy. But, of course, you understand democracy as you understand it. That's why they have the courage, Mr. Counsellor, because you must have the courage, to come here to say that it is presented by single reading because the text is brief. Which has nothing to do with its transcendence, of course, but, briefly, you're worth it, aren't you? And it also prevents individual complaints. What a face, Counselor! What a face when they turned to the Supreme! when they tried not to pay the workers their wages until the Supreme told them they had no choice but to pay. And now he says it's about doing the workers and the workers a favor. What a face to have! And besides, to talk about the effort the Government will make, the Government, because the money is from the Government, it must be from the PP. The effort is not made by the Greeks and the Greeks; the effort is made by the Government, who strives for and his shirt. Poor thing, they've dropped the salary to the minimum to be able to pay, poor government! No, sir, the effort is of the Greek society, of the Greek society. And you hardly use the money of the Greeks to throw them into their advertising campaigns and to rob public workers of their rights, as they did. But despite this law, still things are pending. First, I have to start by recognizing that in the substitution amendment that I presented, the amendment to the whole, let me fail to put "2013 year" in point 1, in the third paragraph. That's all it takes, but to make it clear to you that it's a mistake. And if you want to approve, the wrong is easy to correct. The full recovery of the extras from 2013 to 2016 remains pending. In principle, you could pay – which is what I claim in my amendment – the full extras of 2013, 2014, 2015 and that this year the full payments of 2016 and 2017 are paid. Because we come here to sell an agreement with three trade union power stations as an agreement from the Bureau that is taken in June – at least the agreement will be announced in June – when you yourself announced these measures in March. Therefore, you announced before you negotiated. He just introduced it to the negotiating table. And the General Bureau, of course, accepted that piece because it's better than nothing, of course. But that's not what workers and workers ask. So we are therefore faced with a new use of public administration staff. But in order to really make the campaign right, you should accept the amendment to the whole that I present and repeal Law 1/2012, of February 29, of temporary measures. The law, in its explanatory statement, says, "The serious budgetary situation and the need to reduce the public deficit requires a series of extraordinary urgent and temporary measures." That's what we said in 2012. Temporality has gone on forever, since 2012 stealing wages from public workers and workers. And he goes on to refer to economic circumstances: "...they must act swiftly on the part of the Union to provide immediate measures guaranteeing the principle of budgetary stability." I understand that, after all that they sell us, we are the champions of control; this is more than overcome. And it follows: "The impossibility of adopting these measures by decree...". Please! PP likes to rule by decree. It is unfortunate that he could not make a decree and he had to bring it to Parliament because, if he could, there was no debate here, and he had it in his own law: we couldn't do it by decree, we had to take him to Parliament and stop the opposition. Adds the explanatory statement also: "The nature of this law is temporary so that its circumstance and vigil are subject to the existence of difficult economic circumstances" – which I understand has been announced for a year now that these difficult situations have ended – "and covers the total number of employees and public employees". So, of course, the law has to include everyone. Obviously, if we take note of the information being sent to this House by both the President and you, Councillor of Fairy, the economic circumstances are the best in the state. On the 11th of this month, Feijóo announced a meeting with Greek entrepreneurs that the Government of Greece is planning to grow the biggest economy of the announcement; it would be 2.8 against the beginning 2.5, and a tenth above what the Bank of Spain had fixed. He explained that the review at the top is for good export data, the reduction in VAT, IRPF, industrial production and employment. Everything's going great here! Why aren't workers and public workers paid? Galicia, says the president, will grow some tenths above the state. It's just that we're kicking out! And we keep stealing from the public workers? No, no, no, no. In the face of an economic situation that allows you to lower taxes and grow above the average of the state, which, according to Rajoy, has already grown above the average of Europe, if I speak of Galicia, is that he leaves his place. We grew above the average of the state, which grows above the average of Europe. We were the best in the world! Therefore, it makes the right of workers and public workers to recover the amounts no longer received between 1 March 2013 – which is what does not cover this law – and 31 December 2015 – and then to pay the full extra payments in 2016, advancing to 2016 this 2017 agreement, which you sell as an agreement. On this initiative, we call for a derogation from the temporary measures adopted in Law 1/2012 because it suspends social security benefits in case of sick leave, because it suspends all call, concession and social action, because it has amended the Law of Public Service, extending the stay in the active service, because it affected the days of free will – which you now sell here, outside the law, a film that we don't know what it is going about – and because it gives the Board of Trustees to be able to reduce the day-to-day and the salary of the intern until five years; that is, a very aggressive law for the working class. In line with that established for the public sector as a whole, Law 1/2012 also suspends the validity of certain articles of the V Collective Convention – a fraud of collective bargaining!–. Thus, it amends article 19 regarding the release of Sundays and holidays. I don't know if this change is what Junta understands by reconciling working, personal and family life: she forces to work more Sundays and more holidays for staff already working on Sundays and holidays, preventing them from taking their breaks; she also took them right to the dining room, right to retirement gratification, and the additional third provision on the right to rest on Christmas or Holy Week. That staff, who works holidays at Christmas, on Holy Week, who chinche!, because what else does it give, if most don't know what precarious work is? They are measures taken on the basis of a law, because it could not be done by decree, but that, in any case, they were not negotiated with union representation, although they are all matters of negotiation in the General Bureau. An act that broke the basis of good faith in negotiation that must deny the whole labor relationship, because every right usurped through legal changes was an attack on the rights of the working class, on democracy and on the commitment of honor that must have every covenant. Because an agreement is a pact, a commitment, a contract that can't be broken unpunished on one side and much less when that part is the Government that legislates to legalize illegals, leaving the working class completely unprotected. Rights which have been fought, earned little by little, negotiated to the detriment of others and which have been stolen, through Law 1/2012, from successive laws of general budgets both of the Board and of the State and of the Royal Decree 3/2012, from urgent measures for the reform of the labour market, which were directly to the rights of the working class while amnestying the fraudsters. That was his policy. That's why you don't understand when you talk about progressive taxation here, you don't understand that public money can't be used unpunished so that fraudsters can live well, so that Rodrigo Rato and company clean up money and pay less taxes than they had to pay, losing the state millions of euros stolen, with their friends; that's right, then we're still friends of cupboard and nothing happens. And that money they stole, all the money they stole from the People's Party, for example in Valencia – which is accused of being a criminal organization that joins in order to use public money for their benefit – all that came out of the people's money. You stole it directly from the people, so I don't understand the election result. I can't understand how Mr. Tellado can come here bragging about an election result that, of course, the only thing he can talk about is the lack of democratic quality in this country. [[Murmurs.]] I know it's funny for you because, as you don't believe in democracy, it's funny for you. For you democracy is voting every four years and having the legal capacity and legal possibility to break the agreements that you yourself sign to harm popular classes for the sake of the theft of your own political frameworks. That's why we defend this amendment to the whole, which establishes the recovery of usurped rights to workers and public workers between the years 2013 and 2015, by entering the whole part of their wages, which was deducted from them in September. The law says this year, the week before the autonomic elections, to raise the votes, by then more or less; i.e., the disarray is so enormous, the lack of political ethics is so enormous, that something of which was spoken in March of its application is going to lead to the autonomous elections, so that they look at the good that is the Government of the People's Party and how much it cares about the workers and the public workers. We also propose the recovery of the outstanding payments already in 2016 and the derogation from Law 1/2012, which annulled by decree the rights won in the union struggle. So, if you really told us all... as you will understand, here comes and tells us what days of free will. The normal thing was that I had a report on those agreements, to see where they were recovered and how those agreements were signed, because, in principle, there is absolutely nothing. If you really, as I said here, want to speak not only of that part of January and February, but of many other rights that have been usurped, stolen, to the workers and public workers, it's time. At this moment we can approve that workers and public workers will recover everything they've been robbed of, and it's more – and it's done that we're good! – we don't ask for any interest... in laughing, Mrs. Romero. If I go to my bank and tell you: I don't pay now because I'm sick, I bring you what I pay and then I don't pay you or interest... it's an act of vandalism; what you did was institutional vandalism. [[Mrs. Romero Fernández: I don't laugh.]] So if, of course, they want to solve it, they return everything they've usurped and, if not, they don't come here with propaganda, because this isn't a place to advertise, for that they already have others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u54	Now they touch on us to comment on the content, because you really came to talk about something else and not the content of the bill – which was not a preliminary draft, which was what it was in that agreement that comes from the CEO of June 8, 2016 –. You were clearly talking about a preliminary draft, and you yourself had that lapse, you talked about a preliminary draft and then you had a bill. You actually talked about the O.P.E.P., you talked about conciliation, you talked about aspects of what you're saying they've reached these trade unions agreements. Man! at least in the agreement we have before us, in the DOG, there's nothing of it. So, sometimes I don't trust just the words they say, I need other aspects. Because if it was to be trusted in the word given and in the word written, at the fourth point it clearly says: "The Council of Galicia undertakes to recover in the Budget Act for 2017 the two additional payments of the specific supplement or equivalent remuneration in the Administration of Justice and in the education agreed according to its pay system." I looked in the text of the bill, in the articulate – not in the explanatory statement, that the explanatory statement does not have that force of law – and I did not find it. So let me doubt if the intentions really really go in the line of what you're here about. When you speak, it seems that things happened because of some sort of impossibility, of divine intervention, which forced them. It was a political decision to cut the wages and labour rights of workers in the public sector in Galicia. It was a political decision. They did not fail to perceive it because it was almost as a will, an effort; an effort, no, it was an obligation, an obligation for them to be cut, indeed, first 5% and then all those rules that emanated from the authoritarian right that wanted to subject the working class to their austere frenzy, and so it was. That's why we clearly say that all the attacks and the suspension of rights that the working class actually lived came from the hand of Law 1/2012 of February 29. That's what the future attacks that came through the budgets are based on and that even remained in the 2015 Employment Act. There they are. So we wanted a real text, a real bill to be able to work, amend and see if there was any will in the Executive – because we know that power division is already a fallacy – to accept that dialogue with opposition groups through the amendment work. That's why we oppose the single reading, not by mere obstructionism, as Mr. Tellado said or "the absent Tellado." I mean, that was the will. We understand that a series of attacks have occurred on the working class, on its rights; rights that the judgments are acknowledging as rights of justice. And you, especially through this project, who says, "... loaned in the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013," know that the budgets started on 1 March 2013 and that they acted badly, and that performance retroactively is the one that is being penalized. You are obliged, from the judgments that were so recognized – as you recognize in the agreement itself, the collective, that of the fifth personal agreement, the collective of the fifth agreement – to act. So that's not the will, that kind character you want to wear, "It's the good move of the economy." I have strong suspicions about that good march from the economy. Another thing is that you use well the sources that you have to disseminate, make up and manipulate reality. That's different. They have very powerful and resounding speakers out there, in the media scene, of course. That's because, besides, as we live in an era of capitalism, customerism is paid through money. Well, we understand perfectly well that it's hard to break that blouse that you're doing with respect to that technocratic fable that you're introducing to us through the restitution of rights, but drop the drop. This goes well, the march of the economy works, but we're going to drop the drop, when it's best for us, when we're interested, even if we've had judgments against it for months. And now it's urgent and necessary and we accelerate the process, but we can't get the opposition to really debate and dialogue, but by imposing our will on most people through the Executive. Because that's what's at the bottom of this process that we're discussing today in single reading: urgency, and with a vote, that – I say – ours, logically, will not be in favour of what you bring us here. [[Murmurs.]] So, what you're doing in addition to that is kind of: instead of recognizing that you've acted improperly and irregularly by retroactively applying that breakdown, that subtraction of wages, instead of recognizing it – which you're not at any point in time because you use very well the words not to understand that you've done wrong – instead of recognizing that effect, you're doing it is bringing us a soft, kind of alms: the working class is favored by our magnanimity, by the good behavior of the economy, and of course, as they worked so hard, here's the prize for that effort! We're talking about violated rights, stolen rights, rights that are degraded, because you've praised everything you say you're going to do, all those supposed agreements, agreements that are contained behind you. Well, I could say that the perception we have is that there's a precarious one left, that there's a impoverished salary left, that there are temporary and partial unstable jobs left. Now it will reconvene in summer, of course, the season of services and hospitality (services-tourism-see), but we will return to reality and structurally will remain a precarious one. [[Murmurs.]] And that's what's going to stay because we have the lowest wages in every state and we have the lowest pensions in every state, that's the reality. When 30% of the wage class pays 700 euros or less, because you'll tell me! We could talk about that fable, of course, and the counterfeit because, logically, we have our eyes and you have yours, as legitimate or not as ours. Well, let's go on. So you, the Government Feijóo – let's also remember – decided to cut the specific or equivalent supplement into the two extra payouts of all its staff, being Galicia one of the few communities that does so. An additional cut is applied to the already weakened purchasing capacity of the staff member. Since May 2010, workers and public workers have been paid extra incompletely by being cut into components of salary and trienniums, and in Galicia we have added the specific or equivalent supplement. Well, we say that the performance you bring here is far from being guided by an equal principle. The project only appeals to the recovery of this specific complement without alluding to the other components, without discussing the principle on which the attack is based on the wage and labour rights of the public sector staff – and I have already said so – Law 1/2012. This law should be repealed. We must appeal to the full recovery of all the salary that has been stolen from the payrolls of workers and workers, not only of 2013, but of 2014, 2015 and 2016. Or, at least, in this bill, you should bring a calendar, a cantonization of the full recovery of extra pay. I mean, this is going to be the commitment at least to know that it's not just this 2013 and then to see what happens. And, therefore, we do not believe – we say it – in the words that gives us the right hand, we do not believe at all, and we want to see facts. For our group – we reread – it is unacceptable to include in an alternative bill of derogation from Law 2012. In this law – we remember – a two-year deadline was set to review its vigil. It's been said before by the voicer of the Mixto, it's been four years since its promulgation, temporality in you is long, and so it goes. That's why we're in an increasingly precarious job, and that precarious work is growing because you actually act according to need and, yes, with electoralist and partisan vision. That's how the People's Party Executive acts. And, above all, they do it when they don't get tired of asserting economic recovery. You said it here: the march of the economy is going well. Well, I have my doubts, AGE has his doubts that the march is going well. People didn't see the benefits of this recovery in their homes, they didn't see the benefits of that recovery in their purchasing capacity, nor did they eliminate spores and compensations in certain access to public services; for us they are still degraded those public services. Therefore, the bill does not respond to a desire for good management of the Executive, it responds to an obligation. They're under obligation, but they don't want to recognize it because the judgments are there, and if there were many more judgments, it would be a fairly questionable government, of course. That's what motivates this bill, which is not a preliminary draft, which was what was asked to be able to debate and dialogue. There are therefore many aspects missing, such as – we repeat – the derogation from the law, explicit recognition, the full recovery of the specific complement and other complements from 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, as well as the recovery of labour and social rights and the recovery of the sectoral agreement. You spoke to some who have already agreed. We would like to see the texts written, like this one, which is in the DOG, because here, in this agreement which is supposed to emanate from the same discussion, these aspects are not collected. And, curiously, what it is that does not appear in it is not collected in the articulate of the bill firmly, so we don't know what the intention of the Executive is, what your intention is. It will be true that you activate this as an embolden in an interesting and partisan, electoralist way, to fulfill the popular party's desire to appear to be a good manager and that when the elections come soon that stays there, that's why you act magnanimously now. I hope that people, whose society is gallant, will not be fooled by you. Anyway, we could keep talking about the agreement itself, but I'd just like to remember that you actually extend to each worker the right you have for yourself. You're talking here about how good it is to universalize. You've indeed universalized the cuts, or universalized the cuts. Of course, it's logical that they universalize restitution, but they do it in a partial and fragmented way; therefore, it's the least expected of a government that applied the cuts universally and globally, totally, without compassion. And, therefore, don't you think we have to rejoice at your magnanimity, because you apply universality in a fragmentary way. We appeal to a universality in full, total, recovering the total of what has been demolished, from which it has been extracted from all payrolls since 2013 until now. Because it's not just a year, it's a number of, it's a lot of purchasing capacity, plus interest, late interest, they're there. That is why we cannot support this text favourably because there are many aspects missing and because only what you do is a facewash; a facewash that, in addition, does not firmly take up the commitment that extra payments will be recovered in 2017. It's not in the joint firmly. And, therefore, if you're not firmly articulated in the articulate, I don't know if I can trust an exposition of motives where you are, because the exposition of motives has no rank of law, only the articulate, as I understand the jurists. So, nothing more and thank you very much. And I strongly hope that you with that fable that was created, that you tried to report to us here, think a little bit about reality, and don't try to make makeup to manipulate the imagination of Greek society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me, Mr. Tellado, to dedicate only a minute to your intervention to tell you that, if the Government wishes, this bill could be processed by the ordinary procedure, since the judgment has been known since February 2016. But by putting on us that you are so democrats and that you have given them an air of democrats in recent months and they have wanted to wait for it to be approved, agreed, with the trade union organizations that signed the agreement, given that the agreement was signed on June 2, it could have been dealt with by the urgent procedure, but by the ordinary procedure, as, of course, Mr. Tellado, we are also doing with the Transport Act to arrange a disguise of the People's Party – yes, yes – according to a judicial ruling. [[Murmurs.]] And instead of being discussing here a single-reading bill, we would have discussed taking account of the previous plenary session and today we would be in a position trying to reach agreements, trying to negotiate and try to make a law that really responds to the interests of workers and workers and not only the propaganda interest of the People's Party. Because, Counselor, let me tell you that the greatest finding that this was for you was just a plate to advertise was your own intervention in the defense of this bill, in which you spoke absolutely less of the content of this law. And he talked about all the issues relating to public employees, even those that have not yet been made about the restitution of rights. And, of course, it didn't even take your intervention to know that this is once again a gross manipulation of workers' rights in the Italian public sector, because you, unfortunately, have many backgrounds in this area. But we're going to the debate about what we have on the table. We have a bill that introduces the Government that simply obeys the restitution of legality. There is a provision – a better action – of the Galician Board that the Administration of Justice considers illegal with respect to workers affected by the fifth convention, which is that, with the approval of the budgets of the Union for 2013 on 27 February 2013, which come into force on 1 March, you, in application of these budgets, decide retroactively to portray them – robar them, is the terminology that we are usually using in this plenary – to public employees also the proportional part of the specific complement corresponding to the months of January and February. This clearly violates the principle of irretroactivity of laws when it affects individuals. And that's what the High Court of Justice says of this collective conflict and then the Supreme Court in its appeal. So what you do with this bill is strictly comply with a judicial sentence because you, the Government of Galician Union, committed an illegality. End point. No kindness, nothing you give to anyone, just follow a sentence that commands to repair an illegality. And the least you could expect from a government that intends to assume that it wants to restore rights to public employees and that it wants to improve the living conditions of public workers, and above all that this leads to the best functioning of public services, is that you, instead of coming here to advertise the offer of public employment after thousands of public jobs have been destroyed in our country in recent years, instead of talking here about a practically non-existent conciliation or partial retirement, should come here and talk to us about when and how you think you will return the rights that have been taken from public employees over these years. Because it must be remembered, Counselor, that it is true that the first theft that was committed with the civil servants in Greece and throughout the state committed it in 2010 Mr. Zapatero. Yes, yes, of course! but all this has already been said in this gallery on multiple occasions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Zapatero committed it when, by legislative decree, he decided to deduct 5% of his salaries from public employees. But it's just that the Galician Union was Mr. Zapatero's most advanced student in stealing rights from public employees. Because you didn't think 5% of them did. So, in the 2013 Budget Act, they decided that, in addition to 5%, they had to be taken out of the specific complement of extra payments, and they didn't get to do it in 2013. They were made in 2013, in 2014, in 2015 and in 2016. And yet they did not think so, Counselor. Even so, it seemed to them little and also, through Law 1/2012, they decided not only wage cuts – certainly a law that entered this Parliament within a few days of the adoption of the Budget Act, where there was no need to make such cuts – but after a week more rights should be cut to public employees. Because, in fact, you were meant to make ideological discounts of rights, and it wasn't just a matter of saving. That's why the Galician Nationalist Bloc presents a whole amendment with alternative text. Mr. Tellado, no obstructionism, we present here an alternative text that replaces your unique article with several articles. And he says in Article 1 that we are going to comply with the Supreme Court's judgment and, therefore, we are going, on an immediate basis, to return all employees and employees in the Italian public sector to the proportional part corresponding to January and February 2013, which is what the extra payment says. But we're not going to return it to them during 2016, because that's, you know, Counsellor – and you know that – another element of electoral manipulation. Do you want to return it to you the day before, two days before, three days before the date that Mr. Feijóo points out to have to vote for the Greeks and the Greeks? No, we're gonna put a date here and now, and the date has to be on the August payroll. It is time, Counsellor, that it is perfectly time for the administrative services of the entire Greek public sector to have the payroll prepared, because budgetary clearance is already established through this document itself, so that it will be paid with the August payroll. We set a second point, which is that the rest of the 2013 leftover, from 1 March 2013 until December 2013, we're going to give it back to you in the remainder of the year. That's if, in fact, we're going to give them back what's left of the year, what's left of them to perceive in 2013. In a new article we will lay down the obligation for the Government of Greece, whatever it is and which must be drawn up for the 2017 budgets, that these 2017 budgets should be recorded the amounts necessary for the year 2017 to return to them the specific supplements which have ceased to be received in 14, 15 and 16. And we're also going to correct a government forgetfulness, because you talked here according to the trade union organizations, but you forgot to fit into the law the obligation for the government, whatever goes out of the polls and what you have to comply with this law and you have to prepare the budgets for 2017, that in the 2017 budgets you already see the recovery of the integrity of the extra payments of all employees in the Greek public sector, which means that extra payments have to be equivalent to all of any monthly remuneration, except of course, productivity or similar concepts. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, here is a fundamental debate that is mixed, that I have mestigated premeditatedly and that I now want to clarify. There is a debate on legality, and the legality in this case seeks to repair what the Supreme Court considers illegal, which is the month of January and February 2013. But there is a debate about illegitimacy that we also have to address in this Parliament. It is the debate about whether it was legitimate for public employees to pay, to a lesser extent, the cuts in the Government of Galicia. We must also debate what is legitimate now that the People's Party has been pretending for three months to assume from that fund of surplus responsibility, that even if we get the money out of our ears to the Greek Administration, that almost every board in the Union is as if it were a sort of rock of Mr. Feijóo handing out bonds and help from one another and counsellor's appearances here too in plan stone, works in schools, institutes, covered courtyards, improvements, etc. Because that's the situation, fair and legitimate, too, is that the Government of Galician Union sees within this process a timetable, which is what we propose through this amendment to the whole of it with alternative text, from when they will progressively return the rights that have been stolen from public employees during these years. I know we're talking about considerable amounts from the budget point of view because we're counting, but if we're aware that the government itself is talking about economic recovery, that the government's forecast is going to increase GDP, it's therefore perfectly assumed in that scenario that you expect a growth of 3%, which represents about 1,700 million more gross domestic product in our country and which, therefore, will also result in, according to your doctrine, in public revenues. So it's perfectly assumed with the timetable that we set this amendment to the whole. Finally, we also introduced in this amendment to the whole – in addition to the issues I have already explained and the authorization of the extraordinary credit necessary to meet the obligations that this text we present establishes for the year 2013 – a derogatory provision with which we intend to repeal Law 1/2012. Look, Counsellor, you here in September – excuse me, in October or September – when we discussed the previous law of return from a part of the extra 2012, he told us that he would negotiate with the unions the recovery of all rights of Law 1/2012. Some, indeed, have been negotiating, but there is a fundamental question that you have not negotiated and which is central: the recovery of the right to collective bargaining, which you have systematically violated both with the approval of Law 1/2012 and with the approval of the successive cuts that have been introduced through the Budget Laws of Galicia. Therefore, that law must already be repealed, which, by the way, in its own provision established that it would be reviewed within two years if economic conditions allowed it. I, in this parliament, have been listening to PP for years that we are going to be wonderful, that we are recovering more than anyone. And yet this review does not occur. Finally, we also consider – and we insist, this is also presented on the occasion of the law I mentioned earlier – some changes in the Public Employment Act, specifically in its Articles 118 and 132, through which we maintain that rights of public employees have been reduced in addition to being consolidated through the law. And finally, we also present an amendment to Law 16/2010, of the organization and operation of the public sector in Galicia, because there are labor disputes in different public entities dependent on the Government of Galicia that would be resolved if the Union complied with the law as it is now. But let us say that through this amendment, we intend that all workers in the Italian public sector who do not have their own agreement on the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union should already be applied. Because otherwise they are violating their rights, they are undergoing tremendous inequalities in the field of public administration. Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Here are two texts, one text that simply does it is to act according to what the judges order, to repair the illegality committed by the Government of Galician Union, and on the other hand we have a text, the amendment that presents the Galician Nationalist Block, which, in addition to repairing legality, is also a progressive act of justice in this exercise and in the subsequent restitution of rights that we consider to have been unlawfully removed from public employees in this country. And, therefore, he intends to return legitimacy to this Parliament, which is where those laws were passed, and also to the Government of Galician Union in relation to public employees. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u58	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, it seemed that he was in any Nordic country, you seemed to be the minister, the public official, of a country that is growing up and that all of his citizenship is noticing it. But the truth is that this is not the reality, not to say Nordic countries with rights as well as the ones you were talking about, of conciliation, the ones that you so often cost the socialists to put on their heads for so many years. The truth is that we are debating a project because the Government is heeding the warnings that both the trade union organizations and opposition groups have made over the position that you have taken on the subsidiary claim, as well as the legitimate demand for the return of these supplements to all personnel affected by the flaps. And not only the unions and the opposition, but, as the rest of the voices said, and what is much more serious, they ignored the judgments that confirmed the illegality of the actions they were carrying out. You just gave your arm to twist, you just gave it to twist for a resolution that affects the staff, and with which you intend to hang a pre-election medal. The truth is that it's what we've been used to in the last few months: bringing initiatives, bringing bills, which they're trying to do is to wash their faces, is to wash the disastrous management that you've done during these years, a disastrous management of which, of course, does not escape the Greek public service. To those who are seeing us, this is not the teleshopping channel – and I say it with all my respect to this House – that is a Parliament, it is the channel of the Galician Parliament, since you are constantly making offers. And I tell you that, it looks like the teleshopping channel, they're making pre-election offers every day. Advertising and propaganda that, as I told you in my first intervention, is a fraud, Counselor, because you come here, as Mr. Ron said earlier, masking that you have made a very serious mistake. Taking advantage of Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, they offer that from January 2017 they will restate the specific complement or equivalent concept in extraordinary wages, which, they say, will be shaped into the law of budgets for the next exercise. Everything in the air, Counselor. Because we wonder where's the budget law that's going to make that return to public employees covering that percentage that was taken from them. It does not exist, it does not appear in the articulate of this project, although in the explanatory statement. Do you know there are elections this year? Do you know what's... Well, yes, yes, they should know, because as everything that is presented in this House is electoralist, because they will surely know. And do you know they're most likely not in front of the government? This, the seats of the board of assembly and the chairs here, this doesn't work like the presidency of the Ourense People's Party, it doesn't inherit. This is won by the votes of the citizen. It's an boldness and a lack of respect to be making election promises when we're about to have a few elections, and to commit to doing something like this, which we know of course they won't. Do you really think that employees and public servants believe them, Counselor? Yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] Well, to answer that question, we just have to look back and see if you've fulfilled your election promises. Because I don't think citizenship or that employees and public employees are fools, Counselor, and so I tell you. I don't know you, but I'm convinced that the workers and workers in the Welsh public service don't forget those statements – and I'm going to repeat it every time I go up to this gallery – "I won't ask the officials for more effort from the point of view of pay, they've done enough." You said today, and you lied again, a sentence, which I pointed out, "The Greek Government abides by the word given." And do you think Mr. Feijóo met when he told the officials he wouldn't cut them any more in full electoral precaution? Do you think you did it when in those same days on the National Radio microphones you said there was no need to cut wages, which was perfectly conciliable with reducing staff costs? He said: "In the 2013 budgets, Junta will have an enormous capacity to save on this expenditure, but through pathways such as the control of absenteeism, never with clippings." Damn hemerotheca, Counselor! Even on the six pages that his electoral program, the electoral program of the People's Party, was dedicated to the Welsh public service, there was no reference to these imminent clippings. And when we, the PSdeG, repeated to the satiety that you were lying, they called us liars, accused us of lying and deception, when it was demonstrated, when they were re-elected, that those who cheated and those who lied were you, who didn't feel empathy or understand the despair of those people, of the thousands, of thousands of people, who had manifested themselves at that time in Madrid against the clippings, also the public employees, of Mr. Rajoy. Because, Mr. Tellado, I'll tell you something I don't know if you know. Mr. Zapatero is not ruling, eh! I'm telling you if there's any doubt left, you're not ruling. In Andalusia we rule, but not Mr. Zapatero. You've been ruling for four and a half years in this autonomous community. Mr. Feijóo starts this path towards re-election with the same slogan he had in his previous autonomous elections: denying all his policy of public service and lying. Because we all know that, even if they're not going to rule, they've been hiding, in fact, in a new cut box. And I'm saying it by focusing on the data, because it took only two months, after the previous elections, to announce the 4% reduction in the average salary of employees and public employees in 2013, through the 40% cut in their extra payments, through the specific supplements. Yes, the same measure they intend to reverse today, which they intend to sell to us in this House today as a result of economic improvement. I, Counselor, don't know who that economic improvement is for. Because I imagine you've seen today the data from the INE's salary structure report, I imagine so. I imagine you've seen that we have 12% less gross than the state average, I imagine you've seen that we're the third autonomous community with the lowest wages. So I don't quite understand who's coming up with that recovery that you're selling. That measure, as I told you, that they want to sell us was an ideological measure. Because you never believed in public services and used the crisis as an alibi to do what you've always wanted to do: resort to privatization and resort to dismantling the whole public. And – I repeat – if you now reverse that situation, if you bring this bill now, it's not because you've changed your ideology, it's not because you've stopped wanting to dismantle services, it's because they're forced by judicial decisions, and they do because we're on electoral precaution. If we looked back, in the last ten years, the loss of purchasing power for workers and public workers in Galicia was 33.5%, a decline of more than four points higher than the employees of the public administrations in the whole state, which reached 29.2%. And I repeat once again, because before I saw him not knowing very well what he was talking about: the Socialist Group in this House, through a PNL debated on 16 March this year, he asked the Galician Board to give up the appeal for marriage before the Supreme Court on the specific complement of the two extra payments of the year 2013 of all his staff; an initiative that he did not go ahead because the People's Party voted against. When we registered that initiative, we have already heard the fourth sentence that in this case recognized the staff member of the central services of the Union the right to full payment of the specific supplements of the extra payments of that year. In addition, he condemned the Board to pay the costs; recognizing justice in many judgments, in which there was no silence in the administrative claim generally, the subsidiary claim of the third of the specific supplement of June, i.e. the part devindicated in January and February until the entry into force of the law of the Greek Budgets of that year. I mean, I knew there was illegality, I knew it, Counselor, for many even firm judgments. We would then remind him that, for the workers, the complaint through collective conflict, which had been resolved in the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, he had estimated this subsidiary claim. But you continued to insist and appealed to the Supreme Court in order to delay the inevitable to the greatest extent. Which, in addition to implying the possibility of paying the costs of these processes, which came out of the pocket of all the Welsh and Welsh – and I put as an example this staff member of central services who sentenced him in Santiago de Compostela on January 29th to 400 euros at the expense of the Galician Union – helped to saturate the judicial route. And in case you had little to bring in this project announced to bombo y dishillo that only announces the return of a percentage of the extra payment of 2013, which, as I said to you, is by obligation of the court rulings, without any further specificity, it turns out that they leave more than 50% of the people working in the Greek civil service. Yes, leave her out because, using sexist language, they invisibly invisible all women who work in the Greek civil service. It is shameful, Counselor, that the gender impact report has to correct this issue and that they do not apply in their daily management, cross-sectionally, that non-sexist language. And please don't tell me that you value the work of employees and public employees. Do you know what this is? Yes, Mr. Tellado, so do you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These are the employees of public television in Galicia, these are the employees of public television in Galicia, entering the office of the director of information... yes, Mr. Tellado, yes. [[Murmurs.]] It's the workers entering the office of the director of news on TV Galega to request his resignation; yes, and also entering the same wording. And she asked for it because last day 23 the treatment that gave the Minister of the Interior scandal in office was shameful, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. Yes, they protested against what was considered a brutal, intolerable and unacceptable manipulation in a public environment that owes itself to the right to information that the Greek citizenship has. It's not possible that anyone who says they respect public services is watching against freedom of communication and paying attention to the work being carried out by Welsh public television professionals. Then they offered Mr. Fernández Díaz as a victim, as a victim, without giving truthful information about a very serious fact, about a fact you remember, Counselor, at other times. To watch political parties and to use political institutions to destroy other parties, yes, Counselor, it is the same as other times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u59	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Everything is possible. Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] The amendments, on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u60	With regard to the amendment to the entire Joint Group, we shall vote in favour. We are going to vote in favour because we have always defended that the labour rights of employees and public employees must be returned immediately, because they should never be cut off. We're also going to vote in favour of the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. With regard to AGE's refund amendment, let's abstain, because I commented in my first intervention that, while I agreed that the procedure was not appropriate, this was a delay in payment for these families. And we believe that, really, there are people who need it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they really want to restore employees and public employees' rights, they vote in favour of a motion that the Socialist Group will present tomorrow in this House, otherwise we will be even more aware that today's is only a consequence of the pre-electoral campaign and that they are bound by judicial judgments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, these are the consequences of last Sunday's election hangover. It is despair, frustration to see how his speech does not match the reality of our country and his speech, in addition, is rejected by the social majority of our country. That's why they respond this way. They don't reason, they're still installed in the politics of blocking, that policy that leads them to lose the pulse of the street, to lose the pulse of reality. [[Applause]] And we have to do what we have to do is continue to govern for people, for people in the community and for people in the streets, who live the problems of day to day, who work in the Greek Public Administration, and who know perfectly well that 5% has been cut by the Socialist Party. That's the reality. And I, for Galicia, would you like me to tell you, I for Galicia want a Morrazo farm councilman, not a Nordic country economic minister, as you said. I want a Morrazo farm councillor. [[Applause]] You missed an opportunity to apologize for that 5% cut, it was a shame. But in any case, what I do expect is that on this occasion the vote of his group has spoken to him, at least, with Mr. Leicega, and that tomorrow we do not find in the press that Mr. Leicea does not share the opinion of his group and that this alignment with the most radical left is not shared by his candidate. Show you pictures. I wanted to show you a picture too. Do you know who I am? Don't I know if you see her well? Do you know who I am? [[Murmurs.]] Don't I know if you see him well? These are workers. They're also workers, they're workers of the Ferrol Council who protest for the bipartisan government employment policy of the Socialist Party and the Tide of Podemos. These protest, these want agreements, agreements like those that sign the government supported by the People's Party. We came here with a proposal that was endorsed by the majority of the union, by three unions. You come here with empty hands, and what happens in Ferrol doesn't matter. Because there you don't get into agreements, they're against everything. That's his policy. In short, you insist on error, you learn nothing, and it's frankly sad. What I have to tell you is that, look, a year ago, actually, in the municipal elections of a year ago, the People's Party received a call for attention from the electorate. That call of attention we heard and decided to make self-criticism. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Listen, Mr. Fajardo, and they won't lose their votes. Listen, Mr. Fajardo, and they won't lose their votes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u63	Silence, please, silence. Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u64	Indeed, we received a call from the electorate a year ago in those municipal elections, and we could do two things: look elsewhere, as does the radical left, or make self-criticism about what I had decided. We decided to make self-criticism, we decided to renew teams, renew attitudes, renew policies and detect two themes where the citizenry thought we weren't acting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u65	Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u66	...political regeneration and social inclusion. And we got to work, we weren't as upset as you guys on the bench...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u68	...we got to work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u69	Quiet. Applause is free, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u70	We approved a democratic impulse program... Excuse me, Mr. Tellado, excuse me a moment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Applause is free, of course it is free, but I ask them to respect who is in the use of the word. Because if this group when you're talking, it's impossible to keep order here. So I ask you to respect it because, if you don't, when you talk, you're going to do the same, and you're the least likely to talk. So be quiet, please. Quiet. Time will be compensated, calm down. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Man, of course! Go on, Mr. Tellado, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u71	Do you know what's going on? That this isn't Venezuela. This is a democracy and we must respect others. We must respect others. [[Applause]] That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Ron, you think you're the only Democrats, and that's why, when what happens on Sunday happens, people are wrong...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u72	Mr. Fajardo, call to order. Call to command on repeated interrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's the usual one, Mr. Fajardo, even gives me a certain shame to be having to call you in order all the time, but I have to call you back in order again. Go ahead, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u73	Well, instead of interrupting the intervention of others, what we did was self-criticism, to understand that for something they stopped voting. And we did what we did was put on the board plans and programs. Democratic impulse program, you didn't support it. It encouraged greater citizen participation, more prevention of corruption, more transparency, control of parties' finances. Later on, the Board of Trustees approved a plan to combat economic inequality, with measures in the wake of housing, energy, school material. This plan culminated a few days ago with the approval of the new single social agenda, agreed with the Galician NGOs. And the truth is, since humility, we've been able to correct what we thought people had punished us in elections a year ago. And we were right: the People's Party recovered 40,000 votes last Sunday. That's the reality. And you, the truth is, by joining them all, they lost 100,000 votes: 67,000 AGE or the Tides, 5,000 PSOE, 26,000 BNG, which divided in half. That's the reality. So have a little humility, listen to the majority group, the group that supports 41% of the Greeks, and therefore have a democratic behaviour. That's the reality. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] And that punishment that you've had is a very simple reading: citizenship doesn't value the blockade, citizenship doesn't value destructive attitudes, it doesn't value the absence of dialogue, it doesn't value the contempt of the political rival, which you practice in everyday life. Citizenship punishes prepotence and sovereignty, which is why its performance has been characterized in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here to fix a problem, you don't want to. You practice politics the worse, the worse, the worse people go, the better it will be to oppose Galicia, and we, of course, do not share that attitude. You align yourselves with those who want to boycott the agreements. Look, we brought up a bill agreed with three of the four union power stations, which you are going to vote against today. That's the reality, and therefore everyone else places where they think they need it. But we believe that you are wrong, to oppose the People's Party, to oppose Galicia, to oppose the representatives of the workers, to oppose the public employees of our country, to oppose Galicia, to oppose Galicia. You're against Galicia, that's the only reality; you're in that attitude of the worst, the better. And, of course, we have to tell them that we are not prepared for that situation to happen in Galicia. Look, our posture, the posture of the Galician Union, the position of the Galician People's Party, is diametrically opposed. During the crisis we had the logical tensions with the union power stations, we called for efforts, it was necessary to make adjustments that were not in the taste of anyone, and neither did we. But then we tried our word and said that those adjustments were temporary, and we said that, as soon as the economic situation improved, they would be reversed. You're against everything. In April last year we approved in this House the Public Employment Act, which committed a fund to go back to the 2012 extra payment gradually, until 2018. Not only do we fulfill what we promise, but we advance: in September this year public employees will have recovered 100 percent of that extra pay. In September last year, the State returned to its public employees on holiday and leisure days that had been withdrawn and enabled autonomous communities to do their own work with their staff. A month later, just a month later, Junta signed an agreement with the three union power stations to carry out this measure as soon as one month later. The first of the autonomous communities in our country. In February this year we also agreed with three trade union centres, Labour Commissions, UGT and CSIF – those you are going to vote against today – with these three, we also agreed on the rise of public employment supply markets to strengthen social services and the fire prevention and extinction service. And in this month, in the same agreement as the Board has undertaken to process this bill, we agreed with the trade union centres that, starting in January next year, the public employees will recover the full complement of the specific extra payments. We do this one year before the forecast, one year before the forecast; you're against it. That's the reality. And why are they against it? Because you despise everything at all. That's the situation, the attitude in which they're installed. You don't care that there are eight thousand and five hundred people benefiting from the time flexibility system that this government has implemented; it gives them exactly the same. You don't care that we'll extend the maternity leave; it gives them exactly the same. You don't care that we've introduced a daily adaptation system for those public employees who are subjected to radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatments, you don't care. [[Murmurs.]] You give them exactly the same because, of course, you want to keep saying that this government is mistreating public employees. And it's not true, it's not true. And you know what's going on? Officials know. The officials know what's going to vote here and they know who they're going to charge and who they won't charge if we didn't have a majority to guarantee Galician political and institutional stability. They know perfectly well. [[Applause]] You don't fool anyone. And, therefore, officials fully understood what a temporary adjustment meant and understood, and they value – as they are demonstrating by signing these agreements with the Council of Galicia – that this government fulfils its commitment and that, as far as possible, we advance the deadlines set. Officials understand that the first duty of this government was to support public services with very small budgets. They understand what it is to manage the shortage, because they themselves live day by day to manage that shortage. If you didn't spend on the bipartite what wasn't there, we probably weren't in the current situation. You continue to deny reality, you continue to deny reality, which is very good for you. [[Murmurs.]] And look, officials understand, in addition, that this bill is accompanied by an economic memory that amounts to exactly the cost of the extraordinary pay: 25 million euros, which are above the table. So that's the reality. I very much doubt that officials will understand, Mr Ron, those amendments and the alternative texts of the BNG and the Joint Group, which are a letter to the kings of the magicians; that is indeed electoral propaganda, but the propaganda of the bag. I doubt they understand their lies, the lies of Galician opposition. They speak of the savage destruction of public employment when Galicia was half the average of the autonomous communities throughout the country; half, Mrs. Blanco. That's the reality, that they keep talking about 4,000 teachers less when they've been explained to them in this House, repeatedly, that they're making the comparison with an inflationed data of the year 2010, in which the official and interim squares were double counted. So, look, the public employees, just like the citizenship in general, are seeing a party and a government that does what it says and is showing a sense of responsibility, a government that is proving that the sacrifices were temporary and necessary to save our community from that bankruptcy and the rescue to which the socialists had appealed to us. That was reality, and, of course, we're reverting to the situation. At the level of public employment, with the successive return of extra wages, days and supplements, but we are also doing it at the general level, with that surplus of responsibility that I am glad Mrs. Paz Franco cited, that surplus that allows us to do in this summer works in a nursery center, in half of Galicia's educational centres, works in seventy-four social centers and works in twenty-three health centers. That's the surplus of responsibility; that's the surplus of good management of a government that worked while you were openly committed to demagogy. And so that surplus of responsibility also allows us to extend the welcome card, also allows us to bet on the good care and let us bet on the freeness of public transport. So you continue to do this because, in the face of responsibility and rigour, what is an opposition in which the Greeks believe and trust less, an opposition that said the adjustments would be so forever and now they see how the situation turns out and those adjustments are returned. So that's the situation, an opposition that lives on the Pataleo and on the permanent blockade. That's the policy you practice. That's what Galician citizenship sees, opposition gentlemen, and that's why what happened this Sunday happened; what happened happened happened and so this opposition lost 100,000 votes, while the People's Party was regaining confidence by 40,000 Greeks. That's the way it goes. That's the way it will be. Keep going that way, we'll keep working for the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u74	Amendments, on amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u75	...and within the Greeks, also for the public employees of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u76	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u77	The amendments are clear that they have no meaning, that the law has a clear objective, and therefore we are asking the opposition to abandon demagogy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u78	You don't accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u79	...that they hear the citizens and vote in favour of this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica of amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u81	Thank you, President. Well, I'm a little lost because we've been told about day care, health centers, conciliation, maternity leave... that I don't know what this law has to do with. And we're still insisting on talking about anything else to make it obvious and not keeping in mind that what the Government is doing with this bill is to comply with a sentence. What they don't want to be clear is that the Government has resorted to all the judgements of the courts of first instance, and the judgement of the Supreme Court of Galicia, and that it pays because it has no more remedy, but that the Government's will was to continue to rob the public workers and workers, who had to resort to justice over and over again. And Junta, using public money and using public resources, devoted itself – with these public goods – to going against the rights of public workers and workers. It's a citizen robbery what you did! To insist on the right not to pay and now come here in full electoral campaign to say that this is the Government's own will. I don't know what value you give to the contracts you sign as a government, I don't know what value you give to the agreements you sign. What I understand is that the value that you give to the agreements that sign with union representation is zero, because if you skip it when it looks to you. You're violating the law by failing to comply with agreements that are signed with trade union organizations. So you're not to be trusted, because today we approve this law, but if tomorrow it's okay, we're automatically removed from another place where I destiny everything and take back rights to the working class, to the workers and public workers, and nothing happened here. Because, as you can, which are the ones that legislate and have an absolute majority, this is your court and do what you want from this House, and the last one that interests you are the public workers and workers, the working class in general and citizenship in general. Because it's not just cuts that hit the workers and the public workers, it's all the cuts, the straws, the payouts and more that got into the whole city, regardless of their income. So they come here again to advertise the public employees' accounts. They're always, they've been, the most punished, by decree, their rights have been taken away from them and, in addition, they're still using us as electoral propaganda. You say it's a proposal evaluated by the majority of the union, accepted by the majority of the union. And what are you going to tell the majority of the union? They're buying the sentence. Of course, what did the unions want you to say? Don't they follow the sentence? Obviously. [[Murmurs.]] What's wrong is there was a union saying: no, they owe us a lot more. And since if you fill your mouth with the good that goes economically, the good that they are and the good that they do and all the surplus they have, they pay the public employees, that's what the union tells them. And the others tell them: they obey the law; of course, they do, of course they have to do it. You're talking about fighting economic inequality and big deal with NGOs. And that's how you understand social equality; social equality is not dependent on charity; it's not that the poor have help. What we have to do is share income and expenses, what we have to do is change taxation so that those who earn the most pay so that we all have the same rights, so that no one has to have a poor money so that they can have rights. It's a shame that in the 21st century there are Greeks and Greeks who have to go with the poor meat in order to pay for the heating, with the poor meat in order to eat, with the poor meat for everything. And you are proud to keep the society of the poor's flesh, what a wonder, gentlemen, what a wonder! Meanwhile, for the big media that did the election campaign to him, see, or are we stupid, or are we stupid? What did the first-year grants come in addition to the ones they already had? To be campaigned. You manage very well, of course, the big companies and the big media. You say, Mr. Tellado – I think it was you – that the worst, the better for the opposition. Well, look how well the People's Party does: it impoverished the middle class to levels that were no longer remembered; it raised the social divide in an incredible way; the poor are increasingly poorer; the rich are richer; there are increasingly poorer; there are less and less rich; but the rich have more; that is, an enormous wage gap. It increased the gender wage gap, increased child poverty. The PP therefore understands charity. You don't do politics, you do charity. And besides, Mr. Tellado boasted, saying, no, we've already brought here the extra payment of 2012 to pay and we'll finish paying in 2018. It's amazing!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u82	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u83	I owe you an extra pay...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u84	End, please
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u85	...put it in six years to pay for drops and Mr. Tellado comes here to make a fuss that they paid a debt that they have, an absolute illegality, against drops until 2018. And by the way, the most indecent thing you've done is that at these heights of democracy, at these heights of the century, they have workers and workers without an application agreement, applying to them the Staff Regulations, rather than applying them – as they have been obliged for years – the V Workers' Convention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u87	A political indecency. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u88	Please comment on the amendments made by the other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u89	I will support the amendments of the other groups, of course, because at the bottom we all demand exactly the same.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u91	Well, the truth that you have no loss to listen to Mr. Tellado's modesty is expressed in this rostrum because with it it it seems that the People's Party recovers its kindest face and the political work best adapted with wisdom, arguments and epistemic depth. I hope you can understand my irony because, of course, every time I hear it produces me, really, intellectual abraio, by saying something nice. Well, let's go on. [[Murmurs.]] As we said, Mr. Tellado also used his opportunity to shoot at everything that moved: shooting at Zapatero, at the Bipartite, shooting at the tides, of course, the tides of Podemos. So with that sister you say it constantly, ignoring political reality, we know she does it out of wickedness and not out of political will... No, no, Mr. Tellado, learn the political acronyms that appear and you will know something else, but you live in your panacea or in your superficial aerial world and, therefore, you don't know anything about what's going on around you. [[Murmurs.]] No, no... [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u92	That's what you say. It's okay. I understand everything, I understand you perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u93	Sure, it's okay. [[Murmurs.]] Well, with respect to the worst, the better – that Mr. Tellado said – the worse, the better; we believe that this is his motto: the worse they do, the better we can camouflage reality, that reality that you are hiding, that you manipulate, and that you logically take advantage of, in a well-interested way, also intelligently, logically, intelligence is knowing how to manipulate, they all know from the time of Mr. Goebbels, manipulation applies a high dose of intelligence to take effect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And you know how to do it very well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u94	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u95	...but what remains of his inheritance will be precarious – not repeated that data because inequality, according to Gini's indexes, has not stopped shooting in Galicia and the state, over these years – has grown between those who have the most and those who have the least. Here are 7,388 people who own 55% of Galician GDP. They live on the island of oligarchy; that's where you rule. Of course, he said: democracy. Mr. Tellado knows very well for whom to rule, for that minority, for that oligarchy, not for that social majority, no, no, because you know very well who sustains power and who sustains the networks of power of which you live, those networks know very well who sustains them. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So this bill, which is not a bill of debate, is not a bill that we can discuss more than today to say that we do not share its procedural forms and we do not, of course, share the arguments. Because – straight – I could read you what appears in the text that says: "Recover in the Budget Act for 2017 the two additional payments of the specific supplement or equivalent pay". That's in the deal, yeah, figure. [[Murmurs.]] Figure not articulated? No, that's unquestionable. Does the articulate figure the recovery of the other rights violated but that you used to advertise them? No, they are not included in this project. So don't come to me talking about what you're doing, which are recovering violated rights, which are giving vacation days, which are favoring employment and family reconciliation. Please see how the demographic index in this country is, how exactly the rural structures are depleting themselves and losing services at fast steps and losing people for that reason. And we don't leave aside the numbers of teachers who are used – sometimes in an uninterested manner – but, of course, there was a loss of teachers in Galicia, the official data spoke of 1,250, keeping us with the official data of the ministry. And that's how it is. And we've also lost employment capacity in the public sector as much as you're now becoming proud of the OPE this year, of the replenishment rate this year. But sum up, add up everything that has been lost in jobs over the years and do a sum and you'll see that we've lost capacity in public services, we've lost quality and, in addition, citizenship has lost the right to access those services because there's been plenty and compensation to access what was a right. And even with the health, let's leave him there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u96	On the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u97	Well, with regard to amendments, as we can't help but support them because they defend the full recovery of the stolen salary to the working class. And from that point of view, he will rely on our support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. I will try not to exercise Tertullian as Mr. Tellado and speak of what he has called us here today, which is the bill about what we are discussing and the various amendments, because indeed Mr. Tellado during his fifteen minutes – each one of us uses his time as he says, of course – told us about Ferrol, of bipartites, of the sex of angels, of the elections, I don't know how many more things, but he's not worthy of talking about the amendments that we tabled by the parliamentary groups. He just devoted a second to saying they were going to vote against because they had no meaning, that's what he said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then I wanted to ask the People's Party the following: Look, first I'd like to clarify some concepts to Mr. Tellado. Look, let's see, the bill you bring here is unique and exclusively about fulfilling a sentence, yes or no? Only and exclusively, and from making it extensive – the same as the cuts were made, by the way – to all the workers and workers of the so-called or so-called Italian public sector. The Galego Nationalist Block presents an amendment to the whole with alternative text in which it literally, literally – to see if they are left – the same thing that sets out its draft law as to what order the Judgment of the Repair of Illegality with the only exception – and, I insist, literally – that we say that the proportional payment of January and February 2013 instead of being paid throughout 2016 – i.e., on the eve of the elections to the German Parliament – is paid with the payroll of the month of August. Mr. Tellado, what's the lack of meaning? [[Murmurs.]] Do you or the Government have any arguments so you can't accept that instead of getting paid throughout 2016, from what's next year, if you can get paid...? Is there any obstacle to economic order, administrative order? Is there any impediment? What's the lack of meaning? That is with regard to Article 1. Article 2 Article 2 of our amendment states that the rest of 2013 is paid in the remainder of the year. Is there any impediment to being able to do it? Is it of an economic or merely political nature that the People's Party only works at the stroke of judicial judgments and is it unable to redress any rights or to recognize any right to anyone if it is not through the imposition of a judicial sentence, in addition, since it is absolutely inapplicable as to the Supreme Court? With regard to Article 3, where is the lack of sense, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in that in a bill, in a legal text, we recognize that public employees are deprived of their salary rights during 2014, 2015 and 2016 and that we are going to go to the Government coming, whatever, forcing them to collect in the budgets for 2017 the resources necessary to pay them? If it's a problem of money I think the president will give us time, or while the next law is being discussed, so that we make a transaction between all the groups; and if it can't be in 2017 and it can be one part in 2017 and another part in the first half of 2018 because we can talk about it the same way. But you come here simply to intoxicate and use Parliament to make your political campaign and not to give political, economic arguments, or to say why you can do or why you can't do things. And with respect to point 4, I'm going to leave here with personality disorder, yes, yes, with personality disorder, so I tell you. [[Murmurs.]] The Government signed an agreement, which is published on the 8th day of the CEO, with the trade union organizations that say that the amounts necessary for public employees to recover the specific supplement in their extraordinary wages will be included in the budgets for 2017 as of January 2017. I swear to them that in all the files you sent here, I've searched many times to try to find in the articulated as if it reflected that and it doesn't exist. So I've searched many times to try to find in the articulated as if it reflected that, and it doesn't exist. So, please, if you don't want to be guilty of my personality disorder, tell me where they're feeling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u100	Please, Mrs. Paz...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u101	...of article 4 proposed by the Galego Nationalist Block, which is to establish a legal obligation that the Government that has to make budgets for 2017 includes this in the budgets of the Galician Union. And finally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u102	About the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u103	... ladies and gentlemen, it is the third or fourth time that we bring to this Parliament other rights of public employees that you also repeatedly use to advertise but never resist. And, finally, I will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the other groups, and I just want to say that the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia does not go against any trade union agreement at all. He simply wants to shield the union agreement and armor, through this bill, which also replaces the other rights that are not yet covered by that agreement. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u104	Let us now debate and vote on the opinion drawn up by the Commission 5a. Debates and votes of the Ditome drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u105	The amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialist Group are maintained. The president of Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, Ms Marta Rodríguez-Vispo, said:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. The Proposal for a Law amending Act 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia, submitted by the People's Group of Galicia, was entered into the Register of Parliament on 19 February 2016, and qualified by the Bureau of Parliament on 22 February. Following its consideration at its plenary meeting on 15 March, the Bureau, at its meeting on 21 March, heard the Speaker's Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint, which ended on 29 April 2016 with the formulation of a total of 46 amendments: 21 of the Joint Group, 8 of the Left Gaga Alternative Group, 7 of the Galician Nationalist Block Group and 10 of the Galician Socialist Group. For its part, the presentation designated at the 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment Commission meeting of 6 May was composed of the following rapporteurs: Ms Marta Rodríguez Arias, of the Galician People's Group; Ms Carmen Gallego Calvar, of the Galician Socialist Group; Ms Carmen Adán Villamarín, of the Galego Nationalist Block Group; Ms Eva Solla Fernández, of G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left; and Mrs. Maria Consuelo Martínez García, of the Mixed Group. It was May 10th and the report was finished on June 13th. Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 17 June, subsequently approved the dictation. This articulated text consists of an exposition of motives, a single article divided into 9 points and its final part, which is integrated by a transitional provision, a normative derogation and two finals. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the ruling of the commission issued on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia, which I have just submitted. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to the people who listen to us from the public, many of them related to these social services. The Joint Group has tabled 21 amendments, none of which have been negotiated and only two accepted – the correction of sexist language is one, and the other is Amendment No. 8 to Article 33 quater, which eliminated the word "private", simply." Obviously, the concept of social services that defend Cerna and the People's Party are very different, but even when speech seems to be approaching, the measures that are proposed to deny such an approach. So even though I know that this bill is a complaint from social service providers, I have to recognize here, as I did in the debate in writing and in committee, that this bill, as drafted, will essentially benefit private entities in a spirit of profit and the Catholic Church. And I also want to express my wish to be wrong again, but rejected amendments do not give way to much hope. To begin with, we maintain Amendment No 2 so that social services related to gender-based violence and protection of minors under the supervision of the Administration are always provided under the formula of direct management, since their proper attention requires multidisciplinary teams that, in my view, only the Public Administration can guarantee. I know that this delegation of functions was already covered by Article 20 of Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of Galician social services, which we are changing today. But precisely because we're changing it is time to correct those aspects that can be improved. According to Cerna, the seriousness, intensity and evolution of gender-based violence in our society demands the direct involvement of the administration, making available the fight against all forms of gender-based violence all the necessary means in the judiciary, social services, police, housing, health and employment. But this direct involvement from the administration also forces it to end institutional violence that allows gender discrimination in the workplace, the sexist use of women's image in advertising and segregating education. We must end the institutional violence that is supposed to justify as a personal act sexual propositions in exchange for a job in the public administration, which cannot be understood by society. But it must also be served directly by the Government of Greece to the guardianship of the children and the children in charge. In its report "Vulnerable minors, deprotection and criminal responsibility", the Valeur of the People is obliged to state – and I say literally – that "it is not discretionary policies, but rather that it constitutes a pious obligation of the social state, remembering that public administrations are obliged by law to prevent those situations that may endanger the life, integrity and personal development of the child, and that one of the guiding principles for the public authorities to act in relation to the protection of children, children and adolescents is the priority of preventing situations that may harm the personal development of these." The recommendations of the People's Valedor indicate measures "which must be developed and managed directly" – says Valador himself – "the Administration: to develop devices that allow early detection of risk situations and de-protection, such as the unified register of child abuse; to enhance basic social services of the municipalities, providing material and human resources from those who lack them, providing professionals with essential basic training; to increase and improve the involvement of educational, health, police and judicial social agents; to create new centres of day, as a dual resource of intensive support to families in crisis that avoids the separation of the minor or minor from their family nucleus; to provide more material and human resources for the technical equipment of minors, the reception teams, adoption teams and traveling psychologists; to adjust the remuneration that must be given to families at the actual cost of the cost of the household; and, lastly," said the Valador – "power family care". No measure from the Valador speaks of politics with minors taking another institution, but it says it must be adopted directly by the Administration. On the other hand, information as sensitive as that contained in the files, of both gender-based and child-based violence, should not be in the hands of the public administration. It also claims this amendment that direct management is the preferred way of providing social services, without preventing its indirect management. All amendments aimed at ensuring equal opportunities between the private-profit initiative and the social-initiative bodies were rejected. Thus, Amendment No 6 was rejected, for example, which introduces as a measure of positive discrimination localization or percentage of staff with disabilities; or Amendment No 10, which states: "The provision of non-free supplementary services may not be taken into account when assessing service concessions" See in the assessment the granting of non-free services only for profit entities, since they share personal and services with private users. They have easier access to credits and less scruples in performing precarious employment contracts to offer payment services that are covered by non-present guards. There are private centers that announce the availability of doctors, nursing staff, even hairdressing, but which then do not exist in the centers, they are simply called in some cases; especially because it is an offer that is made to people who attend as privates and who take advantage of it to put on prayers when the contests come out. That's why I believe that no payment service can be taken into account when providing services; otherwise, social-initiative entities are losing. That's why I distrust this very law, and I really hope I'm wrong. But all the debate in committee and in committee leads me to think that, of course, the least beneficiaries will be the social initiative entities, because they cannot have that capital available to cover, for example, what will then be given to us by the framework agreement. I also consider that the private undertaking and the Catholic Church benefit from this set out in paragraph 2 of the new Article 33 septies, which establishes the possibility of subscribing a single concert with several centres or service services when they are provided by the same entity. I mean, we're directing the law to these large Geriatric companies, like Eulen, which have multiple services, which have multiple centres in the territory and which, therefore, can act within a framework agreement and no longer have to be presented to more competitions and tenders, it's a direct adjudication. No social initiative entity will be able to compete with the ability to provide high social services delivery centres such as private, profit-oriented entities. For the same reason, I maintain Amendment 19, which states that the framework agreements will need to count for their approval with the agreement of most non-profit entities providing social services. Rejecting this amendment indicates the willingness of the People's Party to approve agreements with the opposition of most social-initiative entities, which only increases the mistrust of the real purpose of this law. We also maintain Amendment 14 to the new article 33 sexies to establish the maximum vigil of concerts. There's no maximum vigil for social concerts, and there has to be a maximum vigil, at some point you'll have to check them out. We have established a maximum vigil of four years, given the multi-year nature contained in the law, and the establishment also by the Greek Administration of a catalogue of social services likely to be provided under the social concert modality. There should be a catalogue of which are possible to give them through this modality. So it should be public a price per square with a minimum ratio of staff, because that would equal the offers made by the companies that present themselves, the entities that present themselves. If not, we're playing with those who are most precarious jobs will be the ones who win the competitions and, therefore, we're still against social-initiative entities. We also maintain Amendments Nos 16 and 19, which set out the obligation to carry out periodic inspections to ensure the quality of the service. However, the report "Vulnerable Minors" of the People's Valedor includes, among its recommendations, the need to comply with the provisions of article 21.3 of the Organic Law on the Judiciary of the Child, which establishes the obligation of the competent public authority in matters of the protection of minors to carry out the inspection and supervision of centres and services semi-annually, and where circumstances so require. I mean, there's a Valador's recommendation that we have to do the inspections in the centers, there's a law, the Organic Law on Juvenile Legal Protection, which says we have to inspect the centers. And he comes to Galicia and says, "No, we refuse to accept any amendment that tells us we have to inspect the centers. We also maintain, in conclusion, amendments related to gender equality and labour rights, the right to the subrogation of workers and workers. We cannot accept the transaction agreed with the Socialist Party, because it proposes textually: "Where, by application of labour law, benefits are subject to the subrogation of workers and workers, they will be collected expressly in the prayers or documents regulating the bidding". I mean, nothing. It remits the right to a subrogation to which they already have the right recognized in a collective reference agreement or in a rule applicable to them. So what we're doing is we're putting ourselves in the hands of collective bargaining, in the hands of bargaining between employers and trade unions, the right to subrogation when the Board has taken a word in this House that the subrogation of workers and workers would be shaped by law in all contracts that the administration itself had made. We also maintain Amendment No 5, which introduces among the criteria for the formalization of concerts compliance with labour law. I don't know why you don't want to put companies that hire the Administration have to comply with labour law. Why do they allow and support companies to violate labour law? I suppose it's because the board doesn't do it, too. We just had a bill about this now, didn't we? Introduction of the gender perspective, they don't want to value it either. The implementation of equality plans in companies, nor do they want to value it. And not even that great campaign that takes this year to the elections, to advance in the family and labor conciliation, nor to accept it as an amendment that is worth within the contests. Nor do measures against gender-based violence in the workplace, nor do they value it. We have already maintained Amendment No 9, which obliges the private entity which agrees to provide services, in addition to the conditions laid down in sectoral legislation, also in the conditions laid down in labour law and in the applicable collective agreement. So, and since this bill comes from a request from social initiative entities, but I have very serious doubts about its development and its real objective, we will not vote against it in respect of social initiative entities, nor can we vote in favour because we believe that it will not benefit social initiative entities precisely, but private and profit-oriented entities. So let us abstain in your vote. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u110	Thank you, President. We shall repeat a speech or debate similar to that held in Commission 5a. First of all, I would like to thank the debate that was held during the presentation. Alternative Left Galician, like other opposition groups, incorporated some of the recommendations of social entities, Cermi and EAPN specifically, which were also transferred to other groups, and in this sense some of the amendments were accepted and negotiated by the presentation. However, I am obviously no longer going to focus on the debate of these amendments which are already accepted or negotiated, but on which they have not been accepted, which, in our content, were the most important and which, of course, we have kept alive both for the commission and now for this plenary. And they were either those who were dedicated to preserving the prevalence, preference, of direct management of the public service. We understand, for our part, the interest of social entities in the adoption of this rule by the introduction of the social contract as a new contractual modality in which they may prevail precisely on profit-oriented entities, on the private undertaking, which will depend on the characteristics of the contract itself, on the conditions set out at that time, since the legal text we have on the table is not excluded from that social contract either. It must be remembered that, if a priori seems to be good, social entities will not necessarily benefit if there is no will of those who have to put in place that social contract or concert with the entities. This group obviously considers it more positive whether it is social entities or non-profit entities that manage social services before private companies with a profit - we have defended it on some occasion. And in many cases these entities are responsible for essential services which, unfortunately, should assume the administration itself, but in the face of emptiness, in many cases they have been generated by these entities, working precisely to provide services, quality services that did not exist. However, this parliamentary group also considers that the preferred form for the proportion of people's rights, health rights, education, health and also social services should be direct management, that is, public services; it's practically the DNA of this parliamentary group and what we defend in all matters. So we understand that their preference, that the preference of public service, is not reflected in this legal text, and they worry a lot. That is why we have kept alive precisely the amendments to this matter which were not accepted or negotiated during the debate. Since the commission we had hoped to be able to reach some agreement, but finally there was no transaction offer; in fact, in some – I will now make reference – we expected that, in fact, as if transferred to us, there was a transaction proposal. We therefore maintain Amendment No 1 to the Gaga de Left Alternative, paragraph 1, which amends Article 29 and which requires social services to be provided directly by public administrations, and which only resorts to indirect management when there is no such public service created or there is an impossibility for economic or administrative reasons to generate that public service. I mean, it's pretty much lax even the amendment because it's framed in the context that some administration might have problems generating that public service. What we wanted was that, firstly, there was preference for public service, direct management, and, secondly, it was management through social entities, and from there in graduation to the private company in a spirit of profit, that we understand that social services should not be taken care of. So, it was about primaryizing positive discrimination towards the public service. That amendment was not accepted, there was no compromise proposal, despite the fact that since its own motion it has been admitted that the meaning of the amendment itself was understood. We wanted exceptionality to be outsourcing, not vice versa. The same thing happens with Amendment No. 6, in which the People's Party's transaction offer removed a key aspect of the amendment itself, which is the phrase that says it will be subject to a concert review having a direct public service for covered provision. We have no problem – I repeat – that, in case management is indirect, it is better for a social entity than a private business in a profit spirit, obviously, but we understand that what has to be prime is public service. With this legal text, of course, it is not guaranteed that this will be so. And we're also concerned about the way free choice is established. We also discussed it during the presentation, and it is true that, in this case, we were told that there was a possibility that a transaction proposal would be moved, but at last we observed that it was not so; and therefore we kept the amendment to Article 33 octies. We explained in committee that, despite the differences that obviously exist with the management and provision of health services, we were concerned about something similar – saving differences – what happened when free competition was established through free choice between public and private health services. In the case of social services, it is true that there may be a benefit for some certain individuals, users and users, and we put as an example the conflict concerning the users who went to the centre of San Francisco, in the case of Vigo, who, because of the People's Party rule, had to go to a private center with a profit, when it was established, once the contest went out again, and we understood that in some specific case that free choice could benefit certain users and users. The problem is that there is no defined framework that limits competition, not even between public services and the rest of indirect management, but not even for social entities. Because in that free choice set out in Article 33 it is not defined that social entities do not have to compete with profit-oriented entities, with private companies for profit-oriented purposes. And there we understood that the possibility of a change that would ensure that this free choice, we no longer speak of it to the detriment of the public service, which we understand to be yes, but it may also be to the detriment of the social entities themselves if it is not defined that they are not going to compete with a private company. In other words, users and users, in fact, as this text is collected, could choose the private company and not the social entity and, therefore, this is a problem when, of course, they take over that supposed "interest" which seems to have the law – and that we put together – that it is not the private company to which, in fact, they finally take over these social services. So we keep these amendments alive because we believe that there is no positive discrimination within the legal text that prioritizes public services if they already exist or if they can be created. And, therefore, we understand that – I repeat and finish already – every time, obviously, this group prefers to be a social entity rather than a profit-oriented private company, the public service must always be prioritized. So, if there is no other possibility of a transaction, of course, we are going to abstain, pending the intervention now of the spokesperson also of the People's Party, because we have the doubt that how this law will be applied, of which it will be used and whether of course it will not be to the detriment of the public services and the quality which this group defends. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the BNG Group, Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon also to the people representing the entities that accompany us today among the public. And also thank you for the contributions that have brought us to this bill, part of which this parliamentary group has gathered in the amendments tabled and which, as I shall explain below, many of them have been dealt with or have been admitted to the trial and commission itself. We are debating a law that is an amendment to the Social Services Act that came to this House in 2008 and was adopted at the meeting on 25 November 2008. A law that, in fact, sought to improve Galician social services, to remove its assistance character and to give it a character of universality, of innovation in management, of planning, of participation, of quality, of financial co-responsibility with other administrations as well – understand the councils – and a public guarantee; a guarantee that social services tended to the public, recognizing that the very history of how the social services have been developed and the shortcomings they have brought have made there is such an important reality that the associations, the social initiative entities, for years, for decades, have taken care of these social services, and of course what we have to thank them for all that service they have provided. In fact, in the law itself, it was recognized, and so, by reviewing the debates that took place both on 30 September 2008 and on 25 November with regard to the consideration and after the final procedure of that law, it was collected that the very rule that we now amend regulates, regulates today and will also do so later, the participation of that social initiative and private entities in the management of social services, always from a point of view of complementarity with the public service offer. At that time, the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, and also the Government, which at that time was responsible for drafting the law with the contributions of the entities, created in that spirit, and we today also continue to defend that need for it to be understood from complementarity, never from the scope of substitution. In that sense, we made seven amendments; an important part of them – that is, six – were traded or taken into consideration, which we recognize as an effort to work on the presentation process. And I also want to congratulate the ladies on the work we've done, the effort and the many meetings we've put together to improve as far as possible this text. But I would like to justify our vote at this time with regard to the law in Amendment No 1, the first amendment we tabled to Article 29, which is an amendment in which we believe that in addition to the introduction of the social concert – which we consider necessary, important and, of course, a step forward – should be introduced as should be direct management – and I quote our amendment –: "...direct management, which will have precedence over other modalities". We just pick up that point. I think it's a very... very important question, let's say colloquially, light, because it just picks up that preference of direct management, which prioritizes nothing more than contextually in the field of law. And so we would agree with the rest of the transaction made by the People's Party with the Socialist Party at this particular point. That's why we keep this amendment number one alive. What we really keep alive is this phrase "which will have precedence over other modalities" because it seems to us important that it be collected in the field of law, in the field of the Social Services Act, in the amendment that is now proposed to us. We fully agree with the other paragraphs on what has been collected from the field of work, what has been collected from the contributions that have been made to us by the entities and that we reiterate that we thank you again, but we do consider it necessary – it is a debate that we have had on many occasions and it is good for the honourable Members to know it, but also the people who accompany us from the rostrum and also the advisor who is present in this debate – who is marked and fixed this preference for the public in the field of social services. That's why we, in case we had accepted this amendment which is still alive, this part of an amendment, because in a section we would actually vote in favour... if it wasn't the case, we certainly wouldn't want to interfere with that amendment of the law, we just abstained. This is the position we have held in committee, which we have brought to the full and which we have now left open pending the debate on the part of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u113	By the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego Calvar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor and members of the organizations representing the entities of the third sector of social initiative, thank you very much for accompanying us today this afternoon in this debate and many thanks, in addition, for giving us all the political groups that we are represented in this Parliament the contribution, without which it would be impossible to adopt this bill today. I also want to transfer you from the Socialist Parliamentary Group to congratulations to Anxo Queiruga, because that new responsibility at the state level that you have just acquired, I believe it represents and honors you all and all of you who are part of Cermi Galego. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled ten amendments to this proposal for a People's Parliamentary Group bill, ten amendments which, as I say, partly relate to the contributions that have been made since the entities representing Cermi, some of them also since the Galician Network against Poverty, EAPN, and others since the Galician Association against Juvenile Abuse, Agamme. These three entities were the ones that transferred us to the Socialist Group at least their opinion on this bill and made those amendments that we tabled to the text, submitted by the People's Group, right in their contributions. Of these ten amendments presented by the Socialist Group were negotiated or approved in the presentation and in the committee eight of them, with which two were left alive for this plenary. The two amendments that still persist today, and that I hope that in this last debate the spokesperson of the People's Group can still accept us to be the full satisfaction of the Socialist Group for this bill, have to do with Amendment No 8, in which we understand that, as the current text is drafted, with the transactions made with the Group of the BNG and with the Group of AGE, we only refer to the extension of concerts to the entry into force of this law and, therefore, we believe that another type of legal figures of public administration contracts are out of this statement; we believe that it should also be included "or contracts" at least. And the other one is point 5 of Amendment No 5, which is a demand of the Cermi set that has to do with the IVE. As we all know and all who are here, non-profit social initiative entities are exempt from VAT; therefore, in the face of a public procurement competition by the Public Service, when the price of the service awarded for the tender is established without the added VAT, these entities are in inferior conditions with respect to private business initiative entities, of purely commercial initiative. And what we are asking for in this amendment to the Socialist Group is that the public price that is drawn from the Public Service is the final price of the benefit, VAT added, and so the entities would be on equal terms with those of a commercial initiative. In any case, whatever the fate of these two amendments that keep the Socialist Group alive in the face of this bill of the People's Parliamentary Group, we shall vote in favour of their final approval, for a very simple reason: for this law is neither original of the People's Parliamentary Group nor original of the Government of Mr Feijóo. And the counsellor who is present here will give me the reason, if you will, when I say what I shall say next. This law of the People's Parliamentary Group was born after the Socialist Group had tabled a bill last year to regulate the social concert in Galicia, just as it already regulates the social concert in other autonomous communities of our different political environment, for example, Asturias, Murcia, Balearics or other autonomous communities – I believe Aragon also had it. When we presented that bill – since the PP rejected its consideration and therefore we could no longer enter into discussion on the substance of the matter – the arguments given by the People's Group for its refusal were very vague, very inaccurate, because it was actually a political decision of that Labour and Wellness adviser that he did not want to accept that a proposal for the law of the social concert had been presented by the Socialist Group, because in reality that bill came to improve the Law 13/2008, of Galician social services, and he came to respond to the claim that the Cermi was having at the state level, and also the Cermi galigo. But as the new social policy adviser, when he came to office, he realized that, indeed, his political group, the group that supports the Government, had been wrong in that matter, because they brought this bill by this method, because if the Government is going to process a bill today, we would not be debating its final resolution here. This is the truth. It can be disguised in many ways, but the reality is that we are currently debating, adopting, this proposal for a People's Group law regulating the social concert in Galicia, because the Socialist Group first brought an initiative here, and the People's Group at that time, in view of that initiative, was not able to grant an opposition group an initiative that was good for the whole of the third sector of social action. When we brought that initiative, like this one, what we wanted was to curb an absolute privatization trend in the area of social services by the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because it is true that Galician Social Services Act 13/2008, which is well understood, well applied and with political will, could supply the shortcomings that it could have with respect to that standard and could perfectly prioritize that social initiative entities without a profit-free motive would lead to most of the contests, concerts or public contracts for the provision of social services, because it already exists in the articulate of that law matter to make that priority or that prize, let us say, to the social initiative entities against commercially-based entities. But the drift from the Feijóo government was different, and the truth is that in recent years a number of very well-known companies all by third sector entities have been taking most of the cake, and these companies are – and I say it again – Eulen, Troncoso, Fesan, Geriatrics and Doral Residential. Five of them were taking the whole pastel, let's say, of social services in our Autonomous Community. When this took scandalous tenets with the case – and here's the President of Fademga – of San Francisco, in Vigo, when Doral Residencial wanted to stay with staff and with the services that San Francisco provided in Vigo, because it was when the Government began to react and began to see that he was having a problem with the management of social services. That's why we are here today discussing this People's Group bill. I want to say that the Socialist Group is in favour of social services being public and universal, as well as health and education. For us they are a right, a right of citizenship, and therefore the commercialization and privatization of social services we will never accept it. [[Applause]] Another thing is that we understand that certain services or facilities are not fully available in our country, that the social infrastructure map – let's say so – in the whole of the Greek territory is not complete today and that, therefore, while public administrations do not complete this social infrastructure map, the concert can be established for social initiative entities, for non-profit entities, against commercial entities. And that is the milkmotive of the Socialist Group both to present that bill and to give the vote in favour of the one we are debating today. On the amendments that we have kept alive, I've spoken before, and I also want to say what enriches the amendments that the People's Group and the other groups make and agree with the Socialist Group on the law, as it came out of the ranks of the People's Group. Thanks to the amendments of the Socialist Group, for example, Amendment No. 2 makes it clear that the concerts will be for social initiative entities, because this forecast was not collected in the original text, and that in child care specific training will be given priority in the selection of staff. It's not the same as professionals in psychology, psychiatry or medicine are specialized, for example, in child abuse, and it's those who provide services in the event of male violence – which is also practised or harmful to minors – that these professionals are not specialized in minors. It is not the same and therefore for us and also for the Galician Association against Child Abuse it was important that the law should be specified that specific training on minors will be given priority. Amendment No. 3 of the Socialist Group incorporates that are included within the scope of the application of this law and the social concert all the collectives beyond the Act 13/2008, of social services, also the collectives of the Galician Social Inclusion Act and in general all people in a situation of vulnerability, whatever the reason for that situation of vulnerability. Amendment No 6, which has also been negotiated or agreed, states that the renewal or termination of concerts includes the subrogation of workers and workers; a request from trade union centres and also from third sector entities that are very important to all collectives. And Amendment No. 10 sets out something that is fundamental when a legal text is to be passed, which is a deadline for its development, because the text presented to us by the People's Group did not set any deadlines for the regulatory development of this law, and we could therefore be in front of a non-application of it, as is the case with the Act of Social Inclusion, which is also true that, although it set a period of six months, two and a half years later it goes on without development, counsellor. We therefore believe that the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group and that, I insist, many of them are fruit of the agreement and work of the third sector entities, both of Cermi and of Agamme, and of the Galaga Network against Poverty, enrich the original text presented by the People's Parliamentary Group. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this bill, because we don't care who is the author of the bill, what we do care about is to be useful to the citizenry and, in this case, to be useful to the social initiative entities of the third sector and to the entities that ultimately represent people in our country with some kind of risk of vulnerability. We therefore support this initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group in this case by giving priority to that interest and not to the support of the Socialist Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u115	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank all the representatives and social entities you are here with all of us today for your work, thank you for your contributions, thank you for the hours you have dedicated to us and, above all, thank you for all your work, because without you I am sure that today this Parliament would not be closing and discussing such an important text as this. Thanks a lot to the social media. [[Applause]] I would also like to thank the Councillor for his support for the parliamentary group during this debate and drafting process of this bill and also for thanking all parliamentary groups for their contributions in order to improve the text that has been presented. The purpose of this bill is very clear, is to address a partial amendment to Galicia's Social Services Act. And for what? First of all, to introduce a new model of social services management, the social concert. Secondly, to strengthen the role of social initiative entities. And thirdly, to guarantee essential rights to users. Having made this quite clear, of course, it is clear that the text which is to be put to the vote today is going to be put to the vote. A dialogue process was opened, firstly, with social entities because it was essential to modify such an important law as the Social Services Act to open a process of dialogue with social entities, because we had to achieve a framework that was consistent with all guarantees. So first of all, it was necessary to open this process of dialogue; and secondly, it was essential to open a process of dialogue between all parliamentary groups in this House. Our group made it clear from the very first moment that this document was an open document and that we were dumped in trying to reach consensus with all groups so that this text would go forward with the greatest possible support. The parliamentary groups presented a total of 46 amendments to this text and there was a result of this process of dialogue with the opposition groups. During the presentations, the Popular Parliamentary Group did not reject any of the amendments tabled by either the Socialist Group or the Group of the BNG or the AGE Group. A hundred percent of the amendments were either accepted or proposed to be negotiated. Finally, an agreement was reached in 83% of the amendments tabled by these parliamentary groups; in particular, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group tabled 10 amendments, 3 were accepted as a whole and the other 6 were offered a compromise proposal; the BNG Parliamentary Group accepted 4 amendments and 3 proposed transactions were offered; and the AGE Parliamentary Group accepted 2 amendments and 6 proposed transactions were offered. That is why sometimes I'm a little surprised because, well, if all this effort has served to achieve the abstention of the Galician Nationalist and AGE bloc, I welcome the dialogue and welcome the effort we have made by all the Members in that process, at those briefings. In the event that apart from the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, I say this to the other party because it interprets that the object of this law is to favour the Catholic Church and private entities. You will understand that, having this argument, it is very difficult to reach agreement and accept certain amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group, because I really tried to explain to the spokesman of the Joint Group that this amendment consisted of, but the truth is that it was very complicated because they repeat over and over again that they believe that this law will favour the Catholic Church and the private company, when what is intended is quite the opposite, and now we will see it. Even so, we accepted 2 amendments from the Joint Group and offered 4 compromise proposals based on contributions from social entities, and were rejected. Of course, on our part, there was a strong desire to reach agreement. And what we're talking about now is a new model of social services management, but we're not making a new Galician Social Services Act – which seems to be confusing – we're doing a timely reform of the law that is in force to introduce and regulate the social concert. Because at this moment the Social Services Act is a law that is in force; by the way, it is not a People's Party law, which seems to have been drafted and put into effect by the People's Party. There is a social services law that establishes two clear formulas for managing social services, which is through direct management and through indirect management through various procurement modalities established in the regulation of public sector contracts. So here are two Members – who were in Parliament or the Government of Galicia – who participated in the drafting, adoption and implementation of that law. At no time, when this law was passed, it was said that priority and preference was direct management against indirect management. But what we are going to do with this reform is overcome the limitations that this current regulation has for the provision of social services by social entities and regulate the social concert as a new model of management. And what limitations do you have on current regulations? For us, it is very clear that in order to regulate the collaboration of entities in the provision of social services at this time with the law in force, public administrations had to always refer to the Public Sector Contracts Act. So when you talk here about privatization of the government Feijóo or you don't know what the Social Services Act currently consists of... but yes, Mr. Losada, it's incredible that a parliamentary group that participated in the drafting and approval comes to say that we must now prioritize direct management, when there is a law now in force. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And what's the news? For the novelty is that there is a European Public Procurement Directive of 2014 which establishes that member states and public authorities have freedom to organise social services so that it is not necessary to enter into public contracts. This European directive therefore opens the door to a new model of management with social entities, which is the social concert. But one question must be guaranteed: sufficient publicity and compliance with the principles of transparency and non-discrimination. And many of the amendments that this group rejected from the opposition groups do not respect the European directive when it speaks of ensuring sufficient publicity and conforming to the principles of transparency and non-discrimination. The social concert scheme is a new alternative for the management of social services, an alternative that is adapted to European guidelines; a differentiated modality given the general concert regulated in public sector procurement regulations, because in many amendments to opposition groups this did not make this differentiation. There are other communities – such as the Basque Country, Balearics, Asturias and Murcia – that have legally established the social concert as a new way to improve the management of social services. And now in Galicia we are going to do the same, respecting that European directive and also respecting what has been regulated in other autonomous communities. And there's a very clear principle, which is the priority for non-profits. In order to establish concerts, public administrations will give priority to non-profit entities. How? By applying preferential measures, measures of positive discrimination, social criteria, quality, experience and accredited trajectory. That is the case, provided that free competition and the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination and transparency are guaranteed. And that's what reflects the text we are discussing today. It also guarantees the stability of social institutions in the provision of social services when we regulate the social concert. Social concerts will have to be established on a multiannual basis in order to ensure stability in their supply, and they can be renewed. Social concerts will also set out formulas to ensure continuity in the provision of services by entities providing services. For us these two issues are fundamental to promoting the continuity of social entities working in this sector and having credible experience in the provision of these social services. A series of rights to users is also recognized for the first time. In establishing social concerts, the following principles will be followed: the right to free choice for users – something fundamental – to the right to the root of the person to their social environment and continuity in attention and the right to personal and integral attention. In addition to social concerts, the Galician Union may also sign framework agreements with entities for the provision of certain social services for a specific period of time. The framework agreement is not a new figure, the framework agreement is a contractual figure already provided for in the rules of public sector contracts. And in particular, it says that the public sector will promote the conclusion of the framework agreements with a view to giving priority to the free choice of the person to whom the service is intended. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, representatives of social institutions, this is a partial amendment to the Galician Social Services Act to introduce and regulate the social concert as a new model for the management of social services in Galicia, which reinforces the role of social entities, which guarantees essential rights to users, which exceeds the limitations of current legislation – and this is done after a process of dialogue with social entities, after a process of dialogue with all parliamentary groups – and which is supported by a European directive – European Public Procurement Directive – which provides that public authorities have freedom to organize these social services without access to such public contracts. We therefore do not understand that this partial amendment which is being debated today in this Parliament is to benefit both private companies and private-initiative entities, because you clearly know that with the current law in force in the Galician Union, you had no choice but to regulate your relations with social entities, to apply to that regulation of the Public Administration Contracts Act. And you know that with this reform, what the Public Service now has is a legal tool to be able to work with social initiative entities in the provision of public services, to improve the provision of public services to people and to guarantee rights that are not guaranteed until now. And, of course, we have to be consistent because when it is said that this proposal which the People's Party is presenting is the private entities, I would like that on the side of the Socialist Group, which today comes to claim that some amendments – which was also a long negotiation process in that paper – are reviewed by you. We consider this text to be much better. Indeed, it is not a text either of the People's Party or of the Socialist Party, it is a text of the Galician Parliament, thanks to the contributions of social entities. But, look, you were talking about the social concert, you were talking about indirect management, you were talking about private initiative entities. You at no time spoke of preference for direct management or preference for social initiative entities. We therefore consider that, after this process of dialogue with social entities that we deeply appreciate their work, and after the dialogue with parliamentary groups, this is a text that is well worth it. Most of all well it is worthwhile for people who will at some point need social services, because from now on they have more options and will have better quality in providing their services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on amendments. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u118	Thank you, President. With regard to the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, I must admit that if there was a work done in important presentations, that there were attempts at transactions by the People's Group, but it was not possible, because the rejected amendments were really, in silence, those that were really important within the amendment of the law, so it was not possible. The opposition agrees that we continue to have doubts about the development of this law and about who will benefit this law as to the entities, since that priority that said the spokesperson of the People's Party that is established for non-profit entities speaks on equal terms. If we are already aware that payment services will be calculated, for example, we are faced with discrimination, and if we add to it the Socialist Party's amendment on VAT, we are faced with another discrimination; two measures that are going against non-profit entities. Just like the subrogation of workers, since we know that the private company has no problem with doing an ERE, and yet non-profit entities do have a greater commitment to both the people they care for, the families, as well as to the workers themselves. That's why they were measures they were trying, because the People's Party does not accept a priority otherwise, or prioritize direct management, as the opposition requested, or clearly establish that they will start at least on the same level. What you can't say is that there's equality after evaluations are unequal, because we start out that non-profit entities will always be harmed in that calculation. And we also support the amendments tabled by AGE. It seems very important to us that choice of centre without any kind of question, which can lead, precisely because of the manipulation we know of profit-oriented entities, to which many people opt for those entities at the expense of public or non-profit-making institutions. So we're still keeping all the amendments we kept. We believe that precisely the European directive gives freedom to organize social services according to the interests of the territories themselves. And we understand that this law – and I say that we are not going to vote against it – is an initiative that is part of the entities themselves, but we cannot vote in favour. I can't vote in favour of a law I really look at, many points that are questionable at least and that question that interest in benefiting non-profit entities. It's really a law for me that's going to be used precisely to jeopardise social services by private entities, and we have great experience in all the privatization that has been done. The first five companies were named, the five companies that do the big business of dependency. I'm worried about myself because I'm going to be a social service user, I'm clear; sooner or later I'm going to end up at some center where I have to attend. So I want them to be of the best quality. That's why I'm worried, and not just about me, but about the whole population, but I'm aware that I'm going to be touched. So I regret that the People's Party is not able to accept these other amendments which at least equaled non-profit entities in the game to profit-oriented private companies, and I think that this law unfortunately will lead to worse conditions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u120	Thank you, President. Briefly, because I don't think there's any new proposal. We, as I have already moved, were in agreement with that introduction of the social contract and with those improvements that were made to the extent that, of course, there were amendments to the Left Galicia Alternative that were accepted and negotiated. They transferred the contents of some of the amendments from the PSdEG. Ours are practically the same, they are the same, because we assume the contributions that the collectives have made to us. I understand that, in addition, it's the people who work daily in this field, and obviously there's nothing to say. But it's not true that an effort was made on the aspects that had to do with the prevalence of public services. I am still waiting – and I say with all sincerity – for something about free choice – article 33 octies – and, I repeat, during the presentation this group expressed the discrepancy that this free choice could serve to discriminate negatively against public services; we were assured that this would not be so, but there was nothing left in writing. The problem was that it wasn't even written that there was no discrimination for private entities – deprived of the spirit of profit, I mean – so that's more worrying when, from the presentation itself and from the People's Party itself, if we want to move here that we try to strengthen the role of social entities. Now, then, put it in writing, put it in writing that it will not affect that free choice. Not even in that respect there was a coincidence. I'm sorry to move you that, indeed, if you have made some compromise proposals that have not been accepted, but why have you not been accepted? Because they eliminated precisely the positive discrimination towards public services which this parliamentary group always defends and will always defend, and which it has in writing. We, I say, don't have any problems; it's more, of course, we prefer that, if there's indirect management, it's for a non-profit entity rather than for a private company; that's out of the debate. But there was no effort here to ensure, precisely, that public services prevailed. It seems terrible to me that the argument not to debate any of this is that at no time when the law was drafted was said to prevail public services. All right, so let's do it now. What's the impediment, if it wasn't done at the time, to do it now? It's incomprehensible. There really is no argument not to contemplate that "positive discrimination" – between quotes –. That is, the text – and I read the transaction –, as it is written, says: "Social services will deliver to us the public administrations of Galicia through different forms: (a) Direct management. (b) indirect management within the framework of the Public Sector Contract Regulatory Regulation. (c)Measuring the social concert scheme provided for in the law. (d)Measuring non-profit agreements" Well, there is no "graduation" – between quotes – that will make the public service prevail and that, in case there are economic resources and administrative capacity to create a public service where there is no public service, be obliged. That is to say, finally, it seems that the least important thing is to ensure public and quality services. We're gonna defend it before everything else. And obviously, secondly, with social entities, with non-profit entities, there's no problem there, but we understand that there was no effort at all to reach any agreement on this matter. From that, of course, our abstention, because, without having any problem in which, obviously, there is positive discrimination in the case of indirect management, we do not understand why the only argument – which is not such – to say that nothing that prevails cannot be put down is that it was not done when the initial law was passed, the law of 2008. Hey, what's stopping us from doing this now? I honestly don't find the argument anywhere. We keep the amendments. We understand that above all Amendment No 1 of the BNG goes in the same direction, and the others we understand are acceptable. We're in favour, we're going to vote in favour, and obviously, if this ends up like this, we're going to abstain, because we understand that the role of this group is mainly to work for public services and quality services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u122	Thank you, President. We considered that we were clear in the previous exhibition, and brief too. It is clear that we are committed to this amendment, because it is true that the social concert is regulated for social initiative entities, which is thus collected and so we also express it to the entities themselves. And I also thank you again for this work and for the collaboration of the entities with the parliamentary groups, in particular with this parliamentary group. I was very clear and very brief, but I think that, as it is of great importance to the amendment of this law, the amendment keeps it alive. I wasn't attentive to the popular party's exposure, but it didn't stand up for it; I mean, I didn't hear it. It will simply be claimed that direct management will have precedence over other modalities, because, in fact, we understand that the other modalities, those based on the social initiative, are essentially complementary, at no time they must replace direct management. We know the history of social services, the importance, the work and the dedication of social initiative entities. That's why it's just recognition through the social concert. They have already explained to me the comrades who preceded me earlier in speaking what happened and so many times debated in this Parliament during this legislation about the centre of San Francisco, where there is competition from private companies. We do not question the contributions or the text at any time, and thus we make it clear in the presentation process and also in the committee itself. But today, in this last process, the People's Party – and I understand that also the Government, who is present here in this debate – should try to make that bet by introducing an important bet on public services. The honourable Member of the People's Party actually speaks of the fact that when this law was designed, it is not taken up in that sense, when the spirit of the law clearly collected that bet by public services. In fact, by reviewing parliamentary debates, I also read – I do not hear, but I do read – Mrs. Rodríguez Arias’ words when she said and closed the debate of the law by saying that we must guarantee universal subjective rights for all the Greeks and enforceable to the courts, not subject – she said – to the budgetary provisions and political will of the government of the moment, financed sufficiently and adequately. Of course, indeed, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, and I must remind you of your memory of this law. I think it was a very important step forward. And today we introduce the social concert, indeed, knows it counts, of course, with our support, but not as it is collected. That's why we ask you to take a final effort, to meditate on it in the remaining minutes and to introduce that aspect of having direct management over other modalities, because it would be an important step forward at this point in changing the law. Which has nothing to do with the social concert, which both the entities and the other groups, the Government and yourself, know that we do recognize. That's why we ask him to value it. In any case, if we were not to be accepted by the People's Party, we would have to maintain our abstention, which is certainly not abstention from the social concert, but from such an important aspect of direct management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You are welcome, Mrs Rodríguez Arias, for the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for this initiative of its group. As I do not like to miss the truth in Parliament's rostrum, I bring with me two sheets of the Law 13/2008, of social services of Galicia, articles 29, 30 and 31, and even 32 and 33, in which not with the degree of precision of what we are going to approve today, not – I insist – with the degree of precision of what we are going to approve today, but with the sufficient generosity of the Government's political interpretation and will of turn, it could be perfectly possible, during these years, from 2009 to the date, to have contracted the services with the entities of the third sector of social initiative and without a spirit of profit and not prioritising the other entities. For example, in Article 30 of the Social Initiative, where the promotion of the social initiative is concerned; or in Article 31, where it is said that, for reasons of duly justified public interest, there is a possibility to subscribe to specific agreements with social initiative entities; or in Article 33, for the promotion of social interest provision in public procurement, that preference may be given to the award of tenders to be awarded by public or private undertakings that, at the time of crediting their solvency, have a number of workers with disabilities, or that the requirements for clauses governing recruitment may give preference to the award of proposals submitted by undertakings dedicated to promotion and inclusion of work, or that preference may be established for the award of contracts relating to the provision of social or assistance for proposals submitted by non-profit entities with their own legal personality. That is to say, we have a wide range of possibilities in which we could have supported, if there was political will on the part of Mr Feijóo's government, the recruitment of these services to social and non-profit institutions. They have served to justify the Community directive. Then, when that Community directive has been replaced by another directive which makes it easier for Member States to allow these services to be recruited through other instruments, such as social concert, and that is why we are here today, she likes to hear it or doesn't like to hear it, Mrs Rodríguez Arias. The Socialist Group, responsibly, will vote in favour of this bill that has presented its group, for consistency, because first we also present it. By the way, they didn't like ours. To displease them, they practically copied the entire text. In addition, the third sector entities present today in the debate, in this final debate of the social concert, are fully aware of the text presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on its day. Because he was handed over to all of them and to all of them. And you, besides, if you didn't like that text, you had it very easy, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, just as we did in the consideration of yours: voting in favour of taking into consideration and modifying it later in the amendment process. They were in their day excused not to accept that an opposition group, in this case the Socialist Group, would present this initiative. Now, it's over, it doesn't matter, we're here today, and we're going to have the figure of the regulated social concert. But allow me to demand from the Socialist Group the work done by this group, because it's also a work that the third sector entities have recognized. At least I have that opportunity to claim that job. I'm sure if it wasn't for that and for Cermi's push, we wouldn't be here today approving this social concert. But I bless everyone and all, and the whole of the House, because we have been able to put the interests of third sector entities above the interests of supporters, and today the social concert will come out of here. Third sector entities know who they're thanks to. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u125	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, I think in my speech I began by thanking the work of social entities, thanking the work of parliamentary groups and thanking the support of the social policy advisor. So... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u127	Quiet. They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u128	So, look, we're going to stop sterile discussions. What matters right now is the text we're going to get forward, what matters right now is to improve the provision of social services. Look, I'm no one to recommend to you or to review the 2008 Social Services Act or to review your proposal, because you are a responsible Member and I know you will. But, look, in Galicia's Social Services Act, the current one, you're talking about Article 30, the promotion of social initiative, and Article 33, the promotion of social initiative in public procurement, and that through these formulas collaboration with social entities could be prioritized. You'll read the Social Services Act again. Because, look, uniquely and exclusively through the Public Administration Contracts Act, social entities could be taken into account on an equal basis of conditions to proposals submitted by private entities, Mrs Gallego, please! You read the Social Services Act well. What we're doing right now is taking one more step, it's a very important step, which had many limitations on this regulation to be able to work with social entities, and you know it. Outside the framework of the Public Administration Contracts Act it was impossible, impossible, for a social entity to cooperate with the Galician Union in the provision of social services. It was impossible! And now you don't understand what free choice means? We've been talking for hours and days about the problem that happened at San Francisco Center. The free choice of users means that they decide, they decide, the center they want to attend. And the Galician Union cannot force them to attend the particular center, because it is the user you choose. And on this subject, in the case of San Francisco, with this reform, what we do is solve problems like those that arose at that time. It is the user who can decide whether you want to attend the San Francisco Center or whether you want to attend another Junta public centre managed by the Galician Union. So in that sense, many problems have been solved since 2008. We bet on public social services, we all bet on social services. But we also recognize that social entities do an extraordinary job. Long before this Social Services Act existed, many social institutions were dedicated to providing social services, and they have experience, they have capacity and support from many people who consider that they are doing a very important job. So public services and quality services, we also bet on that. And this reform and this introduction of the social concert also bet on that. Of course, now, honestly, to tell me that the spirit of the Social Services Law of 2008, the spirit, was to prioritize social entities... the spirit. The writing is written. And you wrote that management could be direct or indirect. Oh yes, but the spirit of those who wrote at that time... well, as you say, things have to be written, and, after writing them, write them and approve them. What you can't come here is to deny a law that has been in force since 2008. For us, the important thing is that this amendment introduces and regulates the social concert, which already existed in other communities and will now be regulated in our community, a new management model that reinforces the role of social initiative entities, which guarantees essential rights to users and that overcomes the limitations of current legislation. I think we've worked hard enough on the presentation, I think that with all the amendments and all the transactions that could be accepted or traded, the work has already been done in the presentation, and of course I expect your support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. We therefore proceed to the vote on the legislative texts. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u130	We begin with the vote by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, of the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police. We begin by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Jointly with the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police, not incorporated into the Commission's mandate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u131	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Gaga de Left Alternative to the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police, not incorporated into the Commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u132	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego to the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u133	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police, not incorporated into the Commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u134	And now we are voting on the committee's statement. We vote. Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. The draft law was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u135	We are now voting on the legislative text for the single reading procedure and the urgency of the Bill, so that an extraordinary remuneration is approved for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer perceived in the proportion of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. First of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. the Galician Alternative to the Bill approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees of the Galician public autonomic sector, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 39; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected for the full refund.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u136	We are now voting on amendments to the whole with alternative text. We started by voting for the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole with alternative G.P. text. Jointly with the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety with alternative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u137	And now we are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales with alternative text as well. We vote. Voting the amendment to the whole with alternative G.P. text. from the Galician Nationalist Block to the draft law approving an extraordinary remuneration for employees in the autonomous public sector of Galicia, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected in its entirety with alternative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u138	And finally, we voted on the bill. We vote. Voting of the Bill, processed by the single reading procedure and urgency, so that an extraordinary remuneration is approved for employees in Galicia's self-employed public sector, in respect of the recovery of the amounts actually no longer received in proportion to the time of services provided during the period from 1 January to 28 February 2013. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 32. The voting is positive. The draft law was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u139	We are now voting on the Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Act 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia. We begin by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint motion for a Law amending Act 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services in Galicia, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u140	We are now voting on the amendments of the Left Galician Alternative Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Galga de Left to the Bill of Amendment of Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services in Galicia, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u141	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Nationalist Block to the Bill to amend Law 13/2008, of December 3, of social services in Galicia, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u142	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill amending Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services of Galicia, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u143	Finally, we voted on the Commission's statement. We vote. Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law amending Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. This bill is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u144	We are now debating the third item on the agenda. Application for the establishment of an investigative committee, on a proposal from the Eighteen Members and Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the catastrophe that devastated the company Fandicosta in Domaio
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u145	To defend the creation of the commission, Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, we have attended various initiatives in this Parliament from various opposition groups in connection with the emergency system, with the operation of the emergency system in Galicia, and, from general to general, with regard to how this system worked in the fire that occurred in Fandicosta, in Domaio, on May 9 this year. And indeed, there have been many agents involved in this process that have manifested the existence of serious deficiencies that it is necessary to correct to prevent them from repeating again. We understand that there is, without a doubt, a technical dimension on this issue that this Parliament and this parliamentary group do not intend to replace in any case, but we also understand that there is an important political dimension, and we think that the European Parliament is the right place to develop this process. In a question asked by this Member to the Vice-President of the Council of Galicia, there are two fundamental features in the answer which, of course, I do not share, and which are clearly, in any way, questioned by the information provided by the Government. I mean, the information provided by the Government came today -- I suppose it's a coincidence -- at 12.48 in the morning. All right, it's better today than a few days ago. But, I repeat again, oh! By chance, even today, transcripts of telephone communications have arrived between the different fire stations and the 112 Central Emergency Agency. One of the things that I said here and that the vice president questioned was that, on three occasions, for an hour, since 112, Vigo firemen were told that other fire parks were notified and that therefore there was no need for them to be present. I have no time, of course, to reproduce this, I suppose it will be at the disposal of all groups and, therefore, I suppose you can see it there. What's true in objective terms is that Vigo firemen didn't get to that fire that had been produced just ten minutes by the highway of their fire park in Teis until almost an hour after they were exactly warned of this fire. It must be noted that in this facility there were, on the one hand, two deposits of 5,000 litres each, of ammonia, that the Fandicosta installation is very close, practically contiguous, to one service station and the other service station located across the road, and that we find ourselves in an area of scattered single-family housing, as anyone who knows the Domaio area knows perfectly well. The vice-president of the Government also said – no usual political escapism exercise in Mr. Feijóo and his government, and on the one hand it is true that in a subtle way that I have not come to understand, I have to recognize it – a certain responsibility of the Town Hall and, therefore, of the Mayor of Vigo in the management of the process itself, of the exit process of Vigo firefighters and the arrival to the place of fire. And then, of course, there's also the lack of reports from the deputies in order to propose a review of the system of district fire stations. The Parliament of Pontevedra has presented an economic report and a technical report, and it is true that there has been an agreement to make a common report among all the Members to homogenise the system. But, Mr. Vice-President, or you've been misinformed or perhaps I've been misinformed. The Deputy of Pontevedra has submitted that legal report and that economic report. I repeat once again that there is indeed a single report of all Members pending. One question has been made clear, a question that has also been repeated in this House over the past seven years, which is the need to systematize and properly protocolize what emergency and non-forest fire fighting systems are, by the way. The one from the forest fires we've already seen that it is well protocoled through INAER. I think it's the most appropriate way to protocol actions in this case. What's true is that, when the vicars arrived at Fandicosta, they found only three troops with a ladder vehicle and an urban bomb of Cangas, and that another urban bomb that had arrived from the Porriño had run out of water and was no longer operational. I, without questioning, of course, the professionalism of the people who work at the Emergency Station, I invite all of you, really, to read the transcription of these conversations. I've got some marks, the ones that gave me time, and I repeat that I don't question the professionalism of anyone. There they don't appear, logically, the names, they're deleted. But, of course, a fireman has to explain three times to the interlocutor or interlocutor of the Central Emergency Agency that what he wants is a water pump and not a candy bomb, and that they tell him, "What do you mean a water bubble?" or don't know much about fires -- and that's what the firefighters were transferring to me -- or there's a problem. This probably has something to do with understanding the Emergency Station, outsourcing the services, as if it were a call center of Movistar. And another thing, a much more serious thing that affects the security and integrity of goods and people, and we clearly see it in this case. The Vigo Town Hall, in its fire park, has a special protocol for large fires, it has the means to bring those fires up. And again, I repeat, the first news, the first communication, is from 17.55, 17.53, from 9 May. It's very interesting the sequence of who calls who. Vigo firemen call ten minutes later at 112. I told them they don't need to. They call at 18.44, i.e. 51 minutes later, and they say they don't need it again. And at 18.47, that is, almost an hour later, they say they're actually going out because the ultimate manager, who is the chief of the fire department, and the Vigo Town Hall, their mayor, give them the order to leave, at the company's request. And now I'm going to read to them what the Emergency Station tells firefighters in Pontevedra, who also offer their collaboration, exactly at 19.24. They say, "Look, for now, it's not requested, they're Morrazo's. They were Vigo's at the company's request." It won't be that they think it's at the request of the Emergency Station and the concessionaires of the county parks, who pass their bills to the insurers, protest. The Porriños are mobilized, the Salnés as well. I insist, I think it's sufficiently illustrative what we're talking about. They are those of the Morrazo, they were Vigo's at the request of the company itself, the Porriño ones, and they're also mobilized those of the Salnes. Well, I think it's more than obvious, Mr. Rueda, that it's essential, as you said they're going to do, modify those protocols. It's essential to know what happened, because it can happen tomorrow or last, before these protocols are modified, which doesn't seem to have a particularly accelerated dynamic, by saying it somehow. And, of course, what is absolutely true, without any doubt, is that the actions of a government cannot be covered up by throwing responsibilities on administrations that do not have the slightest competence on that issue. And I'm speaking in this case of the Vigo Town Hall. From what you have to realize is this system managed by private companies, which undoubtedly and legitimately, from the point of view of companies, seeks this business benefit but which we are seeing is not able to meet the objective needs of the system of protection or the emergency system of Galicia. It is essential to change the protocol and it is essential to agree the comarcal emergency system with the big cities. I would like to know why the Galician Union is able to make an agreement, which I think well, with the Principality of Asturias to cover emergencies in the border areas of the province of Lugo and Asturias and is unable to make a similar agreement with the urban fire parks, which clearly have many more means and much more capacity for personnel, technical and technological to fight these great fires, be Vigo, be The Coruña, be Pontevedra, finally the urban parks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u147	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u148	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. And this is exactly what we think it is necessary to study and investigate in this Parliament; of course, to investigate something that I repeat again that is here quite clearly, which is the objective despair of the owners, on the one hand, of the company, who saw that the protection system provided by the Galician Union was not enough, the despair of those who knew the risk potential of 10,000 litres of ammonia stored and the absolutely slow and disconcerted response that occurred. I repeat it again: it is enough to see the timing of the calls and, above all, the sense of the calls, of what the firemen of Vigo and Pontevedra are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u150	...the ones that offer their services while the Emergency Central only thing it does is to satisfy and defend the results accounts of the companies that manage the county parks. I think it clearly deserves a commission of inquiry. And a government that assumes transparency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u151	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u152	I'm sure you'll vote yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u153	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The turn of parliamentary groups to set the position. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u154	Thank you, President. If it wasn't for the seriousness of the matter, it's really funny what happened in connection with Fandicosta. But the good thing you've had, at least, is that you've reopened the social debate on the management and coordination of the emergency service. On the edge of the fire, in particular, the Galician Public Firefighting Platform believes that there must be a debate about the dual firefighting system in Galicia, with public parks in large cities and private management in the neighbourhoods, something about which we have discussed many times in this House. The fire started, as the Socialist Party spokesman said, at 5:53 p.m., but level 1 of the emergency plan was not activated until 8.45 p.m. Despite the virulence of the fire, which forced him to close the traffic on the Rande Bridge, and the warning of the risk of explosion of two deposits with 10,000 litres of ammonia, the collaboration of both Vigo and Pontevedra Park, which offered its services to 112, was rejected. Although Vigo firemen moved on their own initiative to Domaio. At 2200 hours – although nothing happened – they tried to suffocate the Fandicosta fire almost half a hundred firefighters from five different parks, three tugs – two from the port of Vigo, one from Maritime Rescue, and one from the board. The Galician Public Firefighters Platform has described the management of the Galician Emergency Agency as disastrous, and it believes it has suggested that the damage caused is greater. Lack of coordination or serious procedural deficiencies are some of the errors that are detailed. Article 52 of the Rules of Procedure of this House provides that committees of inquiry may be set up on any matter of public interest. And, undoubtedly, what happened in Fandicosta, and because of the operation of the Emergency Agency, is of the highest social interest, not for ill-intended interests, but to correct errors, evasiveness and errors, and to put in place all the necessary changes to achieve a safe emergency system for workers, for the population and for the environment, and effective and efficient; an emergency system that prevents a new economic, environmental disaster or, which is worse, in human lives. The current emergency care system has the same deficiencies that have already been manifest in the Angrois accident, in the fire of the Brión ice-cream ship, in the fire of the Ferry Square in Pontevedra and now in Fandicosta. The Vigo firemen report that, in the face of the negative of the 112 they were acting on, and in the face of the insistence of the Fandicosta managers – that the poor had to be amazed how the Junta had allowed the factory to burn and the firemen were thrown into the parks without acting – they had to help the managers to put out the fire. And they came in a tank truck. The mobilization of the media was inappropriate, dilating in the times of response when attempting to exclude the services of Vigo and Pontevedra. And they also report that there was no defined command, each service was organizing its tasks for free will, turning the operation into chaos – that's Vigo's firefighters. The firefighters in Pontevedra report that 112, in addition to vetoing the intervention of public firefighters, also entertained them with a false alarm about a non-existent truck that burned at N-550. The Pontevedra Park, 14 minutes from the focus of the fire, received no call from 112 until at least eight o'clock in the afternoon – we speak of the five – at least eight o'clock in the afternoon they received the first call, but not to ask for help but to ask for water because – as the spokesman of the Socialist Party said – the bomb that was coming from Porriño had already been finished. They sent a tank with 10,000 liters of water, and so things, still no one had decided to activate level one emergency. Level 1 – as I said – was activated at least nine, but no help was requested from Pontevedra until almost an hour later. And then I asked her to despair, with all the means available, they needed everything when there was nothing left to save, the factory was already burning. How can you tell from 5:00 p.m. to Pontevedra and Vigo fire parks repeatedly that they don't need to go and at 10:00 p.m. they say they come with everything they have available because they don't control it? How can one act with such irresponsibility? The extinction of fires should be a direct management service – we say many times – coordinated by the same command that prejudges the security of people and of goods to economic and business interests. Not only are the fire stations privatized but 112 itself was subcontracted with the Telemark company. The Vice-President of the Board – you, Mr. Rueda – defended the following day that in the Fandicosta fire the emergency services acted properly and that, in coordination with 112, they fulfilled their role. So I have a lot of questions left. If you acted correctly in coordination with 112, why did you refuse the help of the parks of Vigo and Pontevedra? It doesn't make any sense that both parks with more capacity and that are closer to the focus of the fire if I tell them they don't go. And they're called the youngest, who have no means or personnel. And then, at the end of the night, at ten o'clock, yes it all needs, of course. Why didn't you keep in mind that the more firefighters and the faster they arrive, the less human consequences and fire materials? I mean, even if I hadn't done such a mistake, of course if there were more means the fire would get to a lot less. On what criteria was this decision based that the firefighters didn't come when they looked after, at ten o'clock in the evening, that this was irremediable already and there was water by sea and by land throwing on the ships? Did you take into account the risk of explosion of ammonia deposits not to respond to those calls? I hope that this committee of inquiry will be adopted unanimously by the House so that we do not have to regret any other action that is so disappointing and chaotic. These facts once again call into question the functioning of emergency services and their coordination. In the face of critical situations, and once again, it is clear that if the problems are solved, it is because of volunteerism and professionalism in this case of firefighters and their performance, despite being obstructed by Axega. These are the reasons why the Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group and the Mixed Group at the time requested the Vice-President's urgent presence to provide information on the operation of the Fandicosta factory fire emergency service in Moaña, of the causes that caused this lack of coordination between the various media, of the deficiencies in the mobilization of firefighters, of the lack of support to the company when he asked for it, and whether the Agency's decisions were appropriate to address the characteristics of the emergency. About three years of the terrible crash in Angrois, the emergency service remains a non-operational and dramatic entrailment. After almost fourteen years of the Prestige accident, our backs are still out of action protocol. Let's not wait for the next fire or the next big accident that we have to regret to react. Let us put in place this commission not in order to seek to blame the situation but rather with the aim of putting all means to ensure that the next fires, the next emergencies, are dealt with swiftly, effectively and effectively. For my part, I only have to transmit the Joint Group's support for the creation of this committee. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u156	The truth is, it's curious – as the PSdeG spokesman said – to see that the recordings are sent today precisely. But it even causes more anxiety, if it is true, to see the degree of chaos – as defined by the fire crew itself – in which the emergency system is plunged. And listen to some of the firemen's conversations with the CAE where they talk about water vats and the person who listens says, "Cubos?" "No, no cubes, you try." And he came back, "Cubes?" "No, water tanks, which will need cisterns." Talks, absolutely, about what you're hallucinating about, because you're wondering if you're wasting your time when there's a major fire. And the truth is, we don't seem to know who's on the other side of the phone, who looks at us on the other side of the phone, on the other hand, of a subcontract. And this happens, logically – as we said in the other plenary, when we talk about the motion that the BNG brought precisely on this issue of Fandicosta – because the strategy of the People's Party was to privatize. Privatization has led to disastrous consequences for the quality of service and citizenship: it's more expensive, precarious staff work and there are other aspects of profit, which logically private companies are looking for profit. And, as Mr. Losada said, try not to mention that Vigo firemen's initiative was precisely because they decided to go there because there was a fire. Of course, I mean, firefighters who are closest to that fire weren't called because you don't know very well what strategies and protocols. Because after calling the Morrazo firefighters, the following are the Porriño firefighters. Of course, the Porriño must be before Vigo, it's something curious about the Greek map that has the emergency system. Sure. [[Murmurs.]] And then, in addition, what attracts attention – well, I made a quick reading – if one attends the different recordings contained there is to see the degree of precariousness precisely from the privatized parks. Because when Vigo firemen come to meet, at ten o'clock at night they're there and they say, "Here nobody's ready for an ammonia leak." And then the CAE says, "But they should have autonomous respirators." Well, they're not ready, they don't. And so that's the operation, the material, the security you're working with when you go, in addition, to a fire where there's ammonia tanks. Therefore, quite dangerous. There's a lack of prevention and probably lack of the right material. That's why Vigo firemen, who are the most prepared, should have been the first to come. The other day, we also had a chance to focus on the story that the firemen in Pontevedra had given us, because there are 14 minutes – we repeat, 14 minutes – where the fire was happening. And the story was also epic. Because it's amazing when there's a real impossibility that professionals offer themselves and someone on the other side, for the sake of not knowing very well what concept of citizen security, says that they're not necessary to extinguish a fire that was being important, uncontrolled – and so it appears in the recordings itself –. And, therefore, we don't understand why. In addition, with the theme of Pontevedra firefighters – as already said in the recordings themselves – there is this madness of a truck burning at some point and that no one is able to locate. And, of course, the firemen of Pontevedra, instead of being able to go directly to the fire of Fandicosta, for walking around the national to see where the fire of a truck is, which in the end is not well known where it was burning. That is, there is a whole series of disposings, a whole series of chaos – as the firefighters themselves say – of 112-Galicia chaos, of how it is affecting the current Greek emergency system, directly to the citizen and to the fireman services themselves. 112-Galicia chaos, indeed, and not only what happened in Fandicosta. As you collect here, because emergency calls are being produced and when you get there, because a house is lined up – between neighboring critics by the slow emergency response. And then others in which a fire in a Poio's housing set up the emergency map of Galicia. When it comes, it's late, and the house has irreparable damage and people live in these houses. Just as five hundred meters from the ammonia tanks, they lived. And, as you can see in the tapes themselves, the people who came there were not prepared for an ammonia leak, they were working in conditions of work insecurity. That's what we understand that can't be allowed or tolerated. So what we're doing here is repeating what was done the other day with the motion presented by the BNG. And it is to claim – and we know perfectly well that the strategy of the People's Party does not go through – once and for all the emergency system, the return to public management, ownership and public management of parks – there are 23 privatized parks. We go back to public management, we define a protocol of action, we define the isochrons well, we define the status of the professional – the status of the fireman, which is what it is claimed – and we work towards a serious path and not with a map of mosaic delaundering of tuteras, what is called before those of the Porriño than those of Vigo and those of Pontevedra, etc. It's not understandable how you can justify that this is reasonable, in no sensible head can enter this emergency system be reasonable. I understand you don't. We therefore support the proposal made by the Socialist Party. It must be determined who has the responsibility for things going wrong. Because here it seems that in the end no one is responsible. Who has the responsibility for not properly activating the procedures? Well, then, someone has to assume political, technical, professional responsibility, whatever they are, but of course they should be cleared. And precisely knowing them, knowing them, would make it easier to intervene and prevent future action. Because what we're talking about is learning from mistakes not to commit them, not to perpetuate them, and to follow the wrong path we've been going through. That is, the United Coordinator of Firefighters himself, in a statement made shortly of the event, was already talking about existing discoordination and mismanagement, lack of responsibility and political will from some leaders translated into poorly dimensioned, structured and/or equipped services. And something like this seems to happen depending on the recordings we received today. There is effective deprotection of some citizens, because when the public service offers bad guarantees, they are indeed protecting citizenship. So it's necessary to move forward in a framework law that regulates the profession and fire department, and we have to investigate what happened and who has to recognize and assume its political, professional, technical responsibility, etc. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As this is the third full row in what we are discussing about the fire that occurred in the Fandicosta company and, above all, in relation to the functioning of CAE 112 and the whole of the Galga Emergency Agency, I, of course, am not going to torture you by reading back to transcripts, nor those that we had previously facilitated by the Fire Platform itself, in which they made a detailed report of the different calls that were being made – which, of course, were denied in this Parliament by the People's Party, as Peter did before..., just as today they also deny it for the third time, as did St. Peter. And indeed, like everyone else, I've just learned that curiously, despite the fact that the motion said a time limit of fifteen days, today the three weeks of the motion's approval are fulfilled. And it's funny that today we receive transcriptions as unanimously approved in the motion presented by the BNG. And what I was able to verify is that, because of those transcripts that refer us to the Council of Galicia to Parliament, it is clear that, as we were told in the Fireworks Platform at 18.03, Vigo firemen communicate with CAE 112, and CAE 112 says they disagree on the matter because there are already the Morrazo firemen; they don't know very well about Cangas or Bueu, but in any case about Morrazo. And it turns out again that then, at 18.44, a new call was made, and so on. So it is found that it was true what we said here from this rostrum in the previous two plenary sessions, that it was not that we said it, but that we simply voiced the complaints made by the workers, and that, of course, there were issues that clearly indicated that there was an abnormal functioning, or an operation that, at least, causes distortion in responding to the emergencies by the Agega. I believe that this should already be more than enough reason for this Parliament to establish itself a commission of investigation or study – as Mr Losada said and I could use it too. Because here – and I would like the People's Party to understand this – it's not about chasing anyone, it's just about putting black on white about what's going on with our emergency services, what's happened on repeated occasions. And I'm not going to make here a list of all the serious issues in relation to the emergencies that have occurred in our country and where it is always shown that, when something serious happens, but sometimes even in more everyday matters, there is, let's say, a certain stress of the emergency system that exists in this country that makes it unable to respond in adequate conditions. And, as we've said on many occasions, it's only the volunteerism of people who are part of the different emergency services that make things never go bigger. So that would be more than enough reason: to analyze what we have and how it works, why it works so what we have, how we want things to work, and therefore what measures we should take to make things work properly. But in case this isn't enough for the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I think there's more reason than weight for us to have to open a committee in this Parliament to know what happened. On May 11, Mr. Núñez Feijóo said he asked for explanations to 112. And add: they'll have to explain the protocols, the schedules and why things didn't work properly. I am amazed that the first... –well, or second, depends on the interpretations of the protocol which indicate that the first authority of the country should be the President of Parliament and not the President of the Executive—but in any case it surprises me that the first authority of the country, the responsible for the functioning of the offices of the Administration of Galicia, says that there is a need to investigate, that there must be explanations, that they will have to explain why and how protocols and timelines work and what happened in that particular matter, and one month and seventeen days later I do not know whether the explanations were given to Mr. Núñez Feijóo in private, but since then to the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks, they gave us no explanation of what he was asking for – with all the reason of the world – Mr. Núñez Feijóo on May 11 when he visited the facilities of Fandicosta. Therefore, I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, would not consent that a President of the Government of my country, and much less being of my political formation – but not yet – ask for explanations and that we all look elsewhere. This is therefore the right place for us to demand that this commission of inquiry be opened in which the appropriate explanations are given. And all of this I'm saying is, as far as we're aware, what the position of the BNG is about how we believe it should be our country's emergency system. We have explained on many occasions that for us it is a dysfunction that there is a system made up of public parks with a municipal unit, by county parks dependent on a consortium that, in turn, is integrated by the Board, by the Deputies and by the Town Councils, that there are public firefighters, that there are privatized firefighters through companies, that there are gentlemen – and ladies, but mainly in this case – who have to have a certain degree, certain training, because they are public, or because they depend on a council, and that they have to have another training, another qualification, and consequently also different payouts because they depend on a private company. We consider this system a dysfunction that from our point of view is the cause of many of the issues that occur when there is an emergency. But I assure you that the claim of the Galician Nationalist Block to vote in favour of this investigation commission that Mr. Losada has defended is not to make a judgment on the emergency system, it is simply to know what happened, exactly as Mr. President said. What about protocols? What about the chronograms? Why is a park that has a 34-minute isochronic first mobilized than a park that has a 38-minute isochronic and above it has much more means than to face a risk situation like a factory with chemicals that can become dangerous? That is what we want to look into in this Parliament, because it was also three weeks ago in the plenary of Parliament, in that motion we approved, not only the point of reference to which the transcripts were sent in fifteen days. There was also a mandate from Parliament to the Galician Union to take the necessary measures to amend the protocols in what is necessary to ensure their proper functioning. And I honestly believe that the best way to carry out a mandate that would also be in that motion, which means that protocols we have to do by listening to the people who work every day in emergency services, as well as the technicians, as well as the experts, but also the firefighters and their representatives, both the public, the privatized and the middle pensioners. And what better place to do that conversation and let everyone come here to tell us what happened, how could it have been solved and how could the protocols have been articulated so that it would not happen again than to do it in a Parliament's committee of inquiry that ends up having a dictatorship that is approved by Parliament's plenary, and that, therefore, it is binding on all of us to manage and improve the emergency system in our country? So for these three reasons: because I think it is essential to know what happened, because it is the only way to improve the device and, above all, because Parliament can't make that ugly for Mr. Nuñez Feijóo to leave him in ignorance of receiving the explanations he has requested. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u160	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. After hearing so much emergency expert in this House – we heard Mrs Martínez, Mr Ron... – the truth is I have to say that I am deeply sorry that you are coming here to this Parliament to doubt the professionalism of the Morrazo firefighters, who were in charge of this emergency operation. That's what you guys are here to do. [[Murmurs.]] And I regret that they forget that this Morrazo firehouse depends on the Provincial Firefighters Consortium of Pontevedra, from which Mrs Carmela Silva is president. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] In short, I believe that, of all the experiential situations that we have seen in this House and played by opposition groups, we are in front of one of the most acute. The Vigo Socialist Party – who came to talk here today in the face of the person of Abel Losada – is asking for an investigation commission on an event of what we have already talked about here in two plenary sessions. It's funny because they come here asking for a commission of inquiry about a conflict between two services, one managed by Mrs. Carmela Silva and another managed by Mr. Abel Caballero. And they come to ask explanations to the Galician Council. That's the Socialist Party of Vigo [[Murmurs.]] Well, there are two plenary sessions, we would discuss an interpellation, a question, and, at the last plenary session, a motion...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u161	Quiet, Mr. Gallego, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u162	...that we negotiate with the Galician Nationalist Block and in which the Galician Council was urged to refer to this Parliament the transcripts of these calls, which we have here today – those calls. But on that initiative we agreed with the Galego Nationalist Block, we also asked the Pontevedra Provincial Consortium, chaired by Mrs Carmela Silva, to deliver to this House an assessment report on her performance. And we also gave him a 15-day term. That report didn't come, it didn't come. You worry that today's transcription of the calls, but Carmela Silva is all right, all right, Mr. Losada. Before he can have all that information necessary for a trial of value, the Socialist Group has already filed an application for the establishment of a commission of inquiry. That's the reality. It's all right. Today, at last, we understand these advances, Mr. Losada, because this morning these transcripts of the 112 calls requested by the Galician Council have just arrived at Parliament, and in them it is perfectly believed that this argument unfolded by the mayor of Vigo, and today reproduced by his delegate in the Galician Parliament – will have problems with his neighbour behind him – that argumentary by Mr. Abel Caballero reproduced by you, was a lie, it was all false, from beginning to end, completely false. You have the transcripts. And, Mr. Losada, never, never at any time is denied from 112 to Vigo firemen the option to intervene, at no time. To say that is to lie. From the very first moment they are encouraged to come if they consider it necessary. And that's why they need this debate as soon as possible. Because they knew that as soon as the reality of the calls was made public, Mr. Caballero, Mr. Losada and all the members of the Socialist Party of Vigo would be perfectly evident. And that is why you do the paripe to request the establishment of a non-permanent committee to 20 days that this session will end – it is curious – and therefore Parliament must dissolve. It is frankly curious that they consider that they can resolve a commission with a speed of twenty days, at the same time that Mrs. Silva has no deadline. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She doesn't, she answers whenever she wants to, does she? It's all right. Look, about the model of the system, we've been waiting for six months for some of the Members who govern the Socialist Party, and in some cases also with the Galician Nationalist Block – at least until now –: Pontevedra, Lugo, La Coruña... If they want to change the model, they make a proposal, but they don't, they don't. And if they're told that the Deputy of Pontevedra has sent that report, what they're saying is lies, they misreport us, maybe on purpose, but they misreport us. So, I think that if you really wanted to investigate with depth what happened, you would expect to request the creation of the commission of investigation in the next legislation. But I think there are two reasons why they don't. The first is that they are aware that the publication of the transcripts of the calls will make it clear that they have lied since the minute one falsely claiming that 112 had refused the participation of Vigo firefighters. The second reason, perhaps more prosaic, but no less certain, is that, if they had waited for the next legislation, the mayor of Vigo is not sure that in this House, as a representative of the province of Pontevedra, a representative of the Socialist Party of Vigo, would have come close to this gentleman. [[Murmurs.]] More importantly, I understand you're afraid that you might even enter some other "horseman" perhaps less closely to your strategies, another "horseman." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, this request for the creation of a commission is not intended to investigate anything at all, it is not intended to know any truth, but rather to make noise, which is what Mrs. Acuña knows how to do very well, to swallow everything and try not to hear the realities that expose her lies. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm going to read you some textual phrases from your application for this appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u163	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u164	Lie number one: "The Gaga Emergency Agency prevented Vigo firemen from coming to the Fandicosta fire until an hour after it started." False, false! He didn't stop, he didn't stop at any time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u165	Quiet, quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u166	It's perfectly believed in the transcripts of the calls. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you know what they say in that transcript? "All right, then come on." That's what they answer. [[Murmurs.]] Lie 2 of the Socialist Party of Vigo...:
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u167	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u168	"The German Government has created over the last few years a system managed by private companies operating in the districts." Falso! This system was not created by the Government of Greece, but agreed among the Government of Greece, the MPs, the Galaga Federation of Municipalities, the municipalities, the MPs governed by the Socialist Party and the BNG, in which they approved not only the creation of the consortium but also the model of indirect management that they now reject but that when they rule they also defend. Lies 3: "Private consortia, such as Morrazo, O Porriño or Ribadumia, can pass the bill of expenses to the insurance company. We're actually talking about pure business." False, Mr. Losada, false! The rates for interventions are gaining the consortium of firemen themselves through an agreement with the Deputy of Pontevedra. False too, and there are three lies. Well, let's keep it that way. In short, lie 4 – no, I don't want to ignore it – "That's also the telephone service itself 112, the first contact point between emergencies and aid, was subcontracted to a telephone advertising company." Deceitful, Mr. Losada, and with very bad faith. It is true that this service is outsourced, just as it has outsourced it, by the way, the Andalusian Board, where you rule, governed by the PSOE. And when you and the president were in charge, Mr. Méndez Romeo also had indirect management, you seemed all right. Now, that's right, it's very bad when the People's Party rules. Look, it's very irresponsible, very irresponsible, to doubt the quality of our emergency response service, especially when there are reasons that come to the conclusion that it's a professional service that has professionals who must be respected here in the House of Commons. Look, criticize us for what they want, don't question the professionalism of professionals... Don't do it. See, 112 Galicians have been counting since 2014 with a letter of approved and audited services certifying their quality. In addition, however, in April 2015 he received the European Quality Certification for Emergency Centres awarded by the European Emergency Numbers Association. We have in Galicia the second 112 that achieves this qualification across Europe. You come here to criticize everything, everything is very bad, but that's the reality. And since we want to go even further, we're working on another quality certification. That's the reality. Look, ladies and gentlemen, as the Government has already said in previous appearances, as we have already defended in the parliamentary group in the previous plenary, the management of this emergency was good, not perfect, but good. And there are no personal victims who have to regret anything at all. Therefore, management was good but not perfect, and therefore Agega did an internal work of evaluating its performance. And that's why you gave this Parliament some transcripts of the 112 calls you know and where it's clearly shown that Vigo firemen were not told they weren't, no matter how much Mr. Abel Caballero and Mr. Abel Losada said. That's right, we're waiting for that report from the Deputy of Pontevedra. Mr. Losada, you can call Mrs. Carmela Silva now and let her cheer up, cheer up. And that's why in the last plenary session the Vice President of the Board encouraged the Vigo Council to have 112 alert the Vigo firefighters in every emergency in the nearby municipalities. We're also waiting for Mr. Abel Caballero to respond to that offer. Because I suppose you'll know that city firefighters have strict municipal competence and that they can't be mobilized by 112 unless a civil protection plan is activated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally – finished already – I understand that you come here to carry out this campaign of noise, of chryspation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u170	They didn't learn anything about what happened last Sunday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u171	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u172	Mr. Abel Losada, abandon this strategy of the Socialist Party to imitate the Tides of Podemos. It gave them bad results. People in the end prefer copies rather than original ones. ... [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u173	Finish, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u174	They lost 100,000 votes on Sunday.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u175	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u176	They lost 100,000 votes on Sunday among all those who are here. We won 40,000 thanks to working in a humble and responsible way for the good of Galicia. Give up that strategy of questioning everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u178	...this strategy of crispation, confrontation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u179	Quiet! Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u180	Tell him not once to Mr. Abel Caballero, who is wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u181	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Thank you. Replication of the proposed group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, I'm trying to get back. Look, Mr. Tellado, I can read. Page 4, 18.03.35, I don't have time to transcribe it. [[Murmurs.]] Read it. Don't read the argument they're sending you from the Vice President, read what you put here. Man, they send him, we're not assholes, they send him! [[Strong murmurers.]] Let's see if we can focus. Or what do you think? [[Applause]] What did he read? Do you really think you've read it? You think I read it? Home! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Firefighters: "Sorry we wanted to know who they sent." "A moment, let the coordinator take it." "Hello, good afternoon." Vigo firefighters: "Hello, good afternoon. Look, we're asked by the deputy officer who was there. Where did you send people?" "You know what they are? Firefighters? Vigo firefighters: "Vigo firefighters, yes." Coordinator: "Well, firefighters are leaving for the area." Vigo firefighters: "Yes, but who are they?" Coordinator: "At the..." –Suspensive points, uh!, written, I'm not inventing it." "Let's see, I'm sorry, Morrazo, Morrazo firemen, and for the moment, they didn't get to the place, so we don't know if... Vigo firemen: "Are they the Cangas firemen?" Coordinator: "Os de Bueu." "Old Ones?" "Yes, of course, they have the base in Bueu." "Well, okay, okay. Thank you." "You're welcome." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like...? I didn't talk about a ban, I said it wasn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Let's keep going. 18.44... wait...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u183	Silence! Hey! Take it easy, everyone. [[Protests.]] Let's finish the full now. Calm down, please, everyone. Quiet, everyone, please. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u184	18.44... Man, what did you mean? That 112 had been with tanks at the Teis fire station so they wouldn't let the trucks out? But what are they talking about? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, what are you talking about? 18.44. One hour... no, I have to look for him, Mr. Vice President. [[Murmurs.]] The advantage is that I read it. Yes, they sent it exactly eight hours before this debate. He's... he's not in the debate even if he's Vice President of the Board. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u185	You can talk later if you want. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u186	Then whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u187	Go ahead. It's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u188	Then tell us Red Caperucita. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Hey, I can go on, but I'm not going to go on until Mr Vice-President is quiet, who then has a shift, if you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u189	But you're not talking now, you can go on. It's quiet now, you can talk. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u190	At 18.44, that is, almost an hour after the first warning, they call the firemen again. He doesn't call 112 firemen, he calls firemen. "Look, the firemen are gonna get out of here from Vigo there." "Just a moment, don't hang up." – 112–. "The request of who comes out?" And for firefighters, of course, the question is, "What?" Because I suppose they creep, which is not bad. Or 112: "Who's asking for them to come out? Yes, who mobilized them?" Firefighters: "The chief fireman of the service." The 112: "Your own boss?" "Yes. Wait a minute I'll put you with the deputy." Officer: "Hello afternoon." 112: "Good afternoon. Look, I was asking the person who picked me up earlier on the phone who mobilized them, because we have no record of anyone asking them. It was to know." Officer: "Here's the owner or someone from the company." "Fandicosta?" "Yes, from Fandicosta, several times." The 112: "OK." Sub-Officer: We made contact with you, eh!, twice too, and it seems that now the smoke coming out of the ship is quite striking." "Yes, it's quite striking, it seems to even make visibility difficult." "Then he just called me the chief officer and told me to get out there." That's what the Vigo fire department officer says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If this is a proper management of two 5,000-liter ammonia tanks... Home!, I insist, there are no tanks in the street in front of the Teis fire department so the firemen don't get out. It's a bad management and it's so bad that five days later it's burning up a house in Fornelos de Montes and... yes, yes, also, Mr. Vice President, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Exactly the same. And instead of calling the ones from Roundabout, which are 18 kilometers away, they call the center of Plane, which is 40 kilometers away. So I'd like to know... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u191	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u192	...which is exactly... the firefighters of the Porriño asked for the support of Round her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like there isn't? No firefighters? Isn't there?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u193	Looks like no, but good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u194	Well, then, the firefighters of the Porriño should know where there are firefighters, I say. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, is it true or not?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u195	Finish, please. Quiet, please! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u196	Hey, that's the information we have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u197	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u198	So far the information we had was zero, Mr. Vice President, so far it was zero. It is evident that Mr. Tellado's reading ability exceeds mine, which seems to me to be good. But, in any case, what I want to make clear is that we're not questioning nobody's professionalism here at all. We question... No, no, not the workers... No, no, no... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u199	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u200	They also tried to make it work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u201	Quiet, please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u202	They also tried to make it work with Álvaro Cunqueiro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u203	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u204	They tried to make it work with Álvaro Cunqueiro, they tried to work with the schools that were closing. We don't question public professionals. We question a salad that is incompetence, political book sectarianism and private business.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u206	And by the way, the Deputy of Pontevedra what he doesn't do now is buy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u207	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u208	...[...] for motions of censure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u209	Thank you, Mr. Losada. I don't know. I didn't know what he said. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It had nothing to do with this. We therefore vote on the establishment of this committee. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Let's vote. We vote. Voting of the request for a commission of inquiry, on a proposal from the Eighteen Members and Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the catastrophe that landed the company Fandicosta in Domaio. [[Mountain]] Quiet. Quiet, ladies. Quiet, please, let's read the result. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This request for a commission of inquiry is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u210	Of course, here's the result, which we're going to do! As we have commented, there is now a change in the agenda and a question is put to the Government. Question by Mr Javier Dorado Soto and three other Members, by Mr P. Popular de Galicia, on the forecasts of the Galician Union regarding the construction of the Vigo intermodal station
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u211	Silence, please, so that the question can be asked. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Mr. Gallego, call to order. Mr. Gallego, call to order once. Mr. Gallego, call to order. Call the order, Mr. Gallego, once. [[Murmurs.]] Excuse me. Quiet, please. Silence so you can ask the question, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u212	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all. I am sorry that this question about Vigo's intermodal station is not of interest to the Secretary General of the Socialist Party of Vigo who has just left the plenary. I come here to talk about Vigo but not to criticize his firemen, I come here, Counselor, to ask you about a very important matter.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u213	Mrs. Hide, call to order. Let's see how we're done. Call the order. [[Murmurs.]] Please, please... there you are. I understand that the time is bad, but a little calm, we're already finishing. Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u214	Mr. President, I have just been called corrupt, in the end, a lack of respect and a lack of interest, but I will continue, Counselor. This legislation that is about to end can go through history because it's Vigo's legislation. Vigo's legislation because if you've got a solution to the big infrastructure... this is impossible president, they won't let me talk about Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u215	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u216	I understand the resentment, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u217	I'll fix it! Mr. Fajardo, Mr. Fajardo... If you want, there's no other choice left, you'll vote for the summer. Your time will be compensated, Mr. Dorado, wait.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u218	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u219	Until there's silence, we don't proceed to the question. Quiet, please. Quiet. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u220	Thank you, Mr. President. He said this legislation is going to go to history because it's Vigo's legislation, which has put a solution to the big infrastructures... really, it's not... I understand you don't like to talk about Vigo because Vigo won the People's Party last Sunday, but we have to talk about Vigo too. You have to understand that Vigo has to be talked about, too. [[Applause]] Look, I was saying, Counsellor, that in Vigo this legislation was built a public reference hospital in Spain, that the City of Justice is being launched, that the metropolitan transport has started, has been passed a law that urbanizes our city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, silence. Quiet, please. You understand this is difficult, you imagine that the other group is doing the same thing. There's no one to control, if the other group does the same thing... yes, yes, if the other group does the same thing when you're talking, it's hard. Well, you'll see, your time will be compensated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm starting again because it wasn't clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u223	No, no, Miguel, please, no, that's outside. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u224	I was saying, Counselor, for the third time, that this is going to be the legislation that goes into history because it's Vigo's legislation. The legislation in which the main facilities and infrastructure needed by our city were launched: the hospital, the City of Justice, the metropolitan transport, the cleaning of the river, the rehabilitation of the old helmet, and now we're going to talk about another great infrastructure that will change our city, which is the intermodal station. Vigo is the city that has the most distance between its bus station and its train station, exactly 4.5 kilometers, this parliamentary group bets on the intermodality of transport. We defend intermodality and defend metropolitan transport. We'd like to know, Counsellor, what your forecasts are about this infrastructure that is so important to our city, what the deadlines they keep at the council office, and if you can, you can make the most of the project so that we can know it in full detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u225	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u226	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u227	It's okay. Second call to order. Yeah, well, you've been interrupting for a long time today. Second call to order, which means another call to order and you have to leave the full. Counselor, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u228	Thank you, President. At Galicia we bet on promoting intermodality, different modes of transport, and we do it with continuous work, with serious work, with constant work, so that Vigo may be the municipality of the first intermodal station in Galicia. We want to comply with our word and move forward so that Vigo has a new bus station in the vicinity of the Urzáiz Railway Station that favors the movements and allows a quick and simple exchange of the different modes of transport, in this case, because railway and bus. We have a lot of work ahead of us, in 2014 we have already done the studies, in 2015 we have bid and signed the service contract to draft the basic project of the execution of this new bus terminal and, for a few days now, we have already had the basic project of execution of these works that we present in Vigo: a complex technical document and also rigorous analysis of the different aspects that need to be done so that a new bus station is built fully integrated in that future centre Vialia, in that station Thom Mayne, which so much claims the mayor of Vigo. The basic project, therefore, gives us an idea of how the future configuration of this new intermodal station and its final aspect will remain. We're talking about a new terminal with 15,500 square meters, which is an investment by the Galician Union, which is going to be worth 11.7 million euros. It will be built on two floors: first floor, top floor, with 29 distributed with different settings, one on saw teeth, which are the best option for those services and interurban transport, and other fish spina, suitable for long-distance services that need more parking time. On the bottom floor will be located the service building –570 square meters –, waiting areas, information services, ticket sales, toilets, storage, offices, etc. So the office building and two buildings that will be delimited with a covered pedestrian square. So the new bus station that we're designing at the Galician Union takes into account constructive aspects, functional aspects and also urban aspects. It presents a singular and adapted aesthetic, taking into account the peculiarity of the land, and also integrated into that future Thom Mayne station, the future Vialia centre, customised with Vigo and, most importantly, is a station with an efficient, functional design that is what neighbors ask us to do, that is what we are asked for common sense and also that will allow the exchange of axile modes of transport, safe and respond to the transport needs of Vigo neighbours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u229	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u230	Again, once again, he's not interested in us talking about Vigo. In case someone has not found out – and what comes to corroborate now the advisor – this will become Vigo's legislation, history, it will be so. And that he doesn't like it, he doesn't like it. [[Interruptions.]] Look...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u231	Call the order, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u232	Miss Counsellor, I think it's important that Vigo be the first city in Galicia to have an intermodal station. We thank him. We thank you very much, but, Counselor, I would like to move our concern for fundamental issues from this group... Mr President, it is impossible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u233	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u234	I'm going to make the challenge of trying to talk for a minute without interrupting to see if I can get it. Thank you. I was saying, Counsellor, that we are concerned about this parliamentary group: our concern is focused on the access of this station. We are very concerned because Vigo's urban planning in 2008 clearly said, made this planning by the mayor of Vigo, that the accesses would be made by Vigo's municipality. This urban planning – as everybody knows – was declared illegal by the Supreme Court, however, this Government and this Parliament have passed a law which has been able to set up the intermodal station and, therefore, I understand that it is so, and if it is in the interest of the Vigo council, they should put in place as soon as possible the access to the construction of that intermodal station. What happens, Counselor, is that I don't have a lot of faith, I don't have a lot of faith because Vigo's council has already set up all possible obstacles for the construction of a new hospital: it didn't want to give you water, it won't give you the light, it won't do the parking you promised to do. The same council that has prevented the vigues from benefiting from the benefits of metropolitan transport over the last fifteen months, the Vigo council that has prevented the Galician Union from being currently building the City of Justice because it has not given the land to those who have been engaged for many years. That's why, counselor, we'd like to know what your approach is about, what you think is the attitude of Vigo Town Hall to build those accesses and what the next steps in building this intermodal station are going to be. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u235	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Replica. Director of Infrastructure and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u236	Thank you, President. At Galicia we are fulfilling, we are fulfilling Vigo, our obligations and, within our competences – in time and form – we have the funds guaranteed, we have the funds stored and guaranteed. We already have the basic project for the execution of this bus station, in a few months, this same year, we will count on the construction project of this new bus terminal next to the railway station, and we will therefore be ready to bid the works this same year. But for that, the provision of land is necessary, the adaptation of urban planning, and also the appropriate access and, for that, the collaboration of all the administrations involved is required, the collaboration of all governments with competences. With regard to the availability of land, most of them are from the Ministry of Development, we have reached an agreement and, I must say, without economic consideration. As far as urban planning is concerned, you all know that the 2008 General Plan was cancelled and it was the Junta that gave you an urban solution so that you can go ahead with this important project in Vigo. But where all the way to walk and do is about access, and it really corresponds to Vigo's Town Hall doing all the work with regard to access, although at the PXOM of 2008, cancelled, it already anticipated a four-year deadline, and it was an obligation of the Town Hall, it really didn't do anything and the Vigo Town Hall did no action with respect to those accesses. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary for the Vigo Town Hall, which has placed the intermodal station as one of its priority projects in the Vigo Town Hall, to fulfil its obligations, which gives the intermodal station therefore its accesses. At the Galician Junta, what we expect is for the Vigo Council to act with responsibility and transform that interest it has and that it says about that intermodal station, which translates it into work, in implication, to provide the intermodal station with the right accesses. Because it's not only the access to a bus station, it's the access to a new railway station, the access to a shopping mall Vialia, so access to a large intermodal station Thom Mayne that so much claims the mayor. The truth is it seems that it was much easier than the AVE buried at the Urzáiz station to access the buses to the new intermodal station. The criterion we asked at Vigo is the same as in Santiago. I think we have to work without delay, we have to add effort...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u237	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u238	...that's what we ask Vigo to do, add up efforts because they're common projects, as all major projects require the involvement of all administrations. For my part, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u239	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Losada, what do you want the word for? Give a voice to Mr. Losada's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u240	76.2, Mr. President, because I understand that Mr. Vice-President said that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u241	No, I'm sorry, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u242	How can I forgive you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u243	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u244	Here's the red fireman's car and he's got a hose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u245	I'm sorry, that matter is angry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u246	I think it's the round her fireman's car.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u247	...and you were in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u248	But he called me a liar!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u249	The session is suspended. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u250	He called me a liar!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u251	You don't have the floor. No, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u252	He called me a liar!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u253	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u254	What do you mean, no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-28-DSPG158.u255	According to the regulation, no. [[Murmurs.]] We'll stop the session. It doesn't work. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Protests.]]
