ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u1	Thank you. We've opened the doors now. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of Parliament, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs González Sánchez has justified the non-attendance of Mrs González Sánchez. We're on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u2	Yes, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for? [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u3	Mr President, I understand that any change in the agenda must be discussed at the beginning of the sitting before the different agenda items begin to be put into effect. In this respect, we wish to appeal to Article 73, which literally states that the agenda of the plenary may be amended by agreement with it, either by proposal from the President or by request of two parliamentary groups or by a fifth of the members of the House. The Joint Group, as well as the AGE Parliamentary Group, and the BNG Parliamentary Group, propose that the agenda of this plenary meeting be amended to include, on the agenda, the debate and vote on the establishment of the Angois Railway Accident Investigation Commission. You have a 17487. Apart from the arguments put forward at previous sessions in which this issue was discussed, we understand that there are new data that assess, even more strongly, the need to set up an investigation commission on the crash of Anguilla, and, in particular, the report by the European Union Railway Safety Agency, which supports the arguments we have always expressed to demand the creation of this investigation commission. He says there was no independent investigation, that attempts were made to establish the causes in a single factor, the human error, obviously others, even though there was a lack of collaboration on the part of Renfe, Adif and the Ministry of Development when he refused to answer questions related to the investigation, that without mentioning the pressure of the Spanish Government to prevent this report from being published. And as we have said on many occasions, in addition to criminal responsibilities, we have to analyze and debug, if you have any, political responsibilities, because there is multiple evidence that political decisions have been made that have diminished security on this railway line. And I would like to remind you, lastly, that the regulation states that the German Parliament can agree on the establishment of any commission of inquiry on any matter of public interest, does not impose any other limitation. And we believe that it is obvious that investigating thoroughly and clarifying the truth about the causes of what was the biggest railway accident in our history is of public interest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u5	We therefore propose that this item be included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u6	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] You've already given her the backup... No, no, you, according to your statement, I asked you, do you support what you said? No, but the backseat has already given it for... I already give it to Mr. Jorquera. [[Murmurs.]] No, no... man, you've already told me that yes, that you gave your support to the request for a change of order of the day... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let me express your support and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u7	We, as signatories of that petition document of an investigation commission for the Angois accident, 17487, have repeatedly called for the setting up of an inquiry commission in the German Parliament to clarify what happened that July 24, with the aim of sheding light on what happened within the Ministry of Development and Adif and on the decisions that have been made, and also for the future not to happen again. The report by the European Railway Agency should reflect on the groups that opposed to doing this research commission, because it is clear, and of course, that the Ministry of Development and the Government of the State have dedicated themselves to putting sticks on the wheels in order to clarify what happened there, and they have decided to hide what happened there, and we believe that for a democratic system it is essential to know how the public administrations worked and, if there is a mistake, some political responsibility, to take action so that it will not happen again; an accident of this magnitude should not remain in the darkness, it should not remain in the darkness what happened. So, we're asking for that reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u9	...and that group rectification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u11	...that they vetted this investigation commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u12	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mrs. Martínez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Martínez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u13	To add ourselves to the request for everything that has already been said by both the BNG and the AGE spokesman, but in addition, because we believe it is fair to the victims who investigate what happened, and because it is an obligation of the German Government, regardless of the competences, to investigate why this accident occurred in Galicia, with these consequences, and to demand that the Government of the State act accordingly. Therefore, our support for the People's Party to demonstrate, indeed, that this solidarity with the victims not only remains in statements, but that it is also willing to open an investigation, as is its obligation as a government. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. We must therefore vote on this amendment. [[Mr. Puy Fraga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Puy, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u15	That's exactly what the BNG spokesperson said. We, as it is public and notorious, have already objected and explained why we believe that this House has no competence to investigate the accident. If we recognize that there is a significant change in information available to the House as a whole and to society once the report of the European Railway Safety Agency has been published, and I would like, as a change in the agenda, to formally propose to the other groups the elaboration of an institutional statement in which this House formally pronounces itself on the need for an incontroverted technical report that provides an explanation and response to families, their neighbours and also to the whole of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u16	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Clearly, here you have to hear the positioning of the groups. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u17	Thank you, President. Invoking the same articles invoked by the BNG, and with the accession of the other groups, this parliamentary group will vote in favour of changing the agenda and our position on the request of the Committee of Inquiry on the subject of Angles is clear and clear, we have always had the same and will be expressed at the time when the decision on that commission of inquiry is discussed, in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u18	There's a proposal from Mr. Puy that you should speak about it. It would be good if the groups were to think about it. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera? [[Murmurs.]] He just called for a meeting with all the groups. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. I'm sorry, so far I can understand. Mr. Puy just made a proposal to have a meeting with all the groups, and here's to say whether they want to have the meeting or not. The thing is so simple to come to an agreement. Here's what's going on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u19	Mr President, the possibility of calling for an amendment of the agenda by Parliament is regulated. What is totally and absolutely unheard of is that there is a debate on a proposal for a statement made in voice by a spokesman. That certainly is not covered by the Rules of Procedure. [[Murmurs.]] Look, for a technical and incontroverted report, there must first be an independent and incontroverted technical commission. The CIAF, according to the European Union Railway Safety Agency, is not. And, in any case, the best way to clarify the truth is to investigate to the end, and that those responsible for making political decisions that have affected the lack of security on that railway line come before Parliament and submit themselves to questions and to control. That proposal can therefore at all replace the creation of an investigative committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u20	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Sánchez, and here we are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u21	Yes, Mr. Puy's request reflects how the People's Party goes behind the scenes and does not have a clear conviction to want to clear up political responsibilities, which is what it is about the request of the commission of inquiry; not an institutional statement which is not worth anything at all, in such a case to cover up the shames of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u22	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mrs. Martínez García asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u23	In the same sense that the voices of BNG and AGE, but I also believe that this request from the People's Party comes to recognize that all the research was a fraud and that there really is a need for an objective investigation. We therefore believe that it is not the People's Party's request and that all it is to do is vote on the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. We therefore vote on the amendment of the agenda... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm closing the debate. We voted for a change in the agenda. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo asks for the floor.]] We vote, no, no, please... but why? You've already spoken. [[Murmurs.]] But please, you've already spoken. This debate is... No, no, they've already spoken... well, they've asked for the word... well, but I think it's pretty clear. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, they want to talk, but... You're the one who hasn't actually spoken about what Mr. Puy said, that's the only one, that's the only one, now in everything else, that I've already understood that you accepted the request of the Galician Nationalist Block for a change in the agenda. If you ask me now to speak on Mr. Puy's, I understand that I have to give it to you, if it is to pronounce on Mr. Puy's. Well, then, one minute, for example. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u25	Thank you, President. In all respects, we understand that what we have to do now is vote on the amendment of the agenda, which is just proposed by the BNG, the Joint Group and the AGE, and then, in order to speak to the speakers of the parliamentary groups in connection with an institutional statement, we need to know the text of the institutional declaration in order to be able to study it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u26	That's what I said from the beginning, but good. That's what I said from the beginning. [[Murmurs.]] But well, it's the same, anyway, Mr. Puy, your proposal, to see.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u27	It's just that I understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u28	Yeah, yeah, it's an important subject, huh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u29	I understand, Mr President, that these are two distinct proposals and, therefore, I will, of course, transfer that proposal for an institutional declaration to you. It's not an alternative, it's two possible different actions; in any case, I'll hand one over to the president, so that after this debate, what is the position in relation to the report of the European Railway Safety Agency of the majority group. And also to make it clear that, from the very first moment, and at the present time, we continue to defend that we must know the truth of what happened in that English accident.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u30	Thank you. We therefore vote on the request to amend the agenda. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Silence, Mr. Fajardo, if we don't start the day wrong, and it's not a matter of starting the day wrong. It's the last round, please, a little bit of... we're going to take it normal. We voted for a change in the agenda. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, Mr. Fajardo. Quiet, please. Quiet, please! Vote for a proposal to amend the agenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u31	Shall we vote again? We vote. Vote for a proposal to amend the agenda. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected. Let's move on to the next point. Election of six members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u32	According to Article 79 of Law 6/2013, of 13 June, of the Galician University System, the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting of 5 July 2016, was informed of the vacancies of members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña for the expiry of its term of office, and after the hearing of the Speakers' Board agreed to initiate the procedure for the election, and its inclusion on the agenda of the plenary, and the opening of the deadline for the formalization of nominations until 11 July at 4 p.m. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June 2013 of the Galician University System, the members of this council shall be elected. After the deadline, the Bureau, at its meeting on 11 July, after qualified proposals, agreed to draw up a single closed list containing, in alphabetical order, the names of the candidates and the proposed candidates and the proposed parliamentary groups, as well as their transfer to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups. The election, in accordance with Article 91(1) and (2) and (2) of the Galician Parliament Regulation, shall be secreted by letters and alphabetically named names. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the services of the House, which lists the names of the candidates and the candidates proposed, and the corresponding boxes shall be marked with a stamp, up to a maximum of six. A blank vote is considered not to mark a box, and a null vote is considered when the names of other persons or other signs are written. When the scrutiny is carried out, they will be declared elected or elected if they get the most simple. I suppose you all already have the ballot papers. I beg the first vice president and the vice secretary to sit where the ballot box is, and the secretary to proceed to the alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u33	Thank you. Is there any member left without a vote? [[Pause.]] Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u34	We've got the result. Votes for Don Eduardo Álvarez González, 63; votes for Don Luis Ramiro Díaz López, 55; votes for Don Jaime Fernández-Obanza Caro, 55; votes for Don Alfonso Manuel López Pena, 62; votes for Don Luis Felipe Llamas Gómez, 55; votes for Don Ángel Manuel Teijeiro González, 62; and blank votes, 6. So, having reached the simple majority, the six members of the Social Council of the University of Coruña are appointed. We move on to the second item on the agenda. Debate of the People's Valedor's Annual Report for 2015
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u35	In accordance with the rules governing relations between Parliament and the People's Valor, adopted by the Bureau on 28 May 1991, the annual report is being discussed. A summary of the report discussed in the Committee on Petitions on 4 July 2016 will be presented by the Valator on 4 July 2016, and each group will then have a 10-minute turn to set its position on the report. I pray the first vice president to accompany the valet of the people to the rostrum of speakers to make his intervention before the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u36	Mr President of the Galician Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Bureau of Parliament, spokesmen for parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today I come before you for the first time to report on the activities of the People's Valedor during 2015. I am aware of the responsibility that such an act implies, and I consider it not only an obligation, but an honor. I don't want to tire them with a lot of data, I know they have them. If you would like to interpret trends in order to detect where the problems of Galician citizenship arise. My interest is to hold a bridge, which will allow the appropriate person to take the necessary steps to improve the choice that hinders or even prevents the full realization of justice through effective exercise of rights. Our function, our responsibility and our honor are committed to protecting those who complain to them without favor of any power, for right and justice thus require it, but they are also in explaining it to the Greeks when it is necessary why we cannot protect them if the circumstances of their case so recommend it. My work – no need to repeat it – is absolutely impartial and free of prejudice. I must answer equally to all those who ask for my intervention, and to do so I need the cooperation of all, that of the citizen who must speak with truth and without fear, in the certainty that he will be heeded; and that of the Administration, who must act in the conviction that they should not be the complainers of the complaint, for, if this exists for reasonable reason, the situation must be corrected because it is fair to do so. From this perspective I turn today to your lordships to expose the outcome of the mandate received from Parliament in Galicia. Let me first expose some minimal data that can serve as a basis for my reflection. The number of citizen care actions performed in 2015 was 46,843. This number is an increase of 52%. One interesting fact is that 63% of all complaints in 2015 occurred in the last quarter of the year, coincided with the change of ownership in this institution. I'm very interested in not undermining the confidence shown by the people of Greece, and that's why all the staff of the Valador institution worked to speed up the processing of the files so that, at the end of the year, 94.5% of the complaints admitted to the proceedings were completed. This benefit is expected to improve by 3 points relative to the records of the previous year. On the contrary, the number of inadmissible complaints has been very low, 9% is recorded, because we are an institution for the citizen. The percentage of the accepted recommendations is 83%, 15 points more than in the previous exercise. By analysing these figures by specific theme, I am in a position to say that the issues of the most concern to the Greeks are those related to social services, public employment, health and municipal policies. Valador's office also performed performances, less than in recent years, perhaps because the number of complaints the part instance was much higher. Reading this data leads to a first interpretation: the people's Valedor institution performs an important function because more and more people trust it. The Greeks are increasingly complaining about the People's Valuer because its democratic maturity is increasing, because they are more aware of their rights and also because they feel well cared for by an institution that is free, closer to the citizen, faster, clearer and more effective than others. The largest number of complaints is concentrated in the area of social services. In 2015, 300 complaints were received, less than in 2014, but signed by more signatories, as several of them were collective. For example, I remember one of 11,000 subscribers who was interested in the problem of older people entering residences. The complaint referred to the obligation to change the residence of older persons when they request the dependency for greater attention. In spite of the general rule, some small residences can meet these requirements, so the Council, as our seniors have requested, has undertaken to authorize the attention of dependent persons in small residences when possible. Complaints related to aid for social exclusion or the risk of falling into it are more numerous and require immediate solution. They appreciate, in addition, delays in both municipalities and councils; however, the answers offered to the problem are often positive. As for complaints about incomes of social inclusion, I must say that they are no longer so abundant, and the answers that are given, especially in the last few months of the year, are more positive. Now, most of Risga's complaints do not refer to delays, but to the payment of delays or recognition of new steps. So we understand that the situation has improved. In addition, current problems affect law development more than its implementation, but they seem to be in the process of being resolved, since the Social Policy Adviser has committed himself to carrying out regulatory development as soon as possible. We'll be ready to make sure it is. Dependency complaints have also decreased, and what is now is more about payroll or service reduction. We appreciate the remarkable change in the activities of the Social Policy Council. The numerous and prolonged delays in requests for care-related economic benefits in the family environment have been unblocked and positive responses to these complaints have begun to be noted. Service squares for dependency are still insufficient, and waiting lists are too long. The lack of residential squares is accused of urban contours. The Council, aware of this situation, has committed itself to trying to balance it so that older people don't have to get out of the way. People with intellectual disabilities are particularly affected by the lack of transition squares of the school stage and dependence. This problem is also in the process of solving. It must be improved, because it has been largely corrected, as well as the problem of adapted transport, especially in rural areas. The second big block of complaints from the Greeks focuses on the area of health. It is true that there are multiple factors to increase health expenditure, but this fact cannot condition beyond the strictly necessary right of citizens to be treated medication in the conditions that they require for the restoration of their health. That's why it's necessary to recommend improvement in the following items: waiting lists management, rational use of medicines, attention to people who exhaust their unemployment benefit and are not entitled to any subsidies and implementation of initiatives that help raise awareness of some of the healthcare professionals to improve the treatment they give to users. It would also be appropriate to analyse the effects of space restructuring and the mobility of health personnel in order to ensure an adequate balance between material needs and the duty to ensure effective attention to users. I also consider it necessary to bring together portfolios of services in different autonomous communities, as well as the recovery of the concept of insured persons, which allows citizens' rights to social security. Another very significant area within Valador's work is that of public and internal employment. The economic crisis has caused many problems of public employment due to rising unemployment and job insecurity. As a result, many claims were made concerning selective processes and, above all, temporary recruitment lists and employment grants, as well as appointments of temporary staff. Collaboration with administrations and the need for transparency has undoubtedly improved the situation, but there are still aspects to be monitored, among them, control of access through free opposition to a job in the Public Service and strict monitoring and verification of temporary recruitment mechanisms through existing lists. We also consider it important to reduce significant complaints about the abuse of administrative silence, which causes in the citizen a genuine legal insecurity and material defence, forcing him in many cases to turn to the judicial route. This practice leads to a situation that we believe must be corrected, since public bodies must not stand in the figure of administrative silence in order not to give an express response to citizens' demands. Another area of action that has been particularly entrusted to the Valador office for a few months was transparency. Today's widespread consideration of democracy as the best government system makes it necessary to give special consideration to the need to ensure citizen control over government activity. On the basis of the Geneva Act 1/2016, of January 18, of transparency and good governance, the number of transparency indicators with which autonomous administrations must be committed is considerably expanded. Within these indicators, we note a special linkage with the local government, which is enshrined in the right to access information from members of corporations and citizens, as well as in the development of new information technologies in the field of local government. The new German law gives the People's Valedora a special role, setting it in front of the Transparency Commission. In keeping with this task, Valdora acts in a double way. On the one hand, it becomes a passive subject of the legal obligations of transparency, which must meet at the level of excellence, and on the other hand acquires an active role, acting as supervisor of the fulfilment of the obligations of transparency that the rest of the public administrations have. In other order things, I must say that one of the vulnerable groups that raises the greatest concern for this valet is that of the minors. The number of complaints affecting them has increased, just as the number of claimants has done. We are very concerned about the problems arising from family shelters. We believe that profound changes need to be made in the reception programmes, understanding the preference of family solutions over residences. Similarly, it must be economically supported by the extended family, as it does not often contribute to the drastic separation of the minor from the family nucleus. Public policies for support for families must be stepped up, even establishing a fiscal framework for families. It is essential to take measures that promote birth and contribute to the rebalancing of family burdens by promoting family reconciliation. Similarly, many of the problems with the education administration affect children. They refer mainly to the admission of students, school lunchers and denial of bus stops. We are concerned about the presence of asbestos in educational facilities and also – although these complaints were referred by competition to the Ombudsman – the refusal of some scholarships or aids to the study. Special chapter deserves the problem of school harassment, especially homophobic, cyberbullying and sexting. We're working a lot on this matter, trying to raise awareness of the risks that young people are taking and the rights and duties that they have to attend to. In the university, problems are different. The most significant ones referred to the restrictions imposed on the recruitment of teachers in cases of urgent and unappropriate teaching needs, together with the refusal to facilitate accredited teachers the legitimate right to promotion in their work. As far as juvenile offenders are concerned, the two problems that we have considered most important since the Valedor Office are the following. First, the persistent imbalance between the judicial measures imposed on minors and the resources available for their execution. And second, the right of minors to be heard in the administrative and judicial proceedings that affect them. There is an urgent need for the increase of squares, especially those of the reform regime, not so much in the protection regime, as well as for greater provision of psychosocial equipment and more personal and procedural means that axillize and make more effective the means currently available to the Administration of Justice. Special mention deserves lesbian, gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual people. The problems these people face have not ended, so this institution has not completed its work. You can't do it until the day people are not judged either by their identity or their sex or their sexual orientation, whatever it is, but society values and public authorities recognize their rights only in consideration of their different abilities and needs. For now, this is not the case. From the extraordinary report that has been drawn up before this Parliament, we conclude that it is still necessary to promote the constitutional right of all persons not to be discriminated against on grounds of identity or sexual orientation. They ask for it and they have the right to do it. LGTBI people want to be equal human beings in their ontological dignity, which is identical to all, and different at the same time in their ethical dignity, which is different for each one according to his merits, but never for a reason of sexual identity or orientation. Again, they have the right to demand it. Thirdly, they demand that all necessary protocols and measures be established to achieve greater and better information in society in order to destroy negative stereotypes that harm them. And they have the right to ask for it. They also need, fourthly, that the public authorities and the institutions guarantee them effective compliance with the regulations laid down for their protection, together with the recognition of their rights and obligations in the field of work, education and assistance, in equality with the rest of the citizens. And it's reasonable for them to ask for it. And they demand, in short, that among them all we return the lost dignity that was unjustly taken from them. And I think they have the right to ask. Let us now look at the area of economic administration and transport. In the first of these, the problem of taxing pensions received from Germany by returned pensioners has to be highlighted, which has been applied to double taxation. The problem affects the administration of the state, but still, by understanding the justice of the claims of the Greeks, we made a suggestion to the Conseilería de Casenda and, subsequently, to the Ombudsman. Ten days ago, the defender addressed a recommendation to the Secretary of State of Finance to interpret, on the same line as we defend from the Valedoria, the agreement between Spain and Germany, so as to avoid that double taxation. If the recommendation were to prosper, as we expected, pensions paid in Germany would be considered exempt in Spain. We understand that it is justly so. Another important problem is that of citizens' relationships with banking and insurance institutions. This problem had a very broad social dimension, forked in different ways. One of them confuses the so-called ground clauses. It hurts to see that many people have been affected, well because of ignorance, well because of lack of means. We should appeal, and so have done, to the responsibility of the financial institutions and to the principles of fairness and justice that must guide their actions. The position of this institution with regard to information on banking and financial products believes that this should be clear and effective. Financial institutions must use a clear and appropriate language for all persons to whom they are addressed, so they shall ensure that the information they transfer is properly understood by the recipient. There was also an increase in the number of complaints regarding the processing of administrative records. It is of the utmost interest of this institution to urge that procedures be established which do not delay or delay the files. It is necessary to achieve good administration, clear, agile, simple, transparent and effective, because only in this way will the citizens' right to effective protection of their rights be guaranteed. Apart from this, the problems relating to the area of housing and evictions deserve to be addressed. I'm very worried about releases for lack of payment. It continues to be noted that the provision of public-protection housing is unable to meet all applications submitted in the Single Register of Housing Applicants, and that the lists are moved slowly. That's why we understand that there is still room to increase efforts by all administrations. Our concern in that sense led us to sign a partnership agreement in 2015 with the Infrastructure and Living Council, which we will strengthen and extend, extending its object also to the evictions due to lack of rent payment. We are also concerned about helping to disseminate the various programs and the numerous actions implemented by the Board to prevent and mitigate mortgage rejections or those produced due to lack of rent payment, contributing to a large extent to mitigating this problem. I must say, however, that you still do not perceive the good effects that the census of empty dwellings should have, so that the planning of its use is effective and proportionate. The problems arising from the banks in connection with the defiances were also the subject of our concern. In this area, our ability to act is limited, but we do not comply, so we try to serve at least as partners in the problem. I must point out that it has been possible to establish, both with the territorial officials and with those responsible for the management of the offices of the banks and the judges, a reasonably good interview, which has provided optimal results for families affected in many complaints. In this way, not only has a postponement or suspension of the launch, avoiding the removal of the property, but they have also allowed social rents, adherence to the codes of good practice, refinancing, moratoriums, etc. In this respect, we have had good welcome and frank collaboration from the Conseilería de Vivenda, which has met our priorities of extremely serious cases. Another area very sensitive to the activity of the Valador institution is the environment. Most of the complaints in this area are due to noise pollution, i.e. noise production, which are fortunately used to decrease, if not disappear, with our intervention, prior recommendations to many municipalities. In this area, I would like to ask for special collaboration from local authorities, because some municipalities prefer not to attend cost-generating interventions, to propose rates or privatizations for noise measurement, even though these should be done by officials of the authority. We are before a fundamental right of first order, which causes multiple problems. I therefore urge the public administrations to seek the implementation of educational campaigns that make it manifest that the right to leisure and entertainment, in addition to the owners of bars and leisure venues to gain a legitimate profit for their work, should not come into conflict with the right of citizens to rest and to acceptable limits of noise. In this same area, we are increasing faster responses to requests for environmental information, because many of them are late. Apart from this, the problems of fishing and the rural environment deserve special mention. I am referring, in particular, to the problem of fishing for the environment and the milk sector. In relation to both, this institution has exercised a mediator function. As a result of the meetings held with the representatives of the siege at the autonomous and state level, since they both have shared competence, the following proposals have been formalised. First. Condemnment of the overfishing sanction carried out by the Acronga vessels in 2015. Establishment of base quota for vessels with lower fishing opportunities and quota reserve for Galicia in zone 9A. As far as the dairy sector is concerned, it has been possible to apply in contracts with the dairy industries prices and purchasing volumes, to encourage cooperative movement in the sector and to promote the identification of the origin of milk and milk products to improve consumer information about the country of origin of products and thus to be able to advertise the product in Greece. However, none of these two sectors were fully satisfied with the results achieved, so we must continue to help achieve a more appropriate response. Some of the significant issues that have entered the People's Valedor institution during 2015, it is now appropriate to make a small balance sheet. My responsibility is to defend the rights of the administrators, who complain about what they consider to be inadequate attention to their rights by the Administration. From this perspective, work is not done, nor can it ever be, because as some problems are solved, others who demand our interest will arise. There are undoubtedly many problems that should be solved and I will not be able to be satisfied with the work of the institution until these are solved. Every time a well-founded complaint goes to the institution and remains unresolved, I understand that I personally have failed. However, it would be unfair to hide that there are improvements, mostly located in the area of social services and transparency. It was also made an important effort to try to improve administrative processes by providing them with transparency and by trying to avoid an opaque functioning of the Public Administration, which must be – as its name indicates – in the service of all citizens. Likewise, I consider it important to collaborate, in general, on behalf of administrations, some of them - such as Health and Living - that are especially sensitive to my requests and to the essential priorities in demand. It remains, however, much to improve, to do so I do not ask them for a blank check, and that is why I will devote the last words of my intervention to exposing my future project. I want to get a more sensitive, open institution, closer to citizens' problems and more effective in my interaction with public authorities. I look forward to achieving faster and simpler procedures, a way of communicating with more transparent citizens. I want these guys to feel that the valet is to protect them, and that even if they can't always do it, they'll always be at their disposal to attend to their cases and try to solve them. I trust mediation and interlocution, I also trust law education, understanding that every right involves a duty, and if it is lacking from the latter, the first, the right, it will empty itself of content, and it may become abusive. I also believe in the culture of peace and the need to empathize with people and their problems. I'm sure you'll understand who you want to understand, I've learned that from my people, from my land, and from my older people. But I also know that there are people who don't want to understand each other, and in that case the problems will not be solved by speaking, but by complaining. And I'm also willing to do it when necessary. Meanwhile, I call for the cooperation of all, the two citizens, to use the Valador institution to claim what they need. But I insist that they do it in the sense of justice, that sense that it is not necessary to study in the faculties of laws, because it is in the nature of each human being. And to the public authorities, I ask them to help me be more sensitive to the needs of people and faster to respond to the multiple requests sent to them. In return, I offer, once again, the commitment of my work and permanent dedication, as well as my best effort to know the real problems and needs of those who ask for my help. Undoubtedly, the Greek people have problems exercising their rights, like any other people, but they have a human capital capable of confronting them. I trust them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u37	Thank you very much, dear. The first vice president would accompany her. The turn of parliamentary groups to set the position. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u38	Good morning. Good morning, President. First of all, thank the valet for her report and her work. The valet represents an institution to which people and collectives whose rights are violated. Among the functions of this institution is, first of all, on its website, to ensure the fulfilment of human rights. In his presence in the Committee on Petitions, he pointed out to the valet the ambitious action programme of the Council of Galicia in the face of the challenges. I am not surprised that the spokesperson for the People's Party expressed satisfaction with the report in his address. But with all the respect that the High Commissioner and this Parliament deserve, I do not share that assessment, nor the valuation of the valet or the assessment of the spokesperson of the People's Party in the committee's hearing. Anne Case and Angus Deaton – this last Nobel Prize in Economics in 2015 and both Princeton professors – in a recent study in the United States, where it is reflected that the mortality rate of middle-aged white men and women was shot in the last fifteen years for alcohol abuse, drugs, calmers and suicides, had to coin a new term to express this trend, they were called death out of despair. And it has a strong direct link to the economic problems caused by public policy and the lack of solutions to the loss of jobs produced by the economy of globalization and neoliberalism. I repeat it again, death by despair. Some recognized prestige professionals have seen the need to coin a term to define a new trend that causes people to die every year without even touching them to die, victims of job insecurity, inequality, poverty, lack of expectations, hopelessness, institutional and political abandonment. Well, if we moved this data to Galicia, the number of suicides in 2015 was 321, according to the Galician Mental Health Movement almost 1 a day, which makes us leaders at state level. And so far the administrations and the government are elucidating their responsibilities in this problem, a problem of the most important of public health. And, ladies and gentlemen, suicide deaths have a lot to do with the ruin of families, unemployment, precarious employment, cuts in social services and evictions. With poverty, they also have to do with labour poverty, energy poverty, child poverty and the poverty of retirees and retirees; all issues widely dealt with in this Chamber. That is, much to do with the austerity policies applied by the Government of neoliberal ideology, which cause the impoverishment of the working class and the dismantling of the primary sector of this country. With regard to the rates of inequality, what do you tell them they don't know anymore? Gini index, increasing since 2007; poverty risk rates, according to IGE data, range from 14.63 in 2007 to 16.41 in 2014, when the series is finished; constantly rising for all age groups, with special impact on women, children and children. I don't think it's to congratulate or congratulate, on the contrary, this high number of suicides, and the previous data should be the object of extraordinary study for their prevention and, if possible, for the disappearance of this statistical data that makes the suicide leader of our community, Galicia. A goal for the institution that the valet represents, because we're talking about two fundamental human rights: the right to life and the right to a roof under which to settle. I appreciate the work of the valet, also its valuations and its requirements. Requirements which, by the way, are not met by the Administration and the Government, in many respects. It is impossible to stop in a detailed and exhaustive reflection, given the extension of the report and the limited time available to us in this process, but I will stop at some that I consider relevant. For example, among the many recommendations that appear in this last report, and that the valet has quoted again today, is "the urgent need to implement a plan to eliminate asbestos-containing materials in educational use buildings." Well, this honourable Member here has tabled in the last Committee on Education and Culture a non-legislative proposal which brought up this demand from the valedora, but which was rejected by the majority of the People's Party, in a committee, in addition, held after the publication of the report. Not to mention the Health Council, warned on eleven occasions of its obligation to respond to the demands under aware of its hostile declaration, far from what has not been reached in this institution since 2007. The management of waiting lists, the closure of beds, the cuts in staff and resources concludes with the valet – and I quote textually: "the interpretation of the Health Insurance Act, which has been in force since 2014, leaves no doubt as to the maximum waiting times that must be demanded." But the practical application of it has not achieved its full effectiveness, the number of patients and existing resources hinder the full scope of this right. If the Government party takes note, as in the Committee on Petitions the spokesperson of the People's Party in its intervention, it must write the way a god with the crooked rows. Because in my brief experience as a parliamentarian in this institution, which is the Galician Parliament, the Government party rejected each and every one of the opposition groups' initiatives to cushion cuts in public education, public health care and social services. There is no more to look at Parliament's page, the data, the data are, but they can be the object of different readings; in politics everything is the color of the glass you look at, as happens on many occasions with the election results. Thus, the valet interprets the increase from 24,000 to 46,000 – approximately – the claims received by the institution's office as a symptom of a better knowledge of the institution, a greater democratic maturity of citizenship, when for many it means a poor functioning of administrations, an increase in the violation of rights and a symptom that the living conditions of citizenship were the worst during 2015. Anyway – I insist – I congratulate the valet, among other things, on the 45 – I think – paralysed evictions in 2015, among other things. I share your criterion of prioritizing the qualitative aspect of your work, many small people, in small places, doing small things, can change the world –di Galeano –. And so it happens to the victims of England, small people, small people who also try to stop the high-voltage line that destroys the straw of Catasos or the deterioration of Eiros' cave, who got help from the valet and who got their recommendations accepted, while in Parliament we had to regret the rejection of initiatives in this regard. That's why, as small people who are, I thank you for your work, Valuable lady. As honourable Member, let me say, this Parliament, which must bear the blame, is unable to comply with the Popular Legislative Initiative, which you mention in your report, with measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty. Faced with a procedure that I don't understand, asking for appearances without the same results, the only comfort is that I know that popular legislative initiatives do not go down to the end of the legislation and that they will follow its procedure, which I hope will be with good luck. And I also worry about school harassment and violation of LGTBI collective rights. The commissioner is of the opinion – and so he moved it – that adequate and equal education would be the best tool to banish our society from these phobias and violent behaviors directed against the different and the weakest. Behaviors specific to the power structures of the heteropatriarchal system. That's why I use – it's one of my last interventions – to insist that we don't have to be afraid to view the progressive implementation of a co-educational education in Galicia as an educational tool, beyond mixed education, and whose bases lie in the recognition of the potential and individualities of children and children, regardless of their sex.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u40	Coeducar means – I'm done, I'm sorry – from the equality of values, from the equality of people. Well, I'm done with a question, if you'll excuse me. Thank you. Well, I'm done. Don't you think it's our job, as representatives of the institutions that aim to protect the interests of citizens and their well-being, to extreme the demands to ensure the best social protection system? May the same be a right and not merely existentialism? To demand the excellence of the state of well-being, to ensure maximum diligence, equity, solidarity and redistribution of wealth, that no one has to join new terms to refer to situations that make us so fragile and shame us as a democratic society, to work among all, so that not one person dies of despair. Thank you very much for your attention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u41	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u42	Thank you, President. Thanks to Mrs Parga, too, for her presentation, and again after the Committee on Petitions. We have already moved on to the same concerns that this group has maintained on what we consider to be an excess of confidence in compliance by the Autonomic Administration, which is given on occasion validity to the good purposes when the reality is that we have no excessively good record of compliance, of the recommendations, not only punctual – which are certainly more effective in timely cases – but general, because the social and economic situation is repeated over the past few years, and no real action is being taken to reverse it. We are also concerned that this institution – which we believe has to be impartial and objective – makes some assessments that we have already moved and which are reflected in the report itself, commenting that the crisis itself has made budgets difficult, that despite the difficulties the social needs shares have increased, which corrective measures have been put in place to alleviate the crisis declared in Spain. They are valuable judgments that constitute a danger of historical revisionism when we are talking about that the current crisis, obviously – as this group understands – could have avoided, or at least avoided much of its consequences, given that much of the current situation is the result of corruption, illegitimate indebtedness and speculation with the funds of all of us. It must be remembered that corruption in Spain is 7.500 million euros, that the fiscal amnesty of the People's Party has led to €2.800 million losses and that tax fraud is €90 billion. They are therefore amounts that are unwarranted to take into account that they could replace all the social cuts that, on many occasions, are also the result of complaints being transferred to the institution itself. We must remember, too, that in no case did we make any kind of budgetary effort. The autonomous budget has lost 2,622 million euros since 2009, and the social areas have been cut into 1 billion euros. So zero effort and, of course, we should have – and should also have the institution – zero convenience. I understand that you don't have to go through these aspects of government either, but we would also ask you not to do the opposite; that is, the positive assessments of the alleged economic effort we consider to be alien to an institution, as is yours, which is of a character, obviously objective and impartial. As we come into this area, we have already transferred some concerns during the education committee. It seems to us that there is a statement going on in this same line, which says that some educational organizations have also shown their rejection of LOMCE. You did not respond in the commission – I said at that time – there were not a few, but all the educational organizations who opposed the implementation of LOMCE, trade unions, Confapa, public education collectives and all the opposition parties, both here and in the central government. But given this consideration, we're going to the most complex problems in this area. It seems to us, the truth, that the eating problem is a very worrying problem, and that it is not a minor problem, because it affected – as my colleague Ramón Vázquez told me – 20% of the schools in Galicia. During the report, and in the committee itself, the granting of another company was justified by the urgency of rejuvenation of services, every time the children and children of all these schools were being given poor food. But I was wondering, and it didn't move us, if we wouldn't have to do an assessment on the indication of returning to direct management with products of proximity, which is what this parliamentary group has defended, and with an educational aspect of what food is, because what we're seeing is that none of these indirect management models are giving any kind of positive fruit. AGE agrees – and has denounced it from the beginning – with the shortcomings of attention to the diversity of the student with special educational needs. We are concerned that the report itself agrees that the measures taken by the Board are insufficient, and we understand that, in addition to the increase in the number of teachers, who have suffered a lot of cuts in recent years, there are other professionals who should be implemented in pedagogy, in hearing and in language, and we understand that it is quite serious that these deficiencies continue without covering themselves so many years after the beginning of the cuts. As for social services, we remember that very important cuts have been made in recent years, and there are several relevant issues. It reflects in the report the situation in the Souto de Leixa, because there were many complaints about the use of the therapeutic glass; the other day we discussed it in Commission 5a and the parents and mothers continue to denounce the abandonment of a centre, and also that this use has not yet been effectively done. I don't know if in this respect we understand there will be future reports, because they seem to have moved complaints back to their institution for the scarce staff and for the deterioration of the center since 2010, and the reality is that they are very concerned about the circumstances in which their sons and daughters are being treated and treated. You were planning the disability card recommendation on the grade, which appears to have not yet taken action on that recommendation. And I don't know what you think or what you might have to do with the poor social services card, because here we were told on several occasions that there would be a similar to what we have for the Galician Health Service, regarding social services, but this card didn't start, I don't know if it had any relationship, would it be complementary or what would be the institution's recommendation in that case? We also welcome with concern the perpetuity of complaints about dependency, but we are concerned about some conclusions, since some measures are understood to have been taken. You referred here to the lack of squares in the homes of older people and dependent people themselves, and we moved in this Parliament multiple complaints and the difficulty of the situation in which public residences are living, and the difficulty of competition with private centres for the absence of human and material means, and also that persistence of the increase of co-ops. We can't be buyers in these terms, because we have to remember that, even though you say there are fewer complaints about dependency, last year they died in Galicia 1,000 people without receiving the benefit they already recognized. We understand, too, our complaints, and we feel them reflected, in the report on the problems arising from the elimination of the 065 Service by the Galician Board, that transport service for people with functional and cognitive diversity, because right now – as we denounced at the time – implies direct problems when moving to services or activities that are not – say – central – are not transfers to day centers, by setting an example, are essential for people in their development of a normal life. With regard to public health, we rejoice that you recognize that we must return to universality within public health. This group defends the derogation from Decree No. 16/2012, although we do not share that – I have transferred it to the commission – that the arrivals for the payment of medicines are proportional. We understand that an equal contribution to incomes between EUR 18,000 and 100,000, obviously, is not proportional. As it is not that in Galicia, where pensions are the lowest in the state, you have to pay pensioners now between a ten to 40 slots when they didn't provide for their medicines. We welcome with concern complaints of non-compliance with the Health Benefits Act. We share them, obviously we did not comply with the previous law on waiting times, and we have a problem because the Health Council constantly denies that there are problems with waiting and obviously justifies closing beds in the summer months, also with this lack of concern for waiting. As far as the rejections are concerned, I have also transferred you to the committee that has only 45 redeployments by the Galician Union to 18,000 evictions, and that we understand that it is not to please itself, and that the rental aid promoted by the Autonomic Administration is only 1% of the people in poverty. Regarding the situation of LGTBI people, well, obviously they don't want to be human like the others...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u44	And – I have already said – it is very worrying that, despite its recommendations, Law 12/2014 is not being complied with, that the measures of awareness-raising campaigns or training of public professionals are not even taken. I am moving that, however, we find it worrying that the absence of complaints about inequality between women and men, which equally denotes a low concern or lack of knowledge of the use of the institution, when we have terrible data on violations and even the breaches of human rights for women in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Valuator of the people and the people of your team who accompany you in the plenary of this Parliament, good days and many thanks for the exhibition that she has again made us here and the evaluations of her report. I have no intention of repeating the debate that we have already produced in the Committee on Petitions, just a week ago, when you came to us to report on your report, but if I may, given the extent of your report, the extent of the analyses that are being carried out in your report, simply on the basis of those data that you are approaching us, on the basis of the data drawn up by previous reports from the institution of the People's Valedor, allow me to make some assessments and, to conclude, some proposals from my parliamentary group in this plenary which puts an end to this legislation and which, I think, is the time to make a balance. If allowed, I would divide into three fundamental areas – to synthesize for lack of time – the complaints received by the institution of the People's Valedor: on the one hand, the complaints that refer to the deficiencies that citizens and citizens, that the people of Greece, perceive in the benefits that we should give them through public services. There are three fundamental areas that repeat over the various reports, with percentages of complaints in relative terms very similar throughout this period, over the last four years, which are those referred to in health care, education and social services, in which there is a certain connection or correlation over the various years as citizens perceive that the budget cuts in public services affect the quality of the provision of these public services, which in many cases also affect legally recognised rights. Even by the People's Valdoria on many occasions it became manifest as it violated the educational law when some schools lacked the teachers and teachers specialists who had been prescribed by the law in the various educational stages. In this report you raise a question which is also particularly serious, both from a legal point of view and from a human rights perspective, and that is how, at last, there is a recognition by an institution of something we have seen denouncing for a long time, and that is that the right to universality has been broken in health benefits, and that is made manifest through its report. So, four years later, at the end of this legislation, I think we can conclude in an objective way, simply based on the historical data of the subsequent reports of the valet and of the former valuer of the people, that public services suffer when there are budget cuts; that mantra that it is possible to do more with less is not true. Less resources, less personnel, less hospital beds, never, never, ever pay better attention to citizenship, better attention to public service users, and of course they turn into cutting rights. There is another area of concern that moves over time through complaints made to the People's Valedor, which is what we could define as complaints about attention to the most disadvantaged people in society or more vulnerable by different circumstances. In this area, we could include complaints that refer to the deprotection suffered by minors on many occasions, which has already referred to the valuator of the people in their intervention, and, of course, in that field that there is growing sensitivity in recent years. We see more and more increasing concern not only about the neglect of people, children and children, not only about improving family hospitality in the face of institutionalization, but also about the increased concern about new dangers that arise about our minors, associated with child harassment, with all kinds of mobbling, and even with harassment and mobbing related to new technologies. In that sense, we want, once again, to applaud the report made by the People's Valley on new technologies and the harassment of minors. Also in this area of attention to the weakest people, I would like to place special emphasis on the attention of people with disabilities, which is a full chapter in this report by the People's Valedor focused on that issue. It had already happened in previous years, but it is particularly striking that complaints concerning issues which have been the subject of great debate in this Parliament, such as the issue of San Francisco in Vigo and the Aspanas Occupational Centre in Ourense, and unfortunately, I do not think that from the political point of view of the matter, have been given the right answer, so they have had to resort to their institution to try to secure their rights. Finally, to finish with what we could consider this chapter of attention to the most vulnerable or weaker people, let me talk about dependence. In previous years, in particular two years, it has been the subject of debate in this Parliament on many occasions, and the report by the People's Valator of that year has certainly been an element that we have used very much, and positively, to move forward in that area, the risk-related problem, with the delays that were taking place at the time of the processing of the risk. Fortunately, this situation today – at least today – seems to be sudden, but what this year's report of the People's Valedora shows is that we have a large subject pending, the Government has a large subject pending, and it's the one related to care for dependent people in different areas, both in terms of the lack of care facilities, the various shoulders, the help for caregivers. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to leave a data; a fact that should make us not only reflect, but all of us, and all of us, focus our work on the next few days in solving this situation. In Galicia, in 2015, there are 65,495 dependents who have recognized the right to a benefit. It's 65,500 according to the People's Valator's Report. On the same day, there are only 41,823 people, those who have recognized the right to a benefit, who are actually receiving that benefit. So there are more than 24,000 dependents, with a recognized benefit, who are not perceiving it. Finally – it has been a very bad time – there is another area to which complaints are historically addressed to the People's Valley, which are those that have to do with transparency, that this year they are particularly based on public employment and in which we could call the exercise of fundamental rights, such as the exercise of access to a decent housing, energy supply and people's rights to banking abuse or sometimes even government abuse, as in this case was the pension of returned emigrants. I've already made a request in the commission that I can't, for lack of time, repeat here, but I strongly ask you to keep moving on that path. And I would like to finish, ladies and gentlemen, by taking a look. It began this legislation in the Greek Parliament by standing on the People's Valley and on other Greek institutions the CORA Report. The report of the Government of the State that I wanted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u48	...through that so-called rationalization, among other things, that we eliminated the institution of the People's Valedor. It ends with this legislation with which this Parliament has strengthened the figure of the People's Valuer – from the valet in this case, what happens is that the law continues to call it a valet, they will have to modify it in the next legislation to adapt it to reality – and attributing more powers to patients' rights, to health care, to ensure the rights of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u50	...LGTBI – finished, Madam President – and finally in the Transparency Act. I ask you, Valuating Lady of the People, that, if all these powers which in the name of the Greek people have attributed to you this Parliament, with the means of which you have at your disposal are unable to fulfil them properly, do not hesitate to raise your voice to make this Parliament and all the institutions that give you sufficient means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u52	...that these competences will not be left on wet paper. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Blanco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Happy days, vice-validator and all his team. First of all, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we would like to thank the honourable Member once again for his presence in this Parliament and for thanking the whole institution for the work it is carrying out every day in the attention of the citizens' demands. From this job you cannot draw quantitative-type conclusions, but it contains information with high qualitative value in which are many of the daily problems of citizens. We want from this rostrum to congratulate the new team in front of Valador, just as we did the other day in the commission, for that ambition of making Valador an institution that is more open and close to the citizen, because it's the first time Valador goes through the territory with the aim of getting to know a tool that serves as a channel mediating many of his problems. Surely it is not by chance the increase in 52% of care actions over the previous year, and not that it concentrates in the second half of the year, something will have to see that work. We also need to highlight, and we therefore congratulate this new team, the improvement of efficiency in file resolution. But, as I said the other day in the Committee on Petitions, I also want to make it clear here that it seems to us that the most expensive report of recent years to the Autonomic Administration. I'm telling you with the greatest respect. I do not say that the report itself is buying, but that sometimes in the conclusions we fail the critical spirit on many subjects which, by reading the whole report calmly, if we appreciate in many of its sections. Despite the degree of acceptance and the Government's commitment to the institution's recommendations, we believe it is important to assess the outcome of these commitments later. It's an impossible task to summarize here all the information on the more than 1,000 pages containing the report, so I'll try to be synthetic in things that seem most relevant to us. As for housing, it seems important to us to acknowledge Article 47 of the Constitution, claiming that housing constitutes not only a right but a basic necessity, and a right whose satisfaction must be guaranteed by public authorities. In this regard, in the report the problems raised continue to reflect the serious current problems, such as deficiencies and delays in official housing; aid for the acquisition and rehabilitation of dwellings; waste disposal of habitual housing, which remains one of the greatest tears of our society. And in view of the usual discourse by the Government of the Union, which often acts as if we were in Alice's country of wonders, we see in the report how it remains one of the main problems, because unfortunately, during 2015 there were still 35% more complaints than in 2014. And it is very gratifying to reflect on this in the report, since it states that passive behaviour on the part of no public power is not admissible in the face of the violation of this social right. No crisis situation would justify the absence of public policies focused on favouring access to a home to those people who need it most. On the contrary, it is in times of crisis when more than ever those policies are absolutely necessary. It is also enlightening the reflection that is made when it is said that the achievement of social goals consumes resources. So, you find these other allocations that may be more about efficiency is, without a doubt, a political choice, something that we have always kept from this group, when we say that, despite the scarcity of resources, these are the priorities that mark the policies of a government, and we already know what the policies of the People's Party are. As for education, we're seeing problems similar to those of last year and before this year. In the case of admission of students, once again we see problems in the delimitation of areas of influence, and as a large number of minors do not get a square in the center chosen as the first option. According to the report, 838 children did not get a place in 2015. Also this year there are again problems arising from planning and setting up new educational centres, as well as the problem of the state in which many school buildings are found. And of course, the problem of repeated deficiencies in the service of school lunches also arrived in the Valedor. From our group we have insisted on this very serious problem, and the Council has again demonstrated its usual argument of opposition catastrophe, but we see it perfectly explained in this report. As far as industry is concerned, an important paragraph in this report is that of energy poverty, defined here as the difficulty or inability to maintain housing in adequate conditions of temperature, as well as the availability of other essential energy services at a reasonable price. We therefore appreciate that Valador refers to measures that prevent social exclusion, such as the definition of vulnerable energy consumers or the formalization of agreements with traders to avoid cuts in supply. As for agriculture, livestock and fisheries, in this sense the Valador report reflects the mediation work done by Valador on the issue of the siege and the dairy sector, which we thank, although we cannot see that the action of the Galician Union was not on the side of the sector. That's why we have to focus on Valador's lack of criticism of the Government of the United States. We miss the voice of the sectors, as I said the other day. In fact, what you said here today about the dairy sector is the version of the Council, and this group honestly considers it false. As for social services, it is no accident – as you have said before – that complaints related to aid for social exclusion or the risk of falling into it are the most numerous, and, as the Valador says, they require an immediate solution, since, if the intervention is delayed, they lose their meaning; and here they manifest delays in solving. As for Risga, it is said in the report that the situation has improved, but from this group we continue to see a huge shortage in resolving requests for social assistance, such as delays in concessions, restoration after work, disagreements in revisions, etc. And it's said that the problems basically respond to the lack of development of the law, and in that we also agree, we said it, too, last year. Galicia is in the lead on the waiting lists – as is recognised in the report – in the queue on the per-person benefit ratio, in addition to the problems with the payers and the insufficient service squares for the dependency. As far as work is concerned, although it is an area of lesser impact in the work of what is the Valedor's day-to-day work, it is noteworthy, due to the high level of unemployment, that the report points out that complaints about delays occur in the payment of scholarships and aid to unemployed persons, since the Valador considers it unreasonable or justifiable that these people have to wait in April to collect aid approved the previous year, and ending the formative actions many months earlier. With regard to health care, factors such as the gradual aging of the population and the increase in diseases with expensive treatments make it necessary to increase health expenditure. Moreover, the economic adjustments fostered by the economic crisis and by the cuts made by the Government of the State and the United States cause conflicts to grow to maintain basic benefits. This – as is indicated in the report – must be added to the recent legislative reforms that brought about user claims, which have reduced the list of benefits they have previously enjoyed. And as we have said over the past few years, and as we also see in Valador's own activity, they have generated a significant increase in the claims. And here we also have to welcome the performance guides that are made from the Valedor, such as the management of the waiting lists with complex and transparent criteria. In addition to the point of reference to pharmaceutical co-op, in the sense that the loss to which the most disadvantaged groups are subjected is manifest, as well as in the management of health centres and services, the improvement of physical spaces and the provision of material resources. And here too, from the Socialist Group, we want to add the importance of maintaining public health services, which – to our criteria – are paying the consequences of the introduction of new management models, as we saw, for example, at the Vigo hospital. As for justice, we only want to add, from the Socialist Group, something that we have already insisted on last year, which is the importance of expressing the lack of official data that are reliable from judgments handed down in English and the almost non-existent use of Greek in the field of justice. There is no report, no data, since 2009, and then it was that 3 percent of the judgments were given in English and 96.5 in Spanish. As far as the issue of minors is concerned, we agree, too, with the Valador's concern in this regard. We also highlight the recommendation that you make of the importance of introducing changes in reception programs, understanding the priority of family solutions on residential and, therefore, focusing on economic support for families to avoid separating children from their family nuclei. As far as linguistic culture and politics are concerned, this area in the Valedor Report looks to us -- if I may, as I said the other day, too -- a little too self-congratulating. In other words, we share the importance of safeguarding cultural assets, but we have to express the dislosure of the Union when more than 30% of cultural interests are in a state of misconception. And even if the optimistic Valador is shown by the new Law on Cultural Heritage, when, as you know, he broke with the consensus existing in this matter and even – as we denounce all opposition groups – it is a reversal in what protection refers to, so we cannot share this optimism, just remember that in culture the budget of this Government has been reduced by 56%. As for language, we also lack a more critical attitude in the Valedor report in a vital area, which has been first attacked in recent history by the so-called "Decree of Plurilingualism" and the constant decline in resources devoted to language promotion, 70% less, whose effects are that today, Galicia is the only language in the Spanish state in which its speakers are diminished. We also find it important, in this sense of the information society, that the concern shown by the Valador in relation to the work to be carried out with regard to the awareness of young people and girls in the use of new technologies and their role as an instrument for the exercise of gender violence, as well as in discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, because, as the valet said in her speech, this subject was an extraordinary report by the institution. And it's important to continue working on the guarantee of these inviolable rights and non-discrimination, but we would also like to add in this regard the importance of fighting against gender violence and equality policies, ending with the highest female unemployment, the wage gap and non-equality between maternity and paternity permits. And I'm done, thanking you again for the work of the institution and its presence here. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to all the lords. I also greet the honourable Member of the people and his entire team for the preparation of the report and for the presentation of it before the plenary session of this House. It is now up to me to make the assessment of this report, and in that sense I have to stress that the groups of parliamentary opposition have just carried out this assessment by resorting to a very proper remedy in these cases, which is the use of that rhetorical figure of the synecdoque, that troupe which consists of taking part in the whole, and which has great rhetorical force, because it allows to significantly increase the strength of the message, but which can hardly be extrapolated to the political debate. It cannot be extrapolated because its persuasive force derives from its simplicity, reduces the complexity of the set by eliminating what is distracting or what is interesting, and therefore gives a vision of distorted, distorted or interested truth. That is what the groups of the parliamentary opposition have just done, and we understand that what needs to be done is an objective and impartial appraisal of the report. The first aspect of this report is, precisely, a positive aspect: the fact that the Valedor institution has to move in a very difficult balance, where an excess of favor with the public authorities can turn into an irrelevant institution and an excess of protagonistism can turn into a disturbing institution. Being an institution that has no authority, on the other hand, it is enjoying a greater root in citizenship, a greater authorship, thus demonstrating the fact of the number of people who agree to claim the institution. If the citizenry goes to the institution, logically, it does – it will leave other ratings that they want to do – because it has confidence in the institution and also in its work. I root that confirms, on the other hand, the fact that – as reflected in the report – there is a notorious increase in institutional respect to the decisions of the People's Valedor, which have allowed many of the problems that have been brought to justice by this intervention with public administrations. And also, as it shows from that root, the acceptance of the mediating function of the People's Value itself in many of the subjects, which also allowed acquiesced and important resolutions. In the material sphere, it is true that it is impossible to make a global valuation, but on the other hand it is not necessary. The various subjects which make up the report have already been discussed in the Committee on Petitions. On the other hand, the specific and specific complaints of citizenship are contained in the report itself for consideration by those who wish to observe them. What's right now is to do the valuation, and we all understand that the partial valuation of parliamentary groups cannot be done. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a shocking reference, the Legionaries of Julius Caesar used to refer, in a tone of shock, to their boss saying that he was the husband of all the women and the wife of all the husbands. Also in the case of the People's Valuer, we need to examine the two fundamental parts of it: on the one hand, the examination of the effects on the functioning of the Administration, which obviously reflects the report, but on the other hand, the examination of a matter of exceptional importance, which is the reaction of the public authorities to those warnings made by the People's Valuer Report; because they are ultimately those who express the voice of citizenship in the face of the actions of those public authorities. The relationship of the euvas has already made them the opposition, so let me refer to the other aspect of the question, which is the reaction of the Board to that question. And the reaction of Together is a quick reaction, a reaction in many cases effective and a powerful reaction. It is true that it reflects the report that the largest number of complaints refer to areas of social services, health, public employment and municipal policy issues. In the area of social services, it's true that it's the one who has the greatest number of complaints, but it must also be nuanced that as a result of many collective complaints in some of the matters. But it also reflects the Valuer's Report on the Board's reaction to this matter, expressed primarily in the rapid and diligent performance of the Social Services Council, which makes it one of the areas that has the greatest margin of improvement, probably as a result of budgetary increases in this matter. In the area of health, it is true that there are also deficiencies, but the report also reveals the circumstances of a few complaints in matters that have so far come as to constitute a mantra of the opposition, such as the question of the pharmaceutical coke or the vaccine of the meningitis. And it also points out how it has indeed greatly improved in recent times the acting of the board in this area of health. In public employment, it is true – so the report reflects – that the crisis situation increases the concern for access to a position in the Public Service as a means of achieving a stable job. But it is also true – he made it clear in his speech here today that the valet itself – that this is one of the issues that requires very special attention in the area of transparency. And precisely in this sense, it has to be nuanced as the legislative reform which has recently been carried out in this House makes the People's Valedor have greater powers in this matter, placing it in front of the Transparency Commission, which represents an important confidence in its role in this matter. Similarly, it reflects the report's other positive actions by the Galician Union. As regards housing, for example, it is noted that the legislative measures taken by the German Government in relation to people at risk of losing housing are significantly more ambitious than those taken in other autonomous communities. The improvement of protocols in matters of discrimination against minors, LGBTI or equality campaigns is also seen. I mean, there's a determined action by the Board. And if there is strong evidence in this regard, it is sufficient to observe the reaction of some of the parliamentary groups speaking of the report's condescension or speaking of the people's Party's voicer's condescension in relation to the Committee on Petitions. Look, ladies and gentlemen, there's no condescension or favor, we're perfectly aware that the People's Value Expresses the Complaints of Citizenship, but we're also perfectly aware that the report does not favor anyone, nor does it, nor does it, against anyone. The report makes it possible to reflect the voice of citizenship, and the voice of citizenship, if we compare it – as was done by the spokeswoman of the Block, Mrs. Paz Franco – with the reports of previous years in relation to the present, it allows us to see a transcendental issue in the public administration's reaction to the warnings of the report, when in previous stages it was ignored the warnings of the report, and it was also about killing the messenger by attempting to disqualify the institution and the person who exercised it; it is true that in sin it was penance. For example, in the 2008 report, the People's Valedor warned of a serious social alarm situation in relation to the provision of public services. The Bipartite Union of then ignored that warning, in 2009 it lost the election. However, the report clearly notes that the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo's Board of Governors reacts promptly to the warnings of the People's Valedor Report, taking measures to reduce social conflict and that they are raised in reports of previous years, for example, with issues such as the control of pharmaceutical spending, the introduction of arbitration in the preferences or attention to a greater number of dependent people. It was achieved to pacify issues that were once extraordinarily conflicting, such as matters of justice, environmental matters or language matters. And he managed, therefore, in a crisis situation, to draw out the situation of social alarm and that this alarm situation is not reflected in any case in the People's Valedor's Report, which more accurately reflects the opposite, which is the respect of the Union to the institution, the prestige of it and the desire to convert the institution to the counterpoint of the power of the administration, indispensable for the citizen's dialogue. We end up making reference to our valuation and fruit of taking the People's Valator's Report not how it takes the rubber to the lamp, that is, to lean on it and not to see the light. We want to see the light to make an institution better by taking your warnings into consideration. And we ended by congratulating the valetress, not with a plan of favor, but of finding reality by her sensitivity and mediation on important issues by contributing to the subject of minors, by the interesting interpretation that she made in the Committee on Petitions of the Law in accordance with the specific circumstances of people and, in particular, by the new air that seems to bring to this institution. If we are able to do, as it is marked as an objective, an institution that is an element of cooperation between public administrations and citizenship, if we are able to achieve an institution that is able to empathize with people and if we are able to make the report more reflect trends than numbers, we will undoubtedly have made a better institution, which is what we all want. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u57	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to legislative texts. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u58	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are kept to the full. The President of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr Agustín Baamonde, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u59	Well, thank you very much. The project referred to by the Presidency, so as to amend Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, was entered into the Register of the Parliament of Galicia on 13 May 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at the meeting of May 18 of the same year 2016, admitted to the process of this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the articulation presented were a total of thirty: three from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, eight from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, sixteen from the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galicia of the Left and three from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. Commission 1 has designated the following rapporteurs and holders: by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Javier Dorado Soto; by the Galician Parliamentary Group of Socialists, Mr. Abel Losada Álvarez; by the Galician Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block, Mrs. María do Carmen Adán Villamarín; by the Galga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Xavier Ron Fernández; and by the Mixed Group, Mrs. María Consuelo Martínez García. The Constitutive Session of the Meeting took place on 13 June 2016 and, after successive meetings, the Committee prepared the corresponding report, which was put to the debate and vote at the meeting held on 1 July of this year, and was approved with all the recommendations made by the Committee, to tell me whose approval today corresponds to the plenary of this House, if this is the appropriate estimate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u60	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Mixed Group did not present amendments to this amendment to the Law of the Vigo Metropolitan Area because I am probably a vigue – I have no village – I am a forceful for many generations, of the few people in Galicia who do not have a village of reference, but I have looked at what Vigo cost the city of Vigo to move forward, what it cost him to make progress and the lack of institutional support he has always had. That's why I value it very much that the municipalities in the Metropolitan Area had reached an agreement that would enable us to move forward in the consolidation of the area by improving public services and the quality of life of its neighbours and neighbours. The 14 most populous cities in the state are Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia, Seville, Zaragoza, Malaga, Murcia, Palma de Mallorca, As Palmas, Bilbao, Alacante, Córdoba, Valladolid and – number 14– Vigo. The first thirteen cities, besides being provincial capitals, one is state capital and several are capitals of their respective autonomys. And Bilbao, who is the only one who is not, is the head of the Basque Country and exercises absolute leadership. So the only one who never had a special consideration, not being provincial capital, was the city of Vigo. The case of Vigo is unique and special within the state, there are only three territories where the capital has more population than another city in the province, but in no case does the huge difference of Vigo. One is Toledo, where the largest population resides in Talavera da Reina; another Cadiz, with the largest city Jerez de la Frontera; and another is in Asturias, Oviedo, which is the capital, while Xixón has the largest population and is the economic motor of the autonomous community. Perhaps that's why Vigo's population has always had a sense of abandonment on the part of administrations, both of the state and of autonomy; high-speed train and private hospital are examples of the latest abuses of the Administration with the city. Vigo is the most populated Greek city, and in the last 100 years it has experienced a great population growth, being the economic and social motor of a large metropolitan area that houses some 465,000 people. Most of his population, in addition, is at work. The Vigo Metropolitan Area is the most industrial zone in Galicia, the economic motor of the Galicia-North region of Portugal. The latest data from the IGE, corresponding to the year 2012, indicate that over 6,181 million euros of GDP were generated in the Coruña, which means €25,480 per capita. In Vigo, with more GDP generated, 7. billion – almost 1 billion more – the wealth generated per capita is lower, does not reach EUR 24.300 per capita. This special situation, both socially and economically, requires a commitment determined by the development of the metropolitan area that takes advantage of the potential for economic, innovation and cultural development that it owns, and that it has become the economic engine of Galicia. I will therefore vote in favour of this bill, enriched with the amendments accepted and negotiated. As for the amendments rejected, I believe that the constitution of the Metropolitan Citizens' Council, as a consultative body for citizen participation, which proposes and develops Amendments 1 and 2 of the BNG, should be taken into consideration. The participation of society is fundamental in the development of the Metropolitan Area, as the object of creation is to improve the socio-economic conditions and the territorial and social cohesion of its population. The rejection of Amendment No 5 of AGE, which includes social and territorial cohesion within the competences of the Metropolitan Area, is not understood when amendments Nos 14 and 15 of the same group are accepted, adding and developing a new section with the title "Social and territorial cohesion". We will vote in favour of Amendment No 5 from the BNG, because I believe that the Vigo Metropolitan Area has the necessary authority to exercise its powers today and that the so-called change of competence would improve the provision of services to citizens. We also call for the consideration of Amendment No 6 of AGE, because, in short, it proposes to carry out a plan to care for the environment, preserve public health and promote interest in the cultural wealth of the Metropolitan Area. The teaching units take the first step to get future generations to move towards the social cohesion of the Metropolitan Area. We do not understand why Amendment No 25 of AGE is not accepted, much less after the event in Fandicosta; by citizen responsibility and security it is important that the Plan of Fire Extinction of the Vigo Metropolitan Area be updated periodically. We will vote in favour of Amendments Nos 6 and 7 of the BNG and 2 of the PSOE under Article 33. We propose that the People's Party consider Amendment No. 3 of the Socialist Party, which is much more open when accepting new incorporations into the Metropolitan Area, without the PP explaining why this refusal was made, and it is understood that the Metropolitan Area, depending on its ability to grow, will also improve territorial cohesion and will also benefit other municipalities, and we do not understand why the People's Party is interested in putting poles on the path of those municipalities that want to join the Metropolitan Area. Finally, we will vote in favour of Amendment No 8 of the BNG, which adds a transitional provision which establishes the need for a timetable for the transfer of allegations of competence between the different administrations concerned and the Metropolitan Area. We know that if, on a calendar, many times, things are dilated over time, without a calendar, we can forever take forward the changes that we will adopt today through this law. We will therefore vote in favour of all the amendments tabled which have been rejected, except Amendments 8, 11, 12 and 16, of which we will request a separate vote to abstain from them. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u63	Well, good morning to all and all. First, I wanted to start with a little preamble, because with respect to this text I had the opportunity to hear a little bit of everything. We're, of course, here to make politics, and not just to establish management guidelines. This policy is necessarily fuelled by ideology, because it is not the same as making politics from the right to the left, as much as the fluid discourse of postmodernism wants to deceive us. And when we make politics from the Galician Parliament, we have to think beyond localism and drive a national thought, which makes equality between all the Greeks and the Greeks, a fundamental principle. We will not deny here the existence of a consensus from the place regarding the amendment of Law 4/2012 of 11 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. However, we are also aware of the negotiating practices of the Italian Executive, because this is a relevant aspect. We're talking about a text that comes from the Executive to the Chemistry so that we, the parliamentary groups, can only say yes. And we say that it's not enough, that we have an obligation to look beyond the lines of a text that is offered to us as a closed and consensual. In the background – let me compare it – it's like when an education inspector arrives at an educational center and presents to the management the bad news that four teachers have to be deleted, a proposal for maximums, and after a pre-configured dialogue, the management agrees to cut down two teachers, which was, in fact, the actual proposal that the inspector had in mind. That is presented as a consensus, but it is true that we are faced with what we call trade marks imposed. Without fully stating that the change that is presented to us to the groups responds to that process, the fact is that in the definition of the text that was presented to us there were elements that would make a text of consensus, being important, insufficiently, for turning it all around two principles: that of governance and that of metropolitan transport, the only real changes that were offered. Nevertheless, on the text that we have been given, with regard to these two aspects, AGE has noticed in important absences, and that we have sought to cover through the political work of making amendments in two fundamental directions, which we will then describe in more detail. Amendments that insist on defending the public character of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, through the powers that must be refused by the government board, as well as the functions of the Transport Coordination Committee, and another package of amendments that affect the text of the law itself, which is on the basis of discussion of the amendment offered to us, in the sense that AGE considers that, in addition to public transport, there were those who deserved and deserve consideration in the final deliberation process that ends today. For example, themes of heritage and social ecology, fire extinction themes, public housing and soil policy issues. And that's why AGE made a total of 16 amendments, 13 rejected in the presentation and commission work, and 3 of them accepted. I will briefly refer to the rejected, because in some of them I hope that in this deliberation work that follows here there will be light and that they may be accepted by the majority group. The first amendment spoke of the principles and values that must govern the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which must govern the whole law. He spoke precisely of principles such as local autonomy, the participation of municipalities in government and in the management of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, proximity and participation of neighbourhood in government and management, equality of neighbourhood in access to public services, solidarity and territorial balance, equity and redistribution in public action and in the provision of services, balance and social cohesion, sustainable development, adequate and financial co-responsibility, and cooperation and institutional loyalty. And we say that because this first amendment, which was of addition, logically, caused the remaining political work – I repeat – which carried out the Left-Galga Alternative through its amendments. And so, for example, in the aspect of the functions of the governing board, in our Amendment No 2, where we call for increased control of democracy and governance of the functions of the governing board, this Amendment No 2 has been rejected; or our Amendment No 4, where we request that the Vigo Metropolitan Area carry out the public initiative on economic activity. This aspect is important to us. Everything that has to do with the management of the public and public character, with the public initiative, we seek to introduce it. And so, for example, we have a number of amendments, which are 9 to 10, 11 and 12 that talk about exactly the functions that the Metropolitan Transport Coordination Committee should have. We were talking about the permanent control of concessional public services or direct management services and compliance with the requirements of conditions. We were talking about the development of an integral model of metropolitan transport management through, for example, the single consortium, preferably insisting on public management. In Amendment No 11, we were also talking about the conduct of a legal and economic study that called for the release of private concessions from the collective transport of travellers to be integrated into the public management system in the future. Or we also tabled an amendment to avoid the problem that was being posed by Amendment No 1 of the People's Party and Amendment No 1 of the PSOE with regard to capitality, where we proposed a proposal for a regulation, a sort of regulation, of a status of capitality, so that Vigo had the same powers as provincial capital. This group of amendments that speak of the Committee on the Coordination of Metropolitan Transport have so far been rejected. Other amendments that have been rejected are those that speak of those aspects that we consider important to the law of 2012 that have not been considered in the text that is offered to us. Amendment No 5, which speaks of introducing the aspect of social and territorial cohesion, which is curiously linked to two amendments that have accepted us, which are 14 and 15 – which I will comment on – this amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 6 spoke of introducing a new paragraph that I am going to read, because we believe that this paragraph is important, and that it is not binding. It says: "To enter into Article 20(2) a new sub-apartment: ‘To study, plan and create cultural itineraries through pedestrian and cyclist green pathways that allow to know and enjoy, at the same time as to protect and preserve, the historical, cultural and natural heritage of the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, with particular emphasis on administrative cooperation with the Gounta de Galicia for the realization of specific educational units for public education centres in that area”. It's also a form of cohesion, of knowing the heritage, of producing sensitivity towards it. And so, in order to preserve it and protect it, they are necessary, through the educational system, educational units; but also through this studied, orderly and coordinated planning of green, pedestrian and cyclist pathways, of social ecology for use and enjoyment of a neighborhood that can pass through pathways that are not logically those of asphalt only. That amendment, number 6, as I say, has been rejected. And the same can be said of amendments that we consider important, as one of them, that we were approached by social agents themselves dedicated to the extinction of fires, Amendment No. 7, which says: "Add to Article 25 of the Law a fourth paragraph with the following text: ‘The Vigo Metropolitan Area has the responsibility of periodically convening a work commission to generate and update the firefighting action plan. The Vigo Metropolitan Area will act in favour of the inclusion of this plan in the metropolitan civil protection structure”. We understand that it is possible and necessary, given what happened not long ago in Fandicosta. So we understand that it's an amendment that only forces you to work so that it doesn't happen what happened. Another amendment that has been rejected, number 13, has to do with a territorial plan: "The metropolitan integrated interterritorial plan will incorporate the definition of public metropolitan policies of soil and housing to ensure inter-municipal solidarity in the execution of housing policies at social and public protection prices, and the adequacy and viability of such policies to ensure something as fundamental as constitutional right to housing and a dignified and full life." They are amendments of social silence, they are amendments of silence, in addition to public policies, which we seek to do through the work – I repeat – political, not only of management guidelines but of political work, of our amendments. And finally, we have to say hello that 3 amendments have been accepted at work – I repeat – taken up to now. One is Amendment No 3, which speaks of assigning to the board of government the realization of permanent control of concessional or direct public services, as well as of compliance with the obligations. Here it is, at the government board it has been accepted, and not so on the other side. Amendment number 14, which speaks of introducing a new section with the title "Social and Territorial Cohesion". Here, while our Amendment No 15, which speaks of introducing a 32a article with this text, was accepted: "Planning and evaluating programmes that allow, from public social policies and with the participation of social agents, to reduce interterritorial inequality and which contribute to improving the guarantees of protection and social care for the neighbours and neighbours of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo." Something that was accepted and came to demonstrate in depth what AGE said, that it was possible to improve the text of consensus. It was possible because, in addition, this is not strictly introduced into the consensus text, which revolves around metropolitan transport and governance, but is introduced into those aspects of the law that were not introduced into that output text. So we don't attack any kind of consensus here, we're expanding the consensus framework, we're not reducing it. So we understand that, if the People's Party had to accept these three amendments, it is possible that today it takes one step further and accepts other amendments which are likely to... and are also very related to those which have been accepted. I'm referring to Amendment No. 3 and curiously to Amendment No. 14 and 15, which has their correspondence in previous amendments. So, then, we will have a second turn to talk about the remaining amendments, and there I will announce the final positioning of the Left-Galga Alternative with regard to this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u64	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also want to greet, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the people who accompany us in the rostrum, the authorities and the representatives of Vigo's citizenship and its metropolitan area. It is a pleasure, of course, to be in this Parliament to hear this debate. Also allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin by saying that perhaps today I cannot make a defense as I want this law, because I have to be honest and say that the pain currently shakes my mind. There are very few moments I have just known – you certainly know – a painful news to me. Because there are people who say that Vigo is made of salt, of sea and steel, but no, Vigo is made of words, of words from the foundation of Vigo Faro, or The Olivet, where rightly Castro Rosaly wrote and defended this vision from Vigo to Galicia; those words that I want to read today from Álvaro Cunqueriro that so many times the master, the friend Augustine Fernández Paz repeated: "The very thing of a writer is to tell something, followed and well; to tell the whole human, that he has an obligation to feed with new glances. And if there's anything clear on that diet, it's that man needs first, like anyone drinking water, drinking dreams." [[Applause]] Dear Augustine, many times you have called me after an intervention from this gallery, we have commented on things from Parliament, we have commented on things from Galicia, its language, the need to leave them to future generations. Today, Augustine, my friend, very generous master, we all know that all of us here will shine more brightly, that your strength must follow us, and, because there are also people here who represent Vigo, Augustine was so, born inside, studied outside and returned to Galicia. And he was master of so many children and girls, of so many young and young, who taught us so many to love the language, so many and so many that we are neo-speaking, that we do not speak it in childhood but that we want to defend it with heart and with fear, which is why I only want to say a sentence of one of his works, clearly, Augustine: "The only thing left is love, and that's the important thing." [[Applause]] And I've already entered the law, itself, of the metropolitan area, which, in fact, we've been debating for almost two decades, two decades thinking and two decades in design. Because today it is true that we have reached a consensus for the first time, after many municipalities have agreed and managed to reach agreements on what is the need for this functional area that no one has ever discussed. But I want to make two prior reflections. I defend this law and recognize that it was a pride for me to participate as rapporteur in this debate and in this law on two issues: firstly, because I am a nationalist woman and I believe in the importance that Galicia, as a nation, has a clear management of the territory. And indeed – although we are in this political debate where the different political groups often try to put on medals – I believe that, going through this issue, but while recognizing the contribution made by different people and different political organizations, since the year 1999 and the Soutomaier Declaration itself, there is this commitment, that will, from the nationalism of understanding Galicia as a polycentric and absolutely articulated nation. And the need to articulate the metropolitan area is clear. How, with what objective, it is already part of the debate that led to the fact that in 2004 it had remained in the box because the elections were in progress, and that then the debates we had in the previous legislation were not as fruitful as it was necessary or we would not really achieve that dialogue and those necessary consensus. A law comes to Parliament after a clear unanimity on the part of the citizens and representatives of the metropolitan area, through their plenary or government meetings. And we actually pick up that feeling of unanimity from the Galician Nationalist Block, and we make contributions through amendments with the aim of improving it, actually keeping these agreements that have already been made in the various municipalities. We presented eight amendments. One, number two, was accepted, which we think is important, by the question of not only being included in the metropolitan area in order to be able to have access to benefits, but can be crafted in another way and that it remains part of that functional area. And the third was also traded for all political groups to have that representation. So we're left here six amendments that I want to defend today. The first is an incorporation on a metropolitan citizen council. The Metropolitan Area is born with a desire to shape what is already a functional area. We're not going to repeat here, for example, that in Vigo they go in and out of a volume of 40,000 vehicles every day; that is, there's really an influx of people into the city, and there's a life within that metropolitan area, because it's probably the configurations of societies and the territory of the future, and it's good that we recognize it. But we want to encourage participation and that social tissue feels part of that metropolitan area. That's why we included this metropolitan citizen council and gave it shape in Amendment No. 4, where neighborhood associations, trade unions, cultural associations would be collected, which we can understand by this social fabric, so that we can participate, if you feel part of the Metropolitan Area itself. We also put forward in the presentation process that we are open and open to give you the form that was considered suitable for that council; and even to leave a minimum skeleton and that then, once set in motion, if it was giving shape to it. We find it a pity, frankly, that it is not accepted, because we believe that it is simply a question of democratic quality, of encouraging participation, even of making all people who live in the Metropolitan Area, who live day by day in that metropolitan area, not only understand it as a transport issue – that at the end it is almost as we see it every day – but, indeed, of generating dynamics of joint life, of cultural projects, of joint social projects. We kept keeping these amendments, and that's why I wanted to defend them. As far as Amendment No 5, Amendment No 5 is concerned, I think it raises a question of silence which will probably not be resolved now, I don't know if in a future legislation, but clearly in the future century we are living in is necessary. It is clear that administrative structures must be streamlined and simplified. In Vigo, right now, there is a city: the municipalities that form the Metropolitan Area, the Metropolitan Area, the province and the Government of Galicia. We have enough administrative structures, and that has to give us at least four overlaps. We have to think, or they will have to think, how these administrative structures will be organized. I will only set an example, which is the same as I put in the presentation process, with regard to tourism competences; the competences of tourism in each municipality, in the Deputy and in the Government of Greece. I think there's... I don't know if it's triple, but of course there's no simplification for tourist promotion having repeated these entities. All of them are known for the attitude of the Galician Nationalist Block with regard to Deputies, their abolition and the territorial reorganization of Galicia. But, in any case, it has to be a point of debate and thought. Is it necessary for Parliament to transfer its powers to the Metropolitan Area? We believe that yes, that it would be a good starting point for the transfer of competences. In any case, because there will be a lot of competence there where it will be necessary to streamline and simplify. The local and administration students will probably face these problems and will be able to solve them. I took that example, but we could take other examples with regard to competences shared with Members. This amendment, which is Amendment No 5, we continue to maintain it at least to give rise to this debate, to bear in mind the need to rethink what should be the role of Members towards the 21st century and how we will organize the territory. Amendments 6 and 7 refer to the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the parliamentary groups presented these amendments and it was also a subject of debate, and a lot of debate, when the Metropolitan Area Act arrived at this Parliament in 2010. By reviewing your own logbooks, one of the issues that we have repeatedly raised from our parliamentary group was the following. A metropolitan area will need funding that cannot go to the detriment of the funding that the municipalities themselves have. Especially of the smaller municipalities, but also in this case of the largest municipality, which is what gives the Metropolitan Area its own name. This would mean an added expense, and we believe it is important that these amendments are introduced to maintain and ensure that there will not be a reduction in income due to being part of that metropolitan area, or of spending; and that it will also not suppose for citizens themselves, for citizenship, an increase in taxes. Finally, Amendment No 8, where I still hope, until this debate, that we can come to a transaction. It's clear that laws need to be put into operation. Today we have concluded a debate and we have concluded a few months of work for many people, but the real work will begin the day after this law is enacted, because that day we have to make effective all the agreements to which we are coming, and it cannot stay sine die, it has to have a date, it has to have an expression of will. It is true that we collect in the amendment a maximum of 3 months, and I understand that would be difficult to assume, or almost impossible. But if we assume a much simpler writing, easier to administer by all and every one of the municipalities, so that a date is set for the realization, at the start, to the running post than we approve today, of 12 months; it seems like a year can be the time. It seems that 6 should be reasonable, but as we really want to make it clear, that it is in the very text of the law that there is a political will on all sides to get to the functioning of what we approve today, 12 months is our proposal that we leave here to try to find a transaction with the rest of the groups so that it appears gathered in a transitional provision the need for a deadline for its functioning. Even if there is will, I believe that normal, if it exists and if it is so, if it is of good faith, and if the edges are now closed with the fundamental theme that moves us, which is the theme of metropolitan transport, a fundamental theme so that, in fact, thousands of people who need that transport, and at an appropriate price, can have it. Hence, if this will exists, we continue to maintain Amendment No 8. With regard to the amendments of the different political groups, in fact, in the next part-session I will tell you what our position on all will be. Even so, I want to finish by saying – as I said at the outset – that the Galician Nationalist Block will vote in favour of this law, as it did in the various metropolitan areas. Also saying that we could have reached some greater agreement on the theme of participation, of the farm, of the deputies, and now proposing that of the times, but understanding that citizenship has voted, through its representatives in the councils, and our obligation, of course, is to improve the law, to ensure its timing, and to wait for what is a daily reality, which is life in the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, if it goes together and that we are able, in addition, to see it – exactly at the beginning – from the point of view of making a country, to make a nation, understanding that cooperation between cities, between the districts, between the Metropolitan Area and the rest of the nation, is a goal not to separate, but quite the opposite, to add a strong Galician and a Galician from the future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin by greeting the mayor of Vigo, and in his person as president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the rest of the mayors and mayors in this Parliament, as well as the authorities. Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Bernard-Henri Lévy recently wrote that politics is the art of repairing, and that is exactly what we are doing today in this parliamentary headquarters. This is Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. I am not going to read to you the statements made about this law and the political role played by the Socialist Party, the mayor of Vigo and the mayor of Vigo in connection with it. I could do it. I'm sure you all know some, especially unfortunate, of the Vigo People's Party itself, of the President of the Galician Union and of certain autonomous members of the People's Party. It is true that in the middle of the Vigo Council where the Socialist Party refused to designate representatives for a law that was born a failure, we had to bear absolutely unjust criticism, in terms of governance and in terms of democratic quality, which carried a law passed by the absolute majority of the People's Party in this Parliament. This law was part of a strategy and tactics; it had a military component, without any doubt. The strategy was long-term, and it was exactly the ideological process of progressive recentralization that the People's Party of Galicia and the People's Party at the level of Spain, with Mariano Rajoy, have been developing, in Galicia for the last eight years and in Spain for four years. And the tactical dimension, the short-term dimension was, if any, even less defensive from Vigo's perspective. It was to rule Vigo from outside; it was to interfere in what is the political decision of Vigo citizens and citizens in relation to their way of ruling the local domain. And logically, the socialists would not agree with this strategy, because we understand that democracy is the representation – achieved after many struggles, not all – of one person a vote. Municipal elections took place, and here was a spokesman for the negotiating framework. I think the negotiating framework was basically imposed on citizens, and I'm going to give two data nothing more. The People's Party passed from 13 concelers in the Vigo Town Hall to 7, and the Socialist Party passed from 9 concelers in the Vigo Town Hall to 17. Yeah, yeah, I understand you bother them, but that's exactly the way it is, it's called arithmetic. [[Murmurs.]] I, as a teacher, value the learning processes very much, and I know that the learning processes have... [[Applause]] [[Interruptions.]] Mr. President, I was... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to repeat – I'm right, I think –
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u68	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u69	I'm going to repeat the data because it doesn't seem clear: the People's Party went from 13 to 7 concelers, and the Socialist Party went from 9 to 17 concelers. And while I'm not allowed to talk, I'm going to continue saying this data for the remaining eleven minutes and nine seconds... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I say that learning processes and pedagogy are a value in themselves – I, as a teacher, of course consider it so – and those who succeed when they correct have my welcome and my congratulations. Because in this prosthetic approach of searching for four lost years, literally lost in terms of territorial governance in the Vigo area, at a time that is economically and socially very complicated, that four-year loss is exactly in the People's Party's debt, they like their lordships or they don't like it. I can understand they don't like it, but it's exactly like that. From the last municipal elections of the year 2015, there was a change in the situation – as it well said – political, arithmetic. I repeat, 17-7. It is not the result of any rugby party, it is the result of the democratic vote of citizens of the Vigo Town Hall. From that moment on, there has been a process, a demand, of the necessary recovery of the democratic value of the Law of the Vigo Metropolitan Area. Because that law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, which you voted for in this Parliament, had very severe democratic deficits. You knew it perfectly, and they knew it was a political tool to rule Vigo from outside. What they weren't able to win in the polls, they tried to win in this Parliament with an absolute majority. But the city of Vigo told them not; exactly he said to them: 17-7. I insist on the arithmetic variable of the issue, because it seems that some Members have some understanding deficit in this regard: 17-7. Indeed, from that moment on, it makes possible what was not possible until 2015. It is possible at the municipal level and made possible at the provincial level. I want to recall Mr. Louzán's statements in 2010, when he began to process the bill, saying that at a time of crisis it didn't seem the right moment – in the newspaper El País, I have around the date, because they have some kind of intellectual concern about the subject – to develop the metropolitan area. And, in view of that, now, the Deputy of Pontevedra governs a socialist president who from the beginning has manifested all his willingness to cooperate with the establishment and proper functioning of the metropolitan area. So welcome, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party to this new political reality! The economic, social, geographic and territorial reality of the Vigo metropolitan area is exactly the same. He changed the 17-7. The voice of the Galego Nationalist Block, we had a lot of discussion here about the need for the metropolitan area and the 480,000 inhabitants, the 700 inhabitants per square kilometer, the dynamism of economic activity, and especially of industrial productive tissue, which means of higher wage level, of greater ease for innovation, of advanced services for businesses and industries. The geographical dimension of the theme itself and the proximity to northern Portugal is a fundamental factor of advantage in terms of geographic position of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, which, by the way, the People's Party has always ignored. We all remembered when I thought that the growth – we said cross-border – of Galicia had to be with Castile-Leon and Asturias. I'm sure they remember that time. It was the same time that Mr. Feijóo spoke of Galicia as a single city, which, fortunately, he forgot because undoubtedly meant nothing but rhetoric. Indeed, the Law of 2012 was – in our opinion – a missed opportunity, and it was a missed opportunity – said before – at a time of crisis, at a time when the effectiveness of policies, the coordination of policies, and therefore the saving of public funds for the development of those policies had to be a central element. And, unfortunately, it was not so; unfortunately, in that law the economic resources basically came from the municipalities, the Junta de Galicia, absolutely above the melee, and the provincial deputation, exactly the same. It was undoubtedly the chronic failure – in functional terms – announced, because it broke with a consensus; a consensus that was not built from the socialists, a consensus that came from the time of Mr Fraga Iribarne in a popular legislative initiative signed by the People's Party itself and that was debated in this Parliament and in a bill passed by the Council of the Union, which then this parliamentary group broke up with an amendment. Today this humble voicer has not yet been able to hear a reasonable explanation of why that happened. Because the explanation, ladies and gentlemen, is exactly that it was the strategy to rule Vigo from outside. As they couldn't say here, because undoubtedly they were silent, and they voted and stopped Vigo for four years in terms of metropolitan development, and the result was 17-7. This was a historic opportunity, without any doubt lost and, of course, without the consensus of the political forces. I'm glad this law is coming out unanimously today. It is unthinkable... I mean, who proudly signed this in the CEO, legitimately – in democratic terms they had 41 votes of 75 – who wants a change in the territorial, economic and political articulation of the country so quiet, without the prior search for consensus, knows that it is doomed to failure. But they preferred advertising and propaganda rather than practical objective results. Indeed, now the situation has changed. We hope that this real transfer of competences and funding from the Galician Union will materialize as it must materialize to facilitate the operation of the metropolitan area, and, of course, we understand that the Galician Union has, without any doubt, to be able to meet the circumstances, in the same way as they were and are all the councils of the area; everyone, regardless of their political colour. I'm not talking about political colors here, I'm talking more about administrations, I'm talking about a strategy – I insist – failed by the Autonomic Administration to develop the metropolitan area. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of something which, well, has not been mentioned here until now, but which is the Council of the Metropolitan Government. I had to listen to Commission 1st as the Director General of Local Administration of this government said the Government Board was not ruling. I understand that metaphysical approaches can be part of human discourse, but in practical terms it was an absolute... finally, we can qualify it as we want. The Government's board always rules, that's why it's called Government's board; i.e., I'm sorry for the low level of education here, but I don't think it needs much more. It is intolerable that those representing 62% of citizens have an executive weight of 7% –7% – which is what the 14 mayors of the 14 municipalities of the initial metropolitan area had in this Government Board. I insist that 62% of the inhabitants of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo have 14 municipalities, and 7.1% of the executive power and the portfolio; 62% of the inhabitants and funds, but the executive power, 7.1%. And this was not an attack on the mayor of Vigo or the Socialist Party – or at least not just that – it was an attack on the city, on the Vigo Town Hall, and I insist: 17-7. I think it is appropriate to reflect on some decisions and on some questions that are being voted on. Indeed, another theme, the presidency of the area. Here too, the People's Party has innovated. That is, in any metropolitan area, even in Porto – where, the city of Porto is not even the largest municipality in the metropolitan area, which, as some of you know, at least those in the south, is Vilanova de Gaia, which has almost 100,000 inhabitants more than Porto – the president of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, such as Bilbao, Barcelona, Valencia, etc., is the mayor of the reference city. Again here they tried to rule Vigo from outside, and I'm not going to repeat the arithmetic result... I can repeat it, yes, I see there are difficulties in memory: 17-7. It's very easy. Yes, yes, no one questions the 41s who have here – by the way, they have served to pass an unserviceable law. [[Murmurs.]] Noraboa for those 41!, they served to pass an unserviceable law. Of course, that's the theme, that's the theme of why 41 or 17. The 17 were used to actually implement this law – and by the way, I see it and I am very glad, many mayors of the People's Party. And it served to do that, those 17ths, which the 41s served exactly to block it. That's the difference between them. I regret that, well, sometimes this question is forgotten. From 2015 onwards, the mayor of Vigo began a round of contacts with mayors of the metropolitan area of all political colors – because I heard, immediately, about sectarianism; of all political colors, and I am glad that they are there, because they know perfectly that it was so – and that agreement was achieved; that is, there was a working methodology I think reasonable, that it is first to get an agreement with the mayors, to transfer a proposal to the board of Galicia and then, indeed, to agree on that proposal with the Vice President of the Board. Indeed, this is how the media collect it: "Chief proposes Feijóo an area with more weight than Vigo that obliges him to support her in order to rule her." "He will immediately quote the mayors of the area to discuss the Caballero plan and change the law." "Feijóo accepts Caballero's request to modify the metropolitan area." And by the way, Vigo is very generous. I want to talk about vows...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u70	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u71	It's over, Mr. President. And I think these figures – which are a little more than 17-7, which have a longer numerical sequence – are easy to understand. The People's Party in the last elections took the 14 municipalities of the Vigo Metropolitan Area 66,702 votes and will have 23 representatives at the assembly. I insist: 66,702 votes, 23 representatives. The Socialist Party had 95,057 votes – i.e. 45% more – and will have 22 representatives. If anyone talks about localism and talks about prepotency, what they're trying to do is hide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u72	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u73	...his sectarianism and his incompetence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u74	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u75	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I would like to begin my speech by expressing the condolences of the People's Parliamentary Group for the death of Agustín Fernández Paz. With all your heart, our condolences. Good morning, everyone. I am aware of the enormous responsibility it is to rise here today, to this gallery, as rapporteur of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Law of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, as rapporteur of the law and as neighbour of Vigo, in particular of Navia. A huge responsibility and enormous pride, because, with the implementation of this law – which we are now overcoming its last parliamentary process – the viguens and neighbours of the 13 other municipalities in the area, will see how their daily and social reality will have legal coverage that improves their public services. That's all I'll talk about later. Before, I would like to greet all the people who accompany us from the guest gallery; many of them, mayors and concellers who have made it possible for this debate to take place here today. Even if they're not all, but if so many, from the heart, thank you. Thanks to each of your mayors in his person. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Losada on his position on the list of the Socialist Party to the Galician Parliament. Today you've been here doing merit in front of your beloved leader to earn a job on the list. [[Applause]] A pity, Mr. Losada, a pity, because you missed a chance...... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u76	Quiet, please. Mr. Garcia, be quiet. Mrs. Quintas, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u77	You lost, Mr. Losada, a magnificent opportunity to be elegant and defend Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u78	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u79	Anyway, if they let me go on, I'll go on. He said – and I repeat – that I am disappointed, really, because you missed a magnificent opportunity to have been elegant with the work of the presentation and to have defended this law. You preferred, instead of defending this law, to attack. I'm going to follow my path, which is to defend this law and defend the vicars. Everyone can choose their own. [[Applause]] And, of course, Mr. Gallego, they've been keeping track of the municipal elections all the time. They've been doing it for a year, and they've already lost two general elections. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm not going to remind you, Mr. Losada, that you know a little bit about that, that you've been a candidate and that you've finished as you've done. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I sincerely believe that one of the greatest values of the legislative text that we are going to support today is the high degree of consensus reached in the various stages of its elaboration between mayors, municipal chambers, the Council of Galicia and this Parliament. This text, this idea, this area is the fruit of the work of many people who for the past 80 years, with better or greater intensity, have worked on their work plot to build this great Vigo of half a million inhabitants, willing to remain Galician economic engine. So we're not starting from scratch. It must be acknowledged that the commendable task done by different administrations, political leaders and social agents has made it much easier to achieve this historic claim, which is not a goal, but a tool for achieving better services adapted to demand in the social dynamics of the area. So I cannot but pass the opportunity to recognize and recall important precedents of this law, as was the constitution of the Vigo Commonwealth in 1992, driven by a socialist mayor, Carlos Príncipe. I can't help but recall the Soutomajor Declaration in 1999, driven by a nationalist mayor, Lois Pérez Castrillo. I can't help but recall the popular legislative initiative of the Association of Neighbors Eduardo Chao, in 2008 – here's the initiative – which had almost 30,000 signatures, among which I found myself. Thank you very much for all your work to the representatives of FAVEC who accompany us here today. And, of course, to the person who then presided over FAVEC, who was no other than Elena González, a companion of this Parliament who, for an indisposition, cannot be here today, but we also want to thank her for all her work. It is also fair to recall the work of Law 4/2012 of this Parliament, the first Law of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, to the autonomic legislator of the previous mandate, who approved it, and to the president of the Galician Council, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, who was his promoter; for being his promoter, for being willing to dialogue, to negotiate, to reach agreements without any condition more than that of the one who placed the disposition as soon as possible to benefit his neighbours. For all this, all of them and all the beams, thank you very much. [[Applause]] In the parliamentary process in this text, which today reaches its end, the People's Group has worked under three fundamental axes. The first is to respect the full agreements of the 13 municipalities of the area and the agreement of the Government of the Vigo Council to maintain the consensus reached around the bill. It is worth remembering that in this area there are municipal governments of all political colors, which perfectly represents social and political plurality, which is also represented in this Parliamentary House. Secondly, leave local autonomy intact and perhaps strengthen it, so that the protagonists of the development of this law depend strictly on the will of the municipalities. We hope that this task contains the institutional collaboration of the Galician Council and, as it does not, of the Pontevedra Parliament. And finally, technically improve the text – as we have done – to debate and present amendments – as we have done – specifically three amendments. The first of them refers to the capitality of the Metropolitan Area. We consider it appropriate that the capitality of the Metropolitan Area resides in its city, in Vigo, and that the treatment given to this city, with regard to the proportionality of public services, is similar to that of a provincial capital. That's how we did it, and so we presented it in this amendment, which is added to the bill. The second deals with the participation of the area in State and Union taxes for local authorities. We believe it is important that these funds for the financing of local entities can also benefit the Vigo Metropolitan Area, if there is a very important slaughter, and that the constitution of this Metropolitan Area cannot entail an increase in current expenditure or public expenditure, because its constitution is precisely what it intends is greater austerity and better management of public resources. So, we don't understand, and hence our great difference with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, that the fact that a metropolitan area is built can lead to a greater increase in spending and hence the contribution of citizens through public spending in the financing of local authorities. And finally, an amendment that deepens the regularization of future enlargements. Here we consider it appropriate two questions: firstly, that the nominees for entry into future enlargements should be neighbouring municipalities, and secondly, that those nominees and nominees should also have economic and social ties with the Metropolitan Area. And I explain why. One of the amendments in one of the sections that we added during the bill is the section of social and territorial cohesion. If we really want the area to be a cohesive area, the logical thing is that all municipalities that form it are borderline. And secondly, the social and economic linkage which, therefore, already speaks for itself, that obviously there is a link, but if the fact that it is borderline, we consider that it is equally important. This is added to amendments which this parliamentary group has supported and which has made them now included in the bill we are debating. For example, two of the Galego Nationalist Block that refer to hypothetical contracts and agreements that can be maintained with other municipalities outside the Metropolitan Area, but that may have links, for example, the fact that a council is part of Vigo's health area and can have a metropolitan transport line; or the fact that representation in the Metropolitan Assembly has in all cases representation of all political forces, if well the proposed transaction, and finally added to the presentation, means that such representation must be proportional according to the Law of Local Regime Basics, that – as everyone knows – is the one that dominates in these circumstances. As far as the AGE amendments are concerned, we approved two in the motion: first, to which I referred, the inclusion of a new section of social and territorial cohesion, and second, which is in control of contracts and concessional services and their duties. Something that's important, and that's ahead of time, is that we can negotiate a transaction to the specific aspect of transport, as long as competition is already transferred to the Metropolitan Area. And there have also been rejected amendments, that's true. Some of them had a certain ideological silence, which we thought could discern that consensus reached both in the municipalities and in the parliamentary arch, and then there are others, such as the way of the Neighborhood and Metropolitan Council, which we considered should be a matter that is decided upon in the heart of the Metropolitan Assembly, since in this law the possibility of generating new channels of participation of the neighbouring State is already collected. We are not against this being done, but we do believe that the protagonist of his constitution must not be Parliament, but must be the Metropolitan Assembly itself. And in the same way, the same argumentation serves to show us a specific calendar to mark the transfers of competences by different administrations. We believe that it is important, indeed, that there is such a calendar, but we also consider that those who best know their possibilities, and as if they should do better, are the municipalities, and again we turn to them for them to be able to mark their own calendar. As far as this is concerned, on the subject of transfers of competences, I have to show some concern, because in recent days I have seen interviews in the press in which the president of the Pontevedra deputy continued to insist that she did not know what were the competences that had to be transferred to the Metropolitan Area once she was constituted. And to me this, the truth is, I'm worried. I am concerned about two questions: firstly, because it is already fully collected in article 15 of the law of 2012, which in this case will add some more competition, and secondly, because the Socialist Party, in its amendment on Vigo's capitality, has logically forgotten to include the deputy in Vigo's treatment with a treatment similar to a provincial capital. And to me, that's the truth I'm worried about. That's why I think it's also important that the Pontevedra Deputy, in the same way as the Union, and in the same way that the municipalities have clear what the powers they must transfer, and that they do so with the greatest diligence and speed possible. And that will only be possible with the involvement of all social agents and administrations. For my part, in this first round, I just congratulate the work of all the groups on the presentation. It was really a pleasure to work with you on this subject, and once again, to underline the historic day we are living: Vigo will have legal recognition to a social and economic reality that has been enduring for years and years, and that will happen to history, for it is a new display of kindness and generosity on everyone's part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments of the other groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u81	I've already referred to the position of the Joint Group on the amendments that have been rejected, and we shall vote in favour of this law. But, anyway, I, after listening to the rest of the debate, wanted to say some things. One, remind the People's Party that Vigo is the economic engine of Galicia, despite the governments of the state and of the Union. Vigo is the economic motor of Galicia, despite the mayoralities of the People's Party in the city, who assumed the complete paralysis of the city, where they were mainly concerned about having flowers, removing the poor from the middle and that Vigo center would look pretty, but never worried about defending the city of Vigo, much more concerned about defending the partisan interests they played at every moment. So a law of the metropolitan area was passed in 2012 which is the law of the People's Party, but it wasn't the law of the vicars and the vicars, nor the law that was of interest to most of the Metropolitan Area. Thanks to the vicars and the vicars, Vigo has advanced, however, because Vigo is a city that is mobilized, which is organized to prevent the overexploitation, to prevent it from being ignored, and has been fighting all its life to have that recognition well deserved not only as an economic engine, but also as an engine of social dynamics, labour struggle, people's rights. So Vigo fought hard against that scalextric crossing us on Urzaiz street, because they thought that Vigo could do anything. Vigo fought, and continues to fight, against the plot of AP-9 and the payment of a highway that doesn't have the conditions of the highway, but which costs as if it were. Vigo also fought, and continues to fight, for a plot of the high-speed train that takes into account the city; Vigo always fought in defense of his productive sectors. Vigo is the city that in recent years has the greatest participation in demonstrations, for example, such as the First of May, with participations above Madrid or Barcelona, as happened in general strikes, in which Vigo was the city of the whole state where social participation was greater. That's why you can never stop Vigo, because Vigo is a working city, a city that is self-conscious, a city that has no awareness of its importance is a city that is already tired of administrations always leaving it aside. So, as I said before, I will support the amendments to the opposition. I do not understand the rejection of the Metropolitan Citizen Council, precisely by that spirit of Vigo of social participation far above the other municipalities, an enviable social consciousness; therefore that right to participate in the decisions of the Metropolitan Area. I also claim, and I say to the People's Party, that Amendment 5 of AGE should be taken into account again, which makes no sense once its amendments 14 and 15 are accepted. Also Amendment No. 5 of the BNG, because, of course, Vigo has more than proved that he is able to assume all the competences that he exercises today on the Metropolitan Area. As with Amendment No 6 of AGE, which has not explained why an amendment is rejected, which is the only amendment that seeks to preserve public health and promote cultural interest in the Metropolitan Area, the same is because the People's Party does not have much interest in the spread of culture among citizens. And it's also not understood to reject Amendment 25 AGE after the event in Fandicosta, an amendment that only aims to organize emergency services to give an immediate, rapid and effective response throughout the Metropolitan Area. So I also have Amendment 3, which also did not explain to the People's Party why they did not accept this amendment from the Socialist Party, which only seeks to favour the expansion of the Metropolitan Area and that metropolitan services are increasingly reaching out to more citizens in the area who want to join it. So, all we can do is congratulate ourselves on the adoption of this law and regret that we could not move forward a little more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u83	First of all, I didn't understand, Mr. Dorado, in his speech, the acceptance of Amendment No 5, that of social and territorial cohesion. I believe that yes, that I heard it in voice, therefore, we rejoice in this acceptance, the same as we will accept the proposal to deal with as it is offered, which is to incorporate into Amendment No 9 of AGE, where it is said: It must be added at the end of paragraph 4 of Article 21, a new sub-apartment with the following text: "Realize the permanent control of concessional or direct public services, as well as of the fulfilment of their obligations", the words – if I did not misunderstand it – "when the powers are transferred to it". Don't you? Well, we accept it, because we understand that it goes in addition to the other, with Amendment No 3, which has already been accepted for release, and the same applies to Amendment No 5, which corresponds to the acceptance of the 14th and the 15th. So, let's rejoice at those facts that implement and expand the general framework of the bill, of the law that, as we have repeated, goes beyond consensus, because what AGE did was mainly work on two ways – and we see that in the end the work of enduring to the end was not so wrong or so wrong, and at least we can understand that it is necessary to introduce the aspect of social and territorial cohesion as a structure, as a piar artiller of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, especially through the definition that we have reached in our Amendment 14 and Amendment 15. So, as we did throughout the work, it was always worrying what would be the position of the Left Galician Alternative, if it was a new definition... we abstained in commission because we understood that we had to continue working politically to see if the People's Party agreed to move forward in its position. We see that today there is a little further progress, so we are able to refer not only to the text of high degree of consensus that was from the position of exit, but also to the resulting text, which incorporates those aspects that involve the bill and give it a structure of cohesion, curiously, also in the text, as well as in the very reality that it is intended to develop in the Metropolitan Area of Vigo through this law. We support the amendments of the other groups and, above all, we also support Amendment No 4 of the BNG, because we understand that the introduction of the Metropolitan Citizens' Council would be important for precisely what democracy is and what governance is, which is precisely the fundamental cornerstone of this bill that was offered to us at the base: governance and democracy. We understand that it does not begin at all that there is an inter-municipal consultative body of citizen participation, composed of representatives of the community, trade union, business, social movement, with presence and action within the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. We understand that it is, of course, an important point, and we encourage the People's Party to reconsider and accept this Metropolitan Citizen Council because it would give it more shape, and would allow us to consider that we are actually moving forward in governance and in participation of citizenship, which is the direct benefit, logically, of all this process that is being deliberate and already reaching the end. So, nothing else. To welcome this progress made in this plenary session by the People's Party, because, of course, it is always positive that amendments to the work carried out by the opposition are accepted. Therefore, we can move forward that the Gaga de Left Alternative will support the final text favourably. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u85	Thank you, President. As I said in the previous speech, we still kept these amendments open, waiting at least for Amendment No 8 to be taken into account so that we could come to a transaction about the time of operation of the Metropolitan Area, this amendment that we bring here today's debate. I see it's not possible for us. It's a shame. We understand that it would be a step forward, as was a step forward in the amendments which – as already mentioned above – have been introduced into this whole procedure of tabling, commissioning and now in the last procedure. I also want to thank the rapporteurs for the joint work of this law, because I believe that we spend hours, that we dedicate our effort to it – as our obligation, on the other hand, that it is not that it is not, but with an environment of being able to get the maximum number of issues that would improve this law. We're still keeping Amendment No 4. And at least I want to read, so that we know what we're voting for and what we're rejecting, that what we're asking for at the Metropolitan Citizen Council is an inter-municipal consultative body of citizen participation. I mean, we think we have adopted in this Parliament, in this legislature, at least – I remember – more than six laws that open up the possibility of advice – of industry councils, of participation councils, of the social economy and the latter. That is, rather than setting up a council, for citizen participation, inter-municipal consultation. I assume in the presentation procedure we were told that this would be something that would then be done by the Metropolitan Area in its operation. I hope that this is the case and that the spirit of the area itself will actually open up bodies of participation, democratization and the possibility that citizens will take their own concerns there. With regard to the amendments tabled, we call on the Presidency to amend the AGE, since it was – if I noted correctly – admitted number 5 and dealt with number 9, that Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 13; and in another block amendments 8, 11, 12 and 16 are to be voted on separately. By sharing, indeed, much of what is proposed in the various amendments, we believe that it would be our much clearer position by separating the vote from these two groups of amendments. We do not ask for a separate vote on the amendments that remain open by the Socialist Party. As I said at the beginning of this intervention – and already to finish – we hope that we will actually take an important step today so that the Metropolitan Area is a reality that will improve the lives of people living in this metropolitan area. As Mrs. Martínez did indeed make an account here, they have been standing up for decades, an area, an area that is already a functional area that takes the form of law, with their effort, with their work, with their demands, with their ability to create in all areas. I used to make reference before, because we always bring here sectors like naval, automotive and conservation, but we don't forget that Vigo too is a city of culture, it's a city of creation, one of the creative engines of this nation that is the Galician nation. That's why the BNG, as it did in 1999, when it led to the Soutomairo Declaration the need to transform through a metropolitan area which is a reality that lives every day, today we will vote in favour of this law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Dorado, for worrying so much about my political future. The truth is, it's always rewarding. You spoke of consensus in the drafting phase. Listen, but is the consensus really the 41th PP in favor and the 34th other parties against? What consensus? The consensus is to put an amendment to the People's Group itself that literally breaks the spirit of the bill passed by the Council of the Union, I suppose I welcome it? Yes, yes. I think about the government board, and then where did you go if you didn't? Yes, yes, Mr. Dorado, yes. Look at him because, indeed, he did. [[Murmurs.]] The consensus of the People's Party is after 17-7. That's the People's Party's quest for consensus. The lesson the vicars gave the People's Party that they weren't willing to rule Vigo from outside, that's the consensus. You have also expressed a great deal of concern about the position of the provincial deputy. Look, Mr.Luzán's statement to El País on 9-12-2010, speaking of the Metropolitan Area: "It is not a priority, it is better to leave it for the best time". Statement by the President of the Parliament of Pontevedra this Sunday: "I will support the Area". Hey, I, of course, Bible oaths here I don't ask them, we're in Parliament, indeed. So I understand that you have to manifest some kind of discrepancy, but I believe that this discrepancy and the behaviour of Members is so radically different that, at last, as a political resource, I find it quite scarce. I take advantage of the Vice-President of the Board, who in a previous debate expressed his skepticism because the firemen of Roundola – Mr. Rueda, do you remember? Look, as article 25 of the law speaks precisely of the prevention and extinction of fires, I will allow myself to follow the matter. It ends exactly the same day: "I'm on a red whole-terrestrial truck, with hoses and water tank called firemen, even if they put emergencies there." I understand that in the People's Party they have some difficulty knowing what a fireman is, it's enough to see some of them with moccasins and a garden hose putting out fires. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But – I insist – I'm sure if you're round her and she's burning up her house, she calls them. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if they're firefighters or aliens, do you understand me? Yes, yes, it was you, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Vice President. Regarding the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia, the issue of funding. In fact, in the bill itself, with the explanatory memory that appears up to six sites, it is said by the Galician Union that it will not bear any additional cost added to the operation of the Metropolitan Area. We do not call for any positive discrimination for the Metropolitan Area. We say, if you're talking about the union of Oza-Cesuras and Sardinia-Cotobade, that's going to have economic incentives from the Union in terms of prioritising subsidies, etc., why not the Vigo Metropolitan Area? I'd like to know exactly what the reason is. Or if the capital of Galicia has a status of capital recognized by law and accepted by all the world, and that brings with it a budget allocation in the budgets of the Galician Union, why not the Metropolitan Area? Because until now, of course, you didn't explain it to us, which I know. In relation to the neighbouring municipalities, see, for the truth is that neither the Galician Local Administration Act nor the State Basic Law require that they be neighbouring municipalities, with which I do not understand very well what is the motivation. And with regard to services similar to those of a provincial capital, it seems to me very good that the People's Party hangs the medal. Wellcome. All right, welcome, etc. But, Mr. Dorado, at the plenary session on 28 March this year, at the plenary session of the Vigo Council on 28 March this year, a socialist motion was introduced, which was approved with the support of En Marea but with the abstention of the People's Party, in which the law was requested to include for the Vigo Metropolitan Area a provision of services similar to that of a provincial capital. Hey, they've changed position, it's okay. But don't come here to sell us expired products. They've changed their position. And I'm not going to repeat exactly why you've changed your position because I don't want to be heavy. They've changed position exactly for that, all right. If that 17-7 serves to ensure that the Law of the Vigo Metropolitan Area is approved unanimously in this Parliament, welcome.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u88	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u89	And I want to finish, of course, by thanking the Members of the Chamber and the staff of the House and the Commission's own lawyer. Gabriel Celaya said that poetry is a weapon loaded into the future. I really hope that the Vigo Metropolitan Area will be a loaded tool for the future, and above all a better future for the citizens of the Metropolitan Area, who are, without any doubt, suffering in an absolutely dramatic way, by the policies on the right, the consequences of a crisis that they have not caused. Because one thing I've learned living in Vigo, where I've been living for a few years – almost twenty-six – is that if Vigo is okay, Galicia is fine. And this is a good step for Vigo and Galicia to do them good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u90	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Mr. Losada, about the amendments, I've already had that document. I almost read it as they are, because... in particular, Mr. Losada's document says that the amendments of the AGE Parliamentary Group, to 2 and 13, vote on them separately; and 10 and 12 as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The rest of them are mixed together. And those of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 1 and 4 separately, and the rest of them are dumped together. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, that's what he proposed. You'll tell him what to tell him. [[Laughter]] And now, People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, will you vote against or in favor? Because everyone said they were going to vote in favour, but you, for your speeches, seem to be going to vote against. It's just that he's always so opposed that he doesn't know how to go in favor. We are, of course, going to vote in favour. [[Applause]] We will continue to seek consensus. [[Applause]] He hasn't said a good word of this law yet. We waited for her, but she didn't say it in any of her speeches. Too bad. I made real efforts in my first intervention not to have to talk constantly with you and make reference to the mayor of Vigo, but only let me do it. You must put each one in his place, Mr. Losada. You talk about hemerotheque and you spend all the time hanging medals. He's able to hang up the medal on the question of Vigo being the capital of the metropolitan area. Look, Mr. Losada, FAVEC's popular legislative initiative, Eduardo Chao Association Federation, have you signed? Have you signed this initiative? No, I do. Has Mr. Knight signed this initiative? No, no, no, no. Mrs. Porro, yes. That's the difference, Mr. Losada, that's the big difference. No medals, you can't throw yourself, Mr. Losada. [[Applause]] Look, I'm going to give him more medals, because he likes the medals so much that he's going to fall by the weight of the medals. Mr. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u92	Easy, easy! We're finishing up now. Calm down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u93	...I feel so much that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u94	Calm down! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, calm down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u95	...even if you're a secretary general of your party, don't let him be a spokesperson for the group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u96	Mr. Gallego, calm down. [[Strong murmurers.]] Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u97	Mr. Gallego, I've heard every... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We're going to follow the medals of the Socialist Party. The next medal is to delay the launch of the Vigo Metropolitan Area for the last four years. Congratulations on that medal, gentlemen of the socialist stands, Mr. Mayor of Vigo, Mr. Noraboa. That was a real medal, the medal of the one who prioritized his personal interest in presiding over an area in front of the interests of the metropolitan area's neighbours for having better public services. Congratulations on the medal, Mr. Losada. A real success, a real success. [[Applause]] This is neither the area of Mr. Caballero nor Mr. Losada nor Mr. Feijóo, it's the area of the vicars, to see if they learn it at once. With regard to an amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block, which is Amendment 5, I have to show that I have been tempted to approve it. That's the amendment that clearly states that the Vigo Metropolitan Area has in its hands all the powers that the Deputy has. Obviously, we don't because we believe in Members. But we were tempted to support her, because to see if once and for all anyone exercises competence in the Vigo Metropolitan Area and in the Pontevedra Deputy. Because in the last years of the headquarters and buildings of the Pontevedra-Vigo Parliament, now take the "new" Pontevedra Deputy and leave that building without any services. You bet Vigo makes the Socialist Party! I'll bet Vigo! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The truth is there are so many medals... we're going to continue with the medals, because I see they're delighted with the medals. "Tourino advances that there will be Vigo-Pontevedra Metropolitan Area." Here goes the medal. We continue with the medals, because there are many medals for the Socialist Party. "Chief tells the Board to paralyze the Metro Area Act if you want to eliminate duplication." Look at the data! "Mr. Rueda, don't think much, do as we say, paralyze the Metropolitan Area Act." It's less bad that Mr. Rueda thinks a lot and pushes the metropolitan area. That's a lot worse! It's okay, Mr. Losada, another medal. [[Applause]] It's okay. This is also to be heard by Mr. Caballero: "Abel Caballero rejects a metropolitan area of 14 municipalities for being a delay" New medal. You are going to die of success, among the medals you have, you are going to die of success. "Caballero urges to derogate the area to avoid the bochrono." The blowjob is what you have to endure by remembering your hemerotheque. That's a real blow. [[Applause]] We really consider it appropriate that once and for all we put the medals aside and actually throw the ball on the citizens' roof, the ball on the beams' roof, the ball on the public service roof. I'm done. Let me finish this legislative debate in a positive way. This legislation that is about to end will pass into history as Vigo's legislation, it is not remembered a legislation where Vigo had so clearly focused the attention of the Galician Union. This will be the legislation that goes into history because it's the legislate of Vigo's great hospital, the law on cleaning up the river with that debugger that's about to finish, the legislation on metropolitan transport, with fifteen months of delay by the Vigo Town Hall but by the metropolitan transport. It's the legislating of the arrival of AVE to Vigo, the legislating of the transformation of Vigo's old helmet, of a dark, almost dark neighborhood, into a fashionable, incipient neighborhood, and today the tourist icon of the city. Congratulations also to the President of the Consorcio do Casco Vello, Mr. López Chaves, who is here with us. Yes, ladies... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u98	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u99	It is the legislation of the "Lei Vigo", which has unlocked the municipal urban chaos generated by the current municipal government, the legislation of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, the legislation of the consolidation of Citroën, the laws of the Regurdir of the naval, the legislation that begins the first intermodal station of Galicia – always and when they make the access, which is what they have committed themselves –, the legislation that puts the mimers into the Vigo of the future, the Vigo of the expansion of Navia, the Vigo of the city of justice, the Vigo of Plisan, the Vigo of the State library. It's the legislation that's going to see the eyes of the extension of the Rande bridge, the unfoldment of the Morrazo corridor, and so on, and so forth, and so forth... the Vigo legislature. It was not an easy way, rather full of traps, and many came from the same place: the mayor of the city of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u100	Silence, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u101	But despite that and even though they won't let me talk, we're here. We got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u103	It's a success of all the beams. I live to take stock of this legislation and you'll see how there are politicians who fulfill their obligations, with their city, even though much remains to be done. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have finished this legislation with the feeling of duty accomplished, but with a commitment: that the following will also be Vigo's legislation to fulfil the duties we still have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u104	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Mr Dorado, on the amendments, I understood that I accept Amendment No 5 from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and deals with Amendment No 9. That's right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. Yes, Vice President, you have the floor whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, mayors and mayors of the Vigo Metropolitan Area, spokespersons of the municipal opposition, members of the FAVEC, other people who came from Vigo and the other thirteen municipalities today to this debate, this intervention – I know it perfectly, Mr President – is exceptional in a closure of interventions before the adoption of a law. But, without the spirit of opening speeches or debate, today is a day of joy, I think. It's a day to be happy. There were some people who were a little clumsy looking all the time up to see if it would be all right... and, at last, simply by allusions, president, because it didn't have to do with the debate what I'm going to say now, but because Mr. Losada introduced them. I know there are fire trucks in Roundla. There's no firefighters, because you voted against being funded by the board and the deputy. There are fire trucks and there are no firemen, who don't keep fooling you, Mr. Losada, who don't keep fooling you. [[Applause]] And said this, ladies and gentlemen, I think today is – as I said – a day of joy, a day of celebration for all. I think this law has had a process that for a lot of things deserves to be highlighted. There were no amendments to the whole, quite unpublished thing in this legislation. Amendments to all groups have been approved; not all, but amendments to all groups. And I think there's been an agility in the processing of this law that has to make us all congratulate each other. Honestly, I think it's time, as has already been done here, to thank all of you and all of you who have been working on the project, the municipalities, concellers, collectives and, of course, the groups at the processing stage here in Parliament, their work, their involvement, their ability to dialogue and their courage also to try to reach consensus. I think it's a day of celebration too, it's not the time today to look back, nor to look for responsible for one or another situation. I am very glad that all of them here had worked, that the fourteen mayors and mayors had worked, not now, but those who were already – who were now too, of course – in the Declaration of Soutomaior, and for all these years they had to go through to get to a historic moment like today, that all of them had to make contributions, that there had been initiatives by municipal officials to collect contributions to the law, that they would also have them from Galicia to hold meetings with all the mayors and mayors of the different municipal groups. And I am very glad, in the end, that this law has closed its text to send it to the Government – for it to be sent to Parliament – at the headquarters of the Council of Galicia at a meeting chaired by the Council of Galicia with the fourteen municipalities, and today it is approved by this council, where, Mr Losada, I have to tell you that it is true that we will all approve it, fortunately, but some will vote with 41 deputies and others with 18 for now and that it is known. That's also a very important difference. [[Applause]] And therefore, as we are on a historic day for Vigo, today is not a final point. I think it makes history today, but we have to keep making history. From now on, there are many possibilities for municipal cooperation, many possibilities for different administrations, the fourteen municipalities that will initially form the area, those that will be added to the Council of Galicia and the Parliament, which I am very glad that it will manifest itself here without any doubt that it will also be at the height and the work of doing the metropolitan area. I hope so. I'm sure it will. I believe that this spirit of consensus, this spirit of work is already bearing fruit even before the law is passed. I have to remember the good news for everyone about Vigo's incorporation, after all this time, to metropolitan transport. It was very important for the law to be born with strength from the very first moment. It is a goal already reached – I insist – even before this law was passed. And from now on, the spirit of consensus, the spirit of coordinated work, and the sum of efforts I hope that they will be kept to do, I don't know if the hardest, but of course, not the simplest, which is to pass the law. We're going to approve it today. I insist that I think it's good news, good news for the fourteen municipalities, for Vigo and the 13 other municipalities, which will be approved unanimously from all groups of this House. But from now on comes the most difficult, which is to put it in motion, give effect to its predictions. It opens a fan of huge possibilities. I hope we're all up to it. Of course, the Galician Union will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u106	Thank you, Vice President. Let's move on to the second point. Proposal for a single reading procedure for the draft law establishing the Official College of Occupational Therapists of Galicia and, where appropriate, discussion and vote on the previous draft law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u107	Let's wait a moment for our guests to leave so that they can hear better. [[Pause.]] Thank you. The Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board, at the meeting on 5 July 2016 agreed to propose to the plenary of this Chamber the processing of the procedure for the single reading of this bill, in the light of Article 134.1 of the Rules of Procedure. Before submitting the proposal for a single reading procedure to the vote, a round is opened to set its position by parliamentary groups. The Joint Parliamentary Group begins, which you can do from the scene, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. The proximity of the completion of the parliamentary mandate is an influential factor in the use of special legislative procedures. In this electoral context, the legislative techniques of procedural axillization, the special legislative procedures for temporary reasons, have a fundamental role to play when the finalization of the legislation is approaching. I mean, the proximity of electoral processes causes governments to have an extraordinary legislative activity that is used as a pre-election campaign. The single reading system has a totally exceptional character and is set by procedural rules as a special legislative procedure. It is a procedural technique through which Parliament is to be given a quick response to legislative proposals which do not present great difficulties in consensualizing or agreeing to its approval by speeding up procedural procedures. But of course this is not the case, since it is necessary to stop at some point to study and debate what is the meaning of professional schools today. So this should have been a much more participatory debate, where the Board had presented the reports on which its bill is based and an assessment of the current quality of occupational therapy services and the improvements that school creation will bring to society. But I also find it unjustified to deal with the urgency procedure, since if this bill was not passed today, nothing would happen at all. In fact, this bill is no more than a gesture to the required professionals in an electoral year in which PP is suffering from the greatest defeats of its history as a result of anti-social policies that it has always practiced, but especially harsh in this last legislation, and the corruption that permeates the party throughout the state. He tries to thank society for trying to erase years of aggression and corruption. As I have already stated on more than one occasion in this House, I oppose the creation and proliferation of professional schools, which contribute nothing to society. Schools are professional or grammatical groupings that aim to defend their colleges and colleges, are organizations as obsolete as deputies, belonging to a past that resists abandoning. Schools respond to corporate interests, not to the interests of the majority of society or to the interests of the working class. We will therefore vote against the single reading and urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u110	Thank you, President. For this parliamentary group expresses its total disagreement with the single reading procedure of this law and we will therefore vote against this procedure. The use of this procedure of extraordinary legislative procedure is reserved, according to jurisprudence, for a procedure of consensus, of broad agreement, eliminating bureaucracy, but its regulation is certainly different in the various autonomous communities of the Spanish State. And in Galicia the use of this procedure prevents partial amendments, limits time and therefore affects the ability of the opposition parliamentary groups to exercise precisely our legislative capacity. Prevents the practice from improving the text, preventing participation and its use. In this case, we understand that it is a perversion, because it gives the feeling that the People's Party wants to approve, to the prisoners, a legislative text that it had seven years to work, the last two legislations; there are only four autonomous communities left to put this school into operation and seems to be used to stay well – before the autonomous elections – but we understand that they have enough time to carry out the routine procedure. She wants to warn us of the danger of normalising the use of a procedure, the extraordinary one, depending on the interests of the Executive, and of course we will not accept the deletion of a presentation, the ability to improve a text, even if it is a brief text, and we will already explain what we think of it in the next turn, because it contains errors, even technical ones, that should be solved and that would be avoided if the procedure was the ordinary one. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG has already expressed itself on more occasions against this use of processing, by the single reading procedure, because it is obviously not a procedure that allows for agreement and negotiation. In this case, there is no reason for this single reading process beyond what can be said about the brevity of the text presented; it is not the result of an emergency that survives a subject that has just emerged, or much less. It is not a question that has just been raised, but that it has been raised for months by the people who demand the creation of this professional school, with which it is evident that this process, by single reading, responds to the strategy of the People's Party, responds to the times of the People's Party, responds to the commitments and themes of the People's Party. We have stated against this procedure that it is of an exceptional nature, an exceptional nature of the elimination of bureaucracy when there is prior agreement on the content, and in this case there is no minimum approximation or dialogue to arrive at a prior agreement, and the resulting text is not entirely satisfactory and, of course, it is clear – as has already been said – that the debate is stolen, prevents the agreement, does not allow for the introduction of improvements and the only possibility of amending the draft law dealt with by this procedure, of single reading, is to present an amendment to the whole with alternative text. That's why the Galician Nationalist Block did so, because we believe this bill is likely to improve. It seems to us that the abuse of the People's Party, which makes the People's Party, of this procedure, responds to how it understands what the Greek Parliament is subordinated to the interests of the Executive, the interests of the Greek Government, the exclusive interests of the People's Party, where it takes the matter to everything or nothing, or you accept the text as it stands or the rejection as it is. Of course, it seems to us that this is not a functioning which responds to a democratic understanding of what must be a parliament, where it must dominate the capacity for dialogue or, at least, to present the proposals that each political group may have. That's why we're going to protest, too, against this processing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u114	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. For from the Socialist Parliamentary Group very briefly, simply to regret, once again, the use and abuse which the Government of Feijóo, with the complicity of the People's Parliamentary Group, makes this procedure of single reading. I would like to say that it is difficult and restricts the possibility of incorporating the contributions of other parliamentary groups, thus preventing the enrichment of legislative texts; which is why we believe that this procedure should only be used in very specific circumstances. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, we have announced our vote against the single reading process of a law, simply for the creation of a professional school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u116	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I mean that the processing of a single-reading bill is totally legal and adjusted to the Rules of Procedure of this House, to Article 134, as are those of the rest of the State. From the Popular Parliamentary Group we think this article is being scrupulously fulfilled in this bill. This is a single text, referred to in a single theme, short, with four articles that only fill a leaflet. It is a text proposed by professionals who demand the creation of this school for their public interest, defending their professional actions against the intrusion we all know exists, and to achieve an improvement in the health of people who need their intervention to improve or solve the physical and psychological problems and sequelae that limit their abilities. In order not to present this project to this plenary, ladies and gentlemen, it would involve a delay of months in the processing of this law, an unjustifiable delay in the presence of the Galaga Professional Association of Occupational Therapists who has been working, and much, in collecting all the information and documentation, in presenting it at the Vice-President's Council, in meeting with the Vice-President and with the voices of the various groups, and who would not understand that this simple project was delayed, due to the foreseeable dissolution of this House, which can be avoided by the single reading procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. It has already been said in this House, in the past full, that you have not asked for the amendment of Article 134 of the Single Reading Regulation in the process of reforming the Regulation, and now you do not like it. You are also aware that during this legislation, forty-four bills have been brought to this House and seven have been processed for single reading, which rejects allegations of abuse of this procedure by the House. For all this, we don't understand his position and we will support the single reading process. Therefore, for Members and Members of the opposition who do not support this process, the question is clear, do you want to have a school of occupational therapists in Galicia as there are already in other 12 autonomous communities, yes or no? That's what we're going to vote for at some point in time, and I think that occupational therapy professionals, who have done a long job collecting signatures and processing this application, deserve to be supported by this procedure to speed up the creation of their school. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u117	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. We therefore vote on the proposal for a procedure for the single reading of the bill. Voting of the proposal for a single reading procedure for the draft law establishing the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 29. The voting is positive. The proposal for a single reading procedure is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u118	We therefore move on to the debate itself and to the vote on the draft law by means of a single reading procedure. And for that, you have the floor, to present the bill, the vice president and councillor, Public Administrations and Justice, Mr Rueda Valenzuela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting to the House the draft law on the creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy in Galicia. We introduced it because there was a previous request, moved to Galician Council by the professionals themselves who are so far grouped into the Professional Association of Occupational Health and Social Security Therapy in Galicia, and we believe there are powerful reasons for this presentation. That's why I'm not going to ask you to vote favourably on behalf of the Greek Government, which too, but in this case we are merely acting as intermediaries, on behalf of the professional persons of occupational therapy in Galicia who have signed their conformity for the creation of this school. As the Association itself exposes in writing that on its day presented before the Galician Union, 88% – i.e. not 100%, but approaching enough – is in favour of the creation of this school and they ask that this creation be done. We believe in the Greek Government that in the face of such a majority complaint of these people, Parliament must listen carefully to them and must join in their request, especially when the reasons they come with it we think they are an entity. First of all, there is a reason which is quite obvious, and which has already been said here. You're not very right, it doesn't seem very reasonable that there is a professional school of occupational therapists already in twelve autonomous communities and that there was not in Galicia. Nor would it be reasonable for a general council of schools of occupational therapists to exist at the state level, whose creation was unanimously approved in the General Courts two years ago, so it would not be logical for the same political groups, and that the same political parties, which in their day adopted a general council of schools at the state level – I insist, unanimously –, now wanted to deny the Greek professionals their own college of therapists. But in addition to the reasons for territorial coherence, and even political coherence, we believe that there are sufficient reasons to want the professional therapists in Galicia to have an instrument that is very important for the future, already for the present, but especially for the future. For almost three years now, the Galician Union has approved the Strategy for the early detection and prevention of the Galician dependency, which was a roadmap that was going up to 2020; therefore, it is still in force, and is designed not only to care for dependent people, but also to try to extend their capabilities and personal autonomy to the fullest extent. In this document, there was already an allusion – specific allusions, in addition to the role that the occupational therapy had to play in order to achieve this objective that older people and people with disabilities can be autonomous and can take advantage of themselves as long as possible. Thus, in 2014, we also amended the Community Social Services Decree to include, since that year, the care included in the Home Help Service, occupational therapy. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are a country with a problem of population aging, with a serious, very serious problem of population aging, and that's why it's essential for our future to have professionals who promote active aging and organized professionals in order to develop their activity in the best possible conditions. So the Social Policy Council is working on an active ageing strategy for which it needs to interact with all actors, and that these are organized. And that better interlocutor – we think – than a representative school of the most involved people, or some of the most involved people, in this prolongation of the active life of the older people. But it's just that, in addition, people who are engaged in occupational therapy don't only care for older people. In 2015 Junta developed a protocol to coordinate early care in Galicia and it is also told by the occupational therapists of Sergas as fundamental resources of the Galician Network of Temperá Care. This network aims to address children with difficulties or disabilities, children and children who, if they did not have adequate treatment, in which occupational therapy is fundamental, would be at risk of developing, later, a dependency situation. For these children and children, we also want to have the most professional occupational therapy professionals, better trained, more united and more organized. For these children and for these children, therefore, it's also important to set up this school. You know that Law 11/2001, of professional schools in Galicia, establishes in Article 11 that in the area of the Greek territory the creation of professional schools will be done by law of the Galician Parliament, and that when the initiative comes from the Council of the United States the draft law of creation will be made at the request of the professionals concerned, prior to perception – as it was – by the Greek Government of public interest in the creation of the school. Consequently, when in January of this year, a few months ago, the president and vice-president of the Galaga de Therapetas Association exposed this majority support – as I mentioned earlier – from nearly 90%, from the Junta we laid hands on the work. The process of drafting the draft law began, the motivational exposition was based on the reasons that justified the creation of the school that brought us closer to the professionals, through the association, and we started to take steps. The next step was to submit to the public information the request for school creation, as was done on the transparency portal since February 2016. No claims were received against and preliminary reports were subsequently requested to the corresponding bodies: General Directorate for Budgets, General Legal Counsel and General Secretariat for Equality. But we also have two reports that I think are important, one from the Health Council and one from the Social Policy Council, which focuses on the importance of occupational therapy professionals being organized by the fundamental work they are working on with regard to public health and public policies in the social services sector. Finally, we also received the reports of the Galician Council of Competition and the Economic and Social Council, which are, of course, two bodies which, as a rule, are opposed or, at least, not favourable to the creation of this type of school, but which in this case have endorsed the bill, because they have taken into account that, on the one hand, there is no provision for compulsory collegiation, we simply remit ourselves – as could not be less – to the framework of a state law – would be compulsory if it was given a state law, if not, and, on the other hand, it is estimated that it is a fair demand of the group of therapists of Galicia to be equated with the professionals of the rest of the State – it says both the Galician Council of Competition and the Economic and Social Council. There is, therefore, a clear trend towards the collection of these professionals, which I think is sufficiently justified, since we are dealing with a profession which fundamentally affects the defence and promotion of public health. A year ago, ladies and gentlemen, we dealt with another project that was practically very similar, almost identical, which was the Law of the creation of the College of Dietists-Nutritionists. They know that last May these professionals, after the creation of this school, celebrated their constituent assembly and their school was definitely created and are already functioning as such. These professionals were celebrated as a historic day for their profession, and I ask you, on behalf of the German Government, to this House, which today all groups give professionals of occupational therapy the opportunity to have a historic day for their professional future. Since June we did what we thought was fair to do, we have done and drafted the draft law and it has been approved at the board of directors since we were introduced in January. So after this text I have to say that – I think it is clear – there is no other intention that I would like to reflect and shape a very majority of professional people who want to practice their profession in the best possible conditions. I therefore believe that the German Parliament should contribute to this wish, which will undoubtedly also result in a better performance of its activities and in a better provision of social and public health policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u120	Thank you, Vice President. The role of defence of amendments to the whole, as well as the position on the bill. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u121	Thank you, President. The Joint Group has tabled an amendment for the return of this bill. It is true that by Organic Law 16/1995 of 27 December, on the transfer of competences to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the legislative and enforcement powers were transferred in the field of law corporations, representative corporations, economic and professional interests. Article 11 of Law 11/2001 also provides that, within the framework of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, the creation of professional schools will be done by law of the Greek Parliament. So today we have the responsibility to approve, or not, the creation of a new professional school that – to my understanding, and beyond other considerations – does not respond to any public interest. And besides, it was asked by one part of the professionals and they don't know what the position on the other side is, why it didn't support the creation of the school. So we're going to approve the request of a part of the professionals. Also Law 11/2001, of professional schools, states in Article 3 that professionals entitled to public administration will not need to be collected, although they will be required to collect for the exercise of private activity. It is therefore clear that the existence or not of professional schools, in general, does not affect anything about the quality of the provision of the professional services that they represent, nor is it their public interest, since unless the collection would be compulsory for both the workers and employees of the Public Administration and those who perform their professional work in private entities. Rather, schools represent corporate associations that have the sole purpose of defending the corporate interests of their professional colleges, not even of all professionals, but that they are, simply, the colleges; that is, nothing has this of public interest. Article 7 of the School Law speaks of the exercise of powers and collaboration with the Administration and says that the Autonomous Community may entrust to the professional schools, through the corresponding convention, the carrying out of activities of a material, technical or service nature of its own competence, which could be brought forward by the Administration itself. In this sense, the ESC, in its ruling of 9 October 2000, on the preliminary draft law on professional schools, recommended and expressed its reservation on the necessity of the existence of these representative bodies of professional interests, corporately, to defend the interests of a given profession and to assume actions that should be exercised by the administration itself. Article 9 also of that law, it speaks of which functions are, and its functions are the defense of the profession, exercise disciplinary power, exercise legal actions to avoid intrusion, establish barriers and honoraries by violating collective bargaining and the role of trade unions. But it is not understood in this bill that the Competition Council denies itself and contradicts what it said when it referred to the creation of the Professional College of Dietists-Nutritionists. He then said and recommended the Board of Trustees that he had not passed the Bill on the creation of the College of Dietists-Nutritionists for constituting an entry barrier to the exercise of a professional activity which is not provided for the achievement of the legitimate purpose of protecting health. So – I think the time is up, the two Members of the Joint Group, who belong to Cerna, will vote against this bill, because we believe that it does not benefit society at all and that it only benefits the corporate interests of those professionals who are collected, uniquely and exclusively. For my part, nothing else, I give the floor to my companion in the group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. I now turn to Mrs Iglesias. Give a voice to Mrs. Iglesias' chair, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u123	Thank you, President. Thanks to the Bureau for allowing me to show my position on this point 3.2, occupational therapists. I'm going to vote that if the proposal is yes, I've already voted that it is the proposal for processing, because I think it's good to do so, because there's little legislation left. And gathered with the professionals of this collective of occupational therapy, a profession closely linked to health and occupation of people, I understand their need for college; because given the private or concerted service character of companies that hold the ownership of care services for older people, it is not possible to know the total number of professionals who perform this work in our country. Moreover, this difficulty is compounded by the fact that there is no body that regulates the exercise of this profession, which favors intrusion. The creation of the vocational school will allow the promotion and dissemination of this discipline. And to remember here in this Parliament, right now, that the profession titled in Galicia has a very high... it is very well known throughout Europe, it has a great prestige for the Greek title. And in this way the defense of the rights of Galician citizenship has equal access to the services of occupational therapy, regardless of the place of origin of the pathology that is going on. This will prevent intrusion and favor the professionals and professionals who do this work. I'm going to vote in favour. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u124	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u125	Good morning. I want to start by saying here to the Vice-President of the Union and the People's Party Member who spoke at the previous point that demagoxy is not a good companion. And listening carefully, Mr. Rueda, it doesn't mean imposing a drafting, and the People's Party is imposing with this processing, by single reading, is a specific text. So we can all be in favour of demands that have been transferred by the occupational therapists, but we are opposed to having to be placed solely in respect of the text exclusively by the Galician Government of the People's Party. I'm saying that because things seem good to me to clarify them. And I would also like to make an initial consideration. You said here that the work of occupational therapists and therapists is fundamental, of course, in the BNG we agree. And we agree with the concern – and I want to greet them, who are there in the gallery – that these professionals show about the devaluation of the profession, about intrusion, about misleading advertising, about the very few squares in Galicia's public network. But let me tell you, Mr. Vice-President of the Board, that when you say here that in the Strategy for Dependency there is a great need for occupational therapists, and the relevance given to them by the Health Council, I don't know if what you mean is that after the official school is approved here, it will mean that there will automatically be an increase in RPTs and that they will include professionals in public health. Because if you're not running here in an uncommon demagogy and out of serial electoralism. Because I remind you, for example, that in Sergas there are only 38 professionals, that there are health areas that have not one professional, there are hospitals that have not one occupational therapist. So, beyond saying how important we all agree, it would be good if I told you if this approval was going to result in this increase in the public network, which I'm afraid will not. And there it would be, indeed, where the Galician Union should be thrown, in recognizing the enormous need of these and these professionals and that there was a sufficient number to meet these very important demands, both in the dependent population and in people subject to all kinds of difficulties – whether by accident, survival or birth with them –. That's why I want to express the concern that BNG has because the creation of professional schools is made the demand of part. And when there's a collective who asks for it, a collective who wants to enhance and recognize their profession, who wants to have equal opportunities, but who is not the result of planning by the Greek administration, so do. And that the creation of new professional schools should respond to a thought-provoking design of which must be the German corporate administration, and not simply the object of an individualized request. The justification for creation is based, first, on the objective of ensuring the legitimate professional interests of occupational therapists. And, of course, I want to tell you, I moved it to you when you meet them, which does not respond to the model of the Galician Nationalist Block. At the BNG we consider that trade union organisations must – and we believe they do so perfectly – already carry out this task, and that the ESC also has an impact on that issue. And I also remind you that when you said that the ESC and the Galician Council of Competition are in favour, what they say is that they comply with the law, that they are legal – they would only need to bring something that is not legal here – which is a demand from professionals; that is, in fact, one more demand, but there are many clear dark ones, and so they reflect it in their reports, it is obvious that they reflect it. And in this regard, the ESC says, textually, that: "The Galician Economic and Social Council expresses its reservations about the necessity of the existence of entities other than associations or trade unions representing professional interests and public-law corporations that are set up to defend the interests of a given profession". That is to say, they consider that other instruments already exist for this matter. Secondly, creation is also justified in responding to general interest. And in the BNG we also coincided with the protests by the ESC and the Galician Competition Council, which make the reports of the National Competition Commission, which is also doubtful that this general interest is recognized. In any case, as the Association of Occupational Therapists started this process, which demands the creation of professional school, because they understand that it is a better way to protect and defend their interests and those of the collective to whom their profession is headed, because in BNG, every time this is an exceptional procedure that does not allow us to introduce amendments – and we believe that there are issues, that are not in the text, that if it is necessary to improve – we present an alternative text that collects those issues that we believe should be improved. Starting with the elimination of consideration of public interest, the correction of sexist language – which, of course, we demand once again that it is entrepreneurship that texts continue to come to this House with a sexist language. And we ask that, please, the German Government, when I present here texts that there are no longer, once and for all, to have to demand that correction. There is also an alternative text to consider the non-compulsoryness of the collection, where the use of the English language is introduced; we are in a Welsh law in the Greek Parliament, and it is not to be accepted that this question is not considered. Also an alternative text so that this legislative text is not subject to a Spanish legislative framework, and then so that gender parity is seen in management organs. Finally, we are presenting an alternative text to improve the presentation by the Government, and we believe that what the BNG is presenting will improve those issues. First of all, Article 4 presents a change in the sense that the original text says that the collection at the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia is voluntary, without in any case – this is the alternative text that presents the BNG – can be regarded as a requirement or condition for the exercise of professional activity. We believe that at this point it can't be an individual collection. The text presented here by the German Government is ambiguous and is subject to state legislation. We don't think that ambiguity is necessary at all. Now, indeed, in the processing of the Official College of Nutritionists we talk about this matter, we don't need to leave it to ambiguity, it must be made clear that it is not obligatory to collect, that all those professionals who consider that colleges better defend their interests, that they can do more, must make it clear that this cannot be any advantage over those who are not collected, and that it must not be compulsory, and we must defend it in a very vehement way. We also want to make it clear that there is no need for a sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of thing to be left, explicitly, subordination to state legislation, there's no need to do it this way. If at any given time there is a state legislation that needs to be adapted to the regulations, it can be done, but it should not stay, it has no need beyond that we are in the presence of a German Government that feels a genuine Spanish Government delegate and does not want to have a genuine legislative role; that's the only reason, there's no legislative reason to force that wording. We also refer in this alternative text to the question that in the Commission, the Editorial Manager, as he is, says that a balance of genres is being sought. In the BNG, we believe that these things can't be kept looking, so we have to be proactive, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u127	...we present – finished, president – is an alternative writing, where what is said to be gender parity, there must be gender parity, there must be gender parity, we must not look for it, we must be proactive and there must be gender parity. We have introduced in that alternative text an article 5 referring to the language of the school, which Galicia's own language, the Greek, must be used in both internal and external matters of the school; we are in Galicia, it is a norm, a law of this Parliament, and we believe that this issue must be reflected. In short, the alternative text presented by the Galego Nationalist Block is corrected in its question of non-sexist language, even has an amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u129	...in the aspect of a decree that the ESC asks it to be mentioned or rectified, because it says it's from July 4th, when it's from October 26th, and not even this question if it's taken into account when presenting the text, they do the things "to the tran tran", no way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u130	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u131	We believe that it substantially improves the matter. BNG will not oppose the processing of the creation of this school, but if we believe that the changes that BNG presents would be greatly improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u132	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u133	Thank you, President. First of all, I regret – as the previous spokesperson did – the demagogy employed by Mr. Rueda, as well as by the spokesperson of the People's Party, but mainly by this second, moving that he did not agree with the procedure used in the processing – worth the redundancy – of this text implied that he did not support the demands of the professionals; it is a very torturing use. The reality is that you have had two laws to process this project of creation of this school, but since they and they moved it to them in January, you could have avoided processing by this extraordinary procedure. We understood that the presentation was necessary and, right now, I will explain specifically why. This is a small law, indeed, but contrary to what it may seem or justify the use of the single read procedure, as it has just moved here, because since the law is small, precisely, it would be a presentation that would not last very long and would therefore favor, first, that the law, the text, if it could improve and, at the same time, that it would be approved with speed. So it is you – from the People's Party – who have decided to delay the process of this law, you have it on the table since January, according to the proposal of the professionals themselves. Therefore, I would pray a little serious. On the contrary, their express processing prevents us, the opposition parliamentary groups, from making partial amendments to improve it, just as we move it when we vote on the single reading procedure. This parliamentarian has also drafted an alternative text, which is because of a computer problem she hasn't entered in time, she has come in a little later, but in general terms I'm going to realize a little bit of the discrepancies we have with some aspects. The reality is that by not facilitating the processing of the presentation, they don't include even technical amendments, there are misspelled words, there are capital letters, there are lowercase letters, there is a job of the singular male in almost all the text, in some parts the two genres are used, in others only one, quite arbitrarily. It's very poorly drafted, and we understand that the Council of Galicia should present projects that also embrace that spirit that often appoint equality and cross-sectionally in all legislative procedures. So we understand what things are small if they could improve and get out of the project as the professionals deserve. But in addition to all this, we have already manifested during the processing of the Dietist-Nutritionist Bill the importance of collegiation is not mandatory. And if well in the text it appears conditional on a state-owned law, it appears in a negative way. We would like it to be considered in a positive way, as we request in the processing of the other legal text, that is to say, it appears in several articles, in which reference is made, explicitly, that the collection will not be mandatory, except that there is a higher-ranking law that requires, but not vice versa, that is how it appears drafted in this law and how it happened, too, in the other bill already discussed in the previous session period. And, of course, we miss the fact that the creation of a professional census is not included, as if it were proposed in the other project, regardless of whether the Professional Association of Occupational Caregivers already exists in this case, but regardless of that, it would be relevant if that census was made for the time, after that, to facilitate that accession or not to that professional school. The text also lacks the need not only for the publication of the final statutes in the Official Journal of Galicia, but also for its registration in the register of official schools. We don't understand why he's not coming, and if he comes in the rest of the creation texts of other schools that we've been discussing here. That's why I said that ordinary processing was necessary, in order to be able to clean up these aspects which, for whatever reason, do not appear in the law. It will not be this Member who defends professional schools, we have moved it again. They are not our model, we agree with some of the comments of the Galician Economic and Social Council itself, and this group understands, in addition, that there are other mechanisms for defending professional rights, among them the free trade union, which is what we defend. Now, as we have already moved on the other occasion, allowing the existence of professional schools in health and other professions not, obviously it would consider or would be a comparative harm to these professionals, and therefore, in this sense, and as we already manifested ourselves when we meet with them, not being advocates of the model of professional schools, we will not oppose the processing of this school, as we did not do when we went on dietists-nutritionists. And, therefore, in that sense, there's not going to be any kind of problem. But we understand that now, whenever this law is passed and if you believe the school, it is up to the Greek Government to really intend to defend this profession and the rest of the health professions. Among other things, because, as you know, the creation of a law that allows the creation of a professional school does not imply any improvement, as let's say, of the conditions in which these professionals are. I mean, it's the administration itself that should be taken care of, here are reasons why these professionals and these professionals are important. However, it does not seem clear that counsellors are concerned about these aspects, because the number of professionals, occupational therapists in our social services and health services is really small. And so it must be the Health Council, in this case, not only to worry about creating the doors of an electoral process, of a professional school, but also to ensure the existence of these professionals and their application, in redundancy, of the improvement in the quality of life of dependents and people with functional and cognitive diversity in our country. And, therefore, obviously, this group understands that this is incompatible with the cuts in human and material resources, and budgetary, suffered in health matters in recent years. So there remains this reflection and, of course, we understand that the relevance of the adoption of this school does not conflict with the relevance, too, of respect for ordinary parliamentary procedures. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u135	Thank you, President. Good day again, gentlemen. Counselor. Good morning, too, to the occupational therapy professionals who accompany us today. Very briefly, simply to announce our support for this draft law for the creation of the College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia, such support that we have already committed to the Professional Association of Therapists last February, when we were visited in this same House. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will not question, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of this school, since it is the professional collective who claims it. Nor are we going to question whether or not this is a profession of public interest, since occupational therapy is collected as a health activity in the 2003 Health Professional Management Act. What if we question is that the text of the law, with four articles and three provisions, does not collect the volunteerity of the collection as clearly as we would like, contains it in a confusing way, and also leaves it conditioned to what is done in the state. And we also question that when we talk about the perspective of gender, we use a sexist language, a masculine language, Mr. Rueda, which is your responsibility, there you skate a little, once again. And what, of course, we question is this single reading formula, as well as this presentation of this bill comes to this House at the time of discount of the legislation, when these professionals have been fighting for the creation of that school for years. That's why we wonder what will be the reason for this bill to come now, for it to come now that it ends the legislation, when it was already presented in 2014 at the council the memory necessary to request the creation of that school. Years that have been fighting professionals for their school, and these last two years, in particular, writing letters to everyone, seeking support, to the people's valet, to the president of the board. I would like the Government, in this case the Member of the People's Parliamentary Group who will then intervene, to explain to us the reasons for this delay. But as I'm sure you won't, after listening to Mr. Rueda, I will. I understand that the delay of this bill is the lack of interest for these professionals. And the rush of bringing it now in the time of discount, and by an express procedure, is nothing other than electoral proximity. And I'm saying this because other laws that brought about the same procedure have always been close to election campaigns. And in addition to the proximity of elections, I also think that it can influence the fact that it's an easy text, a quick text, a text that has no cost to the Government, and so you can introduce a more law to comply with the number of laws. It's very clear, here we can say a lot of things, but ultimately the truth is what it is. What is about being able to comply with the number of laws that you committed to doing in this legislation, so, as we have half an hour left, we're going to make the ease. That's the only reason. Because if you were really worried about this profession, they wouldn't have been waiting for us all that long. It doesn't make sense they didn't remember the therapists when they discussed the creation of the last school, the College of Dietists-Nutritionists. By the way, from our group we put it on the table in that debate. Moreover, if they were really concerned about this collective, about this profession, they would respect us a little and look at us properly in all public services where they have to be. Because Mr. Rueda told us that in paper – but unfortunately only in paper – they do very good or very good work in the care and appraisal of older people, of course; in the care and education of children and children, of course. But, Mr. Rueda, I have not heard a word, a word, something that seems very serious to me, because – I insist – it is your responsibility, and always forgets it, that of equality; you have not mentioned them at the CIM, or at the attention of women victims of gender violence, where they do a very interesting job. What a curious forgetfulness, Mr. Rueda! So I'm done. We're going to support the creation of this school, even though it's late for us and it's bad for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning to the people representing the Association of Occupational Therapists who are in the grade. The creation of this professional school is today a demand of the professionals of the collective, represented so far by the Galaga Professional Association of Occupational Therapy, to whom I really thank, their presence, in addition to all their concern and their work to achieve their objective of approving this law in this legislation. And I would like to customize this work of the entire collective in Andrea – the president who cannot be present today – who has contacted this spokesman after the adoption of the Dietist School Act, and with whom they have held different meetings as president of the association, and in Paula, secretary of the same, who is today in this Chamber. This bill was passed at the board of directors of the 23rd meeting last June. The reasons for the creation of this professional school are set out in the explanatory memorandum. It's clear that he's in general interest, though some fellows don't seem to want to see it. It is founded on effective protection of the right to health, allowing professionals to integrate into an organization capable of ordering the exercise of the profession, controlling compliance with deontological standards to protect the interests of users in the development of the activities of these professionals. Indeed, it has already been said here about the schools there are, are twelve in twelve autonomous communities, and the General Council at the state level. Since 1990 there has been a degree as a therapist, since 2009 there has been a degree in university degrees, which are the valid qualifications, in principle, plus the qualifications to exercise this profession. It is also included in health professions, and they have functions such as the application of techniques and the carrying out of activities of an occupational nature, which tend to enhance or supplement physical or psychic functions, diminished or lost, and to guide and stimulate the development of such functions. In fact, the law is a very short law and it has four articles and a few additional provisions. In January 2016 it was when the Galaga Professional Association of Occupational Therapists presented to the Vice-President a letter of application for the creation of their professional school, which corrected and completed the documentation that had been submitted with the previous July application of 2014. They add, too, a complete, justifiable memory of the convenience and the reasons for requesting the creation of the professional school. A complete analysis of legal texts affecting this profession, the different functions and areas of action of therapists, which are basically: health care, socio-health, education, counselling and the teaching field of occupational therapy studies themselves. Today, most occupational therapists work in caring for older people. They justify the need for collegiation by highlighting the safety of users of the service, who are attended by qualified and qualified professionals, membership of the deontological code of professionals, the fight against intrusion and continuing training. As for the justification of the needs for creating a school in Galicia, they also include the high number of promotions of graduates and graduates in therapy at the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Coruña, defense, representation, assistance and management for the benefit of professionals, and the promotion, publication and dissemination of occupational therapy before public administrations, institutions, entities and other collectives. In the DOG of 4 March 2016, the announcement of public information is published – because, ladies and gentlemen, we have to put it on public information and we have to ask for reports, and since January before these dates, I think it was not too easy – and there is no claim to this text. And if the corresponding reports are drawn up, the economic justification memory of Vice-Presidentship, the gender impact report issued by the General Secretariat of Equality, which makes some considerations that come forward and appear in the preliminary draft and project, and the financial sustainability report, which shows that there is no economic cost. And not only does the Health Council not make comments, but it issues a favourable report, like the Social Policy Council, which qualifies the initiative as positive and valuable for the social services sector. The Galician Council of Competition informs the project favourably, despite the adjustment to legality, which does not prevent a further examination of the adequacy of the future statutes of the school of therapists. The General Sub-Directorate of Juridical Regime of the Presidency also informs the preliminary draft and the Economic and Social Council – as on another previous occasion that I have had to live – expresses its reservations about the necessity of the existence of entities such as schools other than associations and trade unions representing professional interests. It reiterates each and every one of the considerations it presented on the basis of the adoption of the Law of the creation of the College of Dietists-Nutritionists. Let's talk about the amendments. We're not going to accept the amendment to return the Joint Group, because we think there's no reason why we don't justify the creation of this professional school. It is really clear that the group is mixed, is it not? because Mrs Iglesias asked Mr Vice-President and she is in favour of creating the school, and the other two Members are against that. Of course, they're against the collection against the unions; I'm, of course, collected and affiliated to a union. I don't think they're absolutely incompatible, Mrs. Martínez. And with regard to the amendment with alternative BNG text, we're not going to accept either. He doesn't recognize public interest, and if there's no public interest, there can be no school. He talks about volunteering, which I leave for the end to answer to Mrs. Acuña, and I say, on entry, that the voluntary and compulsory concept cannot be explained in the law, because it can involve, and in fact has already passed, the law being passed by the Government of the State. If we propose, with the prior acceptance of all groups, the possibility of trading an article 4bis with Article 5 of its alternative text, the text of the BNG, the same text approved in the Dietists-Nutritionists Act in relation to the use of Greek, which says: "The use of Greek in communications. The Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia shall seek and encourage the use of Welsh in all its communications, both internal and external, as set out in the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia and the regulation of linguistic normalization." We call for this transaction to be voted on separately from the rest of the amendment of the BNG Group and the alternative text. With regard to strict gender parity, we have to say that the suggestions of the General Secretariat of Equality have been applied to the law. As a matter of fact, it also affects the absolute predominance of women in this professional group, which I understand would severely hinder the fulfilment of this parity. And speaking of the delay in the processing of the law, the law was delayed because in Madrid it was announced the future adoption of a law of professional services and schools, which could affect the development of this law, as in the rest of the state, and they were virtually paralyzed throughout the state. And speaking of the collection, in this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, a number of laws of professional schools were passed in the mandate of the Bipartite which were compulsory, including the jewelers. And in 2009 a government that was not from the People's Party, Mr Zapatero's Government, passed a law on the transposition of the European Services Directive, which uses to amend the Law on Professional Schools, and withdraws the powers of autonomous communities to decide on the nature or non-compulsory nature of colleges. Did I tell you, Mrs. Acuña? This is the reason for volunteering, i.e., that the law is not used. I finish by repeating the congratulations and recognition of the work done by the Galega Association of Occupational Therapists. Really, very grateful. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u138	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica of amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez. Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u139	Well, to me the first question that happens to me is, why? Why do you have to create this professional school? Because, as someone has said, it's an aggravation with other professions that exist colleges. Obviously, it's neither a reason nor a social interest nor the social benefit that it produces; therefore, it's not a legal reason to make it up for that reason. So I still don't know what the interest in creating this and other schools is. Are uncollected professionals worse? What's the difference? The Competition Council speaks of collegiation, it makes it clear that the professionals in college are better professionals than the others. So somehow you're going to force the collection. Is the attention paid to users by professionals who are or are they not?, will they change the quality of the benefit depending on whether or not there is a school? I think, of course, no, therefore, there is also no reason for creation. I would like to know what the reasons behind the creation and proliferation of professional schools are. Is school the only one that can guarantee continuing training of professionals today? I understand not, I understand that the government itself has to worry about this continuing training, as well as the centres where they develop their professional activity. So I don't understand that this is not a reason to create a school. And if it's contrary to the class struggle, it's contrary to the rights and interests of most of the working class. I, which proceeds from health, know that health is syndically dead, many times, because each profession has its corporate union, there is no union; each one defends its corporate interests, and so the IGC, IGC-Health, led a struggle for the DUE decolegiation, until the law 2001 was approved, where the public health professionals do not have to be collected necessarily, but it has already responded to the administration itself. But there has been a union struggle against collections, which I see is not supported by most of this House, which I regret. I'm going to vote against it. I am very sorry that the opposition does not see that we are prolonging and that we are supporting the creation of structures that do not benefit the majority of society, and that the only thing that they do is divide the struggle of the working class into centers, essentially health care. We shall therefore, without further delay, vote against and hope that one day a healthy debate will be held in this House on whether or not professional schools are needed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado. Give your voice to the scene... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u141	Thank you, President. BNG will accept this transaction proposed by the People's Party. It is not enough, of course, to answer what we believe is the minimum one to consider regarding the use of the Welsh language in Galicia at an official Galician school, but, as it is a small step forward with regard to the fact that there is not a single mention in the text of the use of the Greek language, we are going to accept it. And said this, since there is this possibility of transaction, in agreement with all the groups – i.e., it is an exceptional mechanism – I regret that – if possible – the People's Party is unable to rectify at least. Because it is clear that, especially on the subject of compulsory collection, the text, as it is presented, gives rise to the misunderstanding, and is drafted to give rise to the misunderstanding. That's why, because to say that the profession of occupational therapist, with a single professional home, the main in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, will require the incorporation into the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia, that's what will require the incorporation; and then it says, "When it establishes a state law." Why is this writing necessary? Because they want to leave it ambiguously. Why not the alternative wording presented by the BNG?, which says: "The College of Official Occupational Therapy College of Galician Workers is voluntary, without the fact that in any case it can be regarded as a requirement or condition for the exercise of professional activity." It should be clearly established that it is voluntary, you don't want to do so. Just as you will allow me, Mr. People's Party's Member, to tell you that the argument that they delayed processing because they were pending a state law we bought it a year ago in the processing of the College of Dietists. Please! Update arguments. That argument has already released it and we've already bought it, a year later we can't buy it the same argument; i.e., there's no political will. So, well, I said this – as I said before – BNG won't oppose this processing, although it's not our model. We think he didn't respond to official schools, at another time and other needs; he's no other model today. But whenever the German Government and the state governments continue in this kind of limbo that they do not really want to establish, what is the real administrative input that responds to the current reality, and that professionals feel discriminated against in other places where they are regulated by official schools, it is why – I insist – we will not oppose the processing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law on the creation of provincial schools of economists by merger of schools of traders and economists existing in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u143	There are no amendments to this debate. First, we will do this with a presentation by the chairman of the committee, and then a single time of the parliamentary groups around eight minutes. The President of Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs shall speak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The bill just mentioned by Mr President – and whose title I am not going to repeat – was entered in the Galician Parliament Register on 13 May 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 18 May, admitted this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to attend by the First Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs Commission. The amendments to the articulation presented, qualified by the Bureau of the Commission 1st and published in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament of 8 June 2016 were fifteen amendments; in particular, three from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Socialists and twelve from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Commission 1st appointed the following rapporteurs: by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs. Maria Teresa Cancelo Marquez; by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Ms. María Soledad Soneira Tajes; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, Ms. Maria Teresca Peace Franco; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia, Ms. Anton Sánchez García; and by the Mixed Group, Mrs. María Consuelo Martínez. The panel discussion took place on 13 June 2016. Subsequently, and after successive meetings, he prepared his report, which was the subject of discussion and adoption at the 1st meeting of the Committee on 1 July present, and all the recommendations gathered by the panel were ratified. That is what the debate of this plenary is having today for its approval, if it is considered appropriate. Nothing else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Baamonde. We started the round of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez. From the scene. Give a voice to Mrs. Martínez's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u146	Thank you, President. Yes, very briefly, because I think all the argument about collegiation, and need or not, is debated in the previous bill. If I want to add here a little bit, we're just talking about the creation of a school, but about the fusion of two existing schools, which reinforces my theory of the anachronism of schools, about the non-connection to reality, when now schools have to start to merge because, of course, today's world is not the world of a hundred years ago. The guilds are not so clear and the responsibilities and functions of the different professions intertwine and are unable to function without each other; therefore, in this matter we are not going to vote against. We still agree with the ESC's concern about the proliferation of professional schools. The same ESC says that it does not see its need when there are already trade unions to defend the interests of professionals and professionals. And, therefore, just announce that we will abstain from this bill. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez. Give Mr. Sánchez a voice, please. [[Pause.]] Yes, please, the services of the House, give voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u148	Well, I'm very briefly not going to waste time, and it's not because we have a full marathon to save time, but because we're going to support the dictatorship. It is also not a bill that has greater political depth – we believe –. The merger of the College of Market Economists and Holders is believed to be aimed at improving efficiency and efficiency in the achievement of the objectives that must be met by public law corporations, both in the defence of colleges and consumers and users. And in fact, we don't have a refund amendment, or partial amendments to the text. Therefore, nothing but our support.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u149	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, or good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning and welcome to the people accompanying us from Parliament's rostrum for this debate, representatives of the people on whose school today we are debating in this Parliament. In fact, this law does not seek the creation of any professional school, but simply to endorse the merger of provincial schools of business owners and economists, decided, previously, by the protagonists themselves, by the different colleges of different schools. In addition to what Mr Sánchez pointed out to adapt to a new moment from a social point of view, he was also concerned about the need to adapt to the new framework of titrations currently in existence after Bologna in the European Union as a whole and also in the Spanish state. The Galician Nationalist Block voted in favour of taking this bill into consideration and we tabled amendments to its articulate, which we have already removed from the previous committee procedure. Because – as I explained at that time – these were amendments simply that we presented to provide for a debate, to bear witness in this House, at the end of the legislation, from which we have created – from our point of view – that should be the horizon towards what these four professional schools had walked with the approval of this law. All the amendments presented by the Galician Nationalist Block had a single driving thread, and that's what we thought this had to be a Greek professional school with the structure that later, of course, the colleges decided in the future; but that had to be the point of arrival. We were fully aware that it was not legally possible at the time we were debating those amendments, because it was possible to reverse the whole process already carried out by the respective schools that are now merged through this law. And, of course, that wasn't the claim of the Galician Nationalist Block, to undo any path that had already been taken by schools. We understand, in addition, that when it comes to a process of a certain complexity, from a bureaucratic, administrative point of view, to accommodate work habits, forms of work, etc., of different schools, it is possibly much more intelligent, or much more practical, to take small steps; but – in any case – we wanted to bear witness that this should be the horizon. And with these amendments, we wanted to make this call not only to Members and Members who in the future occupy the seats of this House, but also to those who must be the real protagonists of this process, who are the members and members of the College of Economists of the various schools of provincial economists who are created through this law. We therefore withdraw our amendments already in the previous committee procedure, which has not been maintained for this plenary session, we have voted in favour of the amendment in the committee. And, of course, in this plenary we will also vote in favour of the adoption of this project, which will soon become law and will give final consolidation to the decision already taken by different schools of trade and economists to unite. I just need – if all the representatives, or many, of these collectives are here – to wish them lots of luck and many successes on their new journey. Thank you very much and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira. Give a voice to Mrs. Soneira's chair, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to start with where Mrs. Paz finished, welcome the school representatives we merged here today. And if I may, in addition – from the time it is – say that, from what we are seeing, this law will have an overwhelmingly majority referendum by this House. And what this House, which is not very common in the country where we are, is that it doesn't separate some future velocities, because that's the way, which is to join efforts and goals. And we're going to pass this law for a number of reasons, first, because there's an agreement of the schools themselves that decide it in the assemblage, so they raise it to the public document and which is contained in the documentation we have in this law. So this is nothing to be imposed, but it arises separately and, of course, to adapt it to the basic legislation of the State; but also because there is a clear will, as it is shown by the agreements taken by the schools themselves, individually, of all members in their assemblies, and which translates into a clear will to unite and defend the collective and individual interests of their members into a stronger organization. And also because, according to them themselves, and also according to the documents that some of them – and which I thank them from our group – have given us, it is also very important for the exercise of their profession within the framework of the European Union. That is to say, this merger does, in some ways, homogenize the recognition of a profession that, in Spain, we say, had as two distinct vectors and that in many European countries interpret it in one direction. And in the common economic space of the European Union, on some occasions, the start of business projects, the opening of professional offices, and so on, because there was some difficulty. And then, too, almost selfishly, and here I want to thank the constructive spirit of collaboration of the rapporteur of the People's Group, which, ultimately, the majority group is what decides what is approved or not in this House, because that's what he has the ability, with his votes, to give the majority or not. And the amendments presented by this group – three – that did not interfere at all in the trunk part of what they were defending here and proposed the schools themselves that they want to merge, because they accepted two literally, one of them traded it, and I must say that even I think it has improved. I'm surprised, even in the previous debate that was here, because in this school, in particular, regardless of whether or not it was subordinated after what the state association says, it is recognized that the college is voluntary, and therefore we thank it. It also makes a distinction which is very important, is the application of the law of parity at all its ends, in a highly feminized profession, which is very important. Perhaps, perhaps in these schools in the future, the difficulty will be that in the percentage of men and women because they have a difficulty against men, but, finally, it will be a problem that, in any case, will have to solve them autonomously. So, Mr. President, we have nothing else to argue with. For us to repeat the debate we had in the committee, and, as I said at the outset, the Socialist Group will support this law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cancelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u154	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all, especially our guests, representatives of the schools of economists and also of commercial titles. If you allow me, before I make my speech, I would like to remind you, to express the condolences of this People's Parliamentary Group to a figure that is not an economist, but if you had a role in the formation of economists on this earth; I am referring to Professor Luis Suárez-Llanos, who was Dean of the Faculty of Economic and Business Sciences, and, among other things, also President of the ESC of Galicia. A reminder because it was the teacher of many of us who are here, and I wanted to take advantage of this intervention to remember it. Today we are debating precisely the draft law for the merger of your provincial schools, which is motivated by the need, but also by the opportunity, which arises after the start of the new titles in the economic and business areas within the framework of the European Higher Education Area. To establish the background, note that as early as 2003 the General Council of Colleges of Economists of Spain and the Superior Council of Official Colleges of Mercantists began the work leading to the unification of both entities. This work bore fruit in June 2011, when the Congress of Deputies agreed to admit the process and transfer to the Government a bill on the creation of a general council to unify them, which led to Law 30/2011. With regard to the merger of these schools, their need – but as I have already pointed out earlier – has as its starting point the transformation of the former diplomats and graduates of the economic and business areas into the new degree degrees, so the need to group together in this new corporation, the fruit of fusion, these titles. All accompanied by the fact that these schools work in the same market, are directed to similar audiences and their formation is also coincidental. So it is collected in the justification of Law 30/2011, which creates, by merger, the General Council of Economists of Spain, and which in its argument collects the different academic origin of the professionals who integrate these schools, who for years have developed their functions in the public sector, in the academic field, in the company or through the free exercise of the profession. In this context, each collective organization carried out its own training and improvement activities, its own records of advisers, auditors, financial advisers, accounting experts, forensics, which multiplied efforts and resources in the same field of activity. As far as we are concerned today, the law indicates that it will be the schools of the autonomous communities that will promote their unification with the corresponding autonomous community, in accordance with the applicable autonomous legislation. It's in this context where schools of economists and business holders approve in their assemblies their unification in each of the provinces. And it is up to the Autonomous Community of Galicia to compete in this matter, which is regulated in Law 11/2001. So, the mergers we are debating today have as their main objective to group the professionals who historically have developed a similar activity in the field of economics and business, and who, in addition, have recognised their respective titles as equal once they have exceeded the requirements of the new study plans. The unification of these schools is born with several trunk ideas: to achieve a more appropriate articulation of representation and defence of the interests of its members, helping to fight more effectively against unfair competition and professional intrusion; to gain a benefit for society – talking to consumers, talking to users – to whom they owe and to whom they provide their services, homogenizing supply and strengthening transparency in the recruitment of professionals; also to achieve greater efficiency and efficiency in achieving the objectives that they must meet as a public law corporation, not only by saving means and resources, or by reducing costs; and to lay the foundations for economic professionals to contribute, as far as possible, to the better functioning and development of the local and regional economy. But the work of the schools does not end in strictly regulatory, but rather they perform a wide range of activities aimed at connecting with the academic field; for example, the provision of courses and conferences in the faculties of economics, business or management and business management, on the professional outputs offered to students by a number of experts who pose those possibilities that students have for inclusion in the labour market. I'm talking about the creation of a job grant with colleges and companies to help those who are unemployed to improve their chances of finding a job, or the creation of a network of economists dedicated to teaching, both university and non-university, in which topics of importance are discussed for the profession, but from a more academic perspective. The tasks that school develops are therefore very varied and relevant to society, and the functions proposed in this law will help to develop them with greater efficiency and efficiency. In relation to the amendments originally tabled to the project – as has already been noted – this Galician People's Party Parliamentary Group accepted two of the three tabled by the Socialist Group, and negotiated the third, in order to seek greater parliamentary support for this law. Although the amendments contribute absolutely nothing to the initial text, what they do is to introduce redundancies with respect to other laws that apply to them. That's what we've been discussing. In relation – because this law is not really regulating schools, it only merges them. The regulation of official schools in the Italian eido is collected in the Law, mentioned above, 11/2001 – with the amendments of the BNG, as the spokesman has already commented, we had occasion to debate them, and I am grateful that they were not kept for this plenary, since there was no possibility of trading them or debating them. To conclude. The reasons justifying this unification are based on criteria of effectiveness and efficiency, the achievement of the objectives that must be met as a public law corporation, which are both in relation to the defence of the interests of the collectives, as well as of consumers and users, favoring, in addition, the interaction with public administrations, with the business sector and with society as a whole. This is an important step towards the future improvement of professional performance in the economic sphere, in each and every one of the different areas of action. In this way, professionals will see their capacity for professional representation and development strengthened. The collective resulting from the merger must think that it will overcome the 5,000 professionals of the economy in Galicia. This will also result in a better service for the development of the general economy, as it will increase transparency in hiring professional services provided by the colleges. Finally, with this process of merging these schools there is an adaptation to their own reality, giving an answer to what the future of the profession will be, in addition to constituting the germ of a stronger and more consolidated entity and with a single voice. Finally, thank you for your work in the presentation to the various groups of the opposition and also to the services of the House, and also for the opposition groups – I am referring to the Group of the Alternative Galician Left, BNG and the Socialist Party of Galicia – their support for this law. I would also like to thank the Joint Group for its abstention, because this law will ultimately be passed without a vote against. Because, as we've already pointed out, we think it's a useful law, which answers questions raised by different schools that work for our community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Cancel. Finish here this legislative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u156	Finish here this legislative text. We continue with the dictation drawn up by Commission 3a. Debates and votes of the Ditome drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u157	The debate maintains the amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The debate will be like what we just had: presentation of the committee's opinion by the chairman and a single round of parliamentary groups to set positions around eight minutes. The president of Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, Mr Sánchez Bugallo, begins by presenting the dictation. What's wrong? Let's see if they can warn you, please. If you're the vice president, it's worth the vice president. Do you have him there? Yeah, come on, read it. No, no, we're going to shorten. I read the vice president and it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. The bill was entered into Parliament's Register on 30 May 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 31 May, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of Parliament and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to be processed by the 3rd Commission, Economics, Farms and Budgets, and the parliamentary groups did not present amendments to the whole. The Parliamentary Group of Socialists has tabled thirty-seven amendments; the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, twenty-three; the Left Galician Alternative Parliamentary Group, eighteen; and the Joint Parliamentary Group, fifty-nine, which were qualified on 20 June 2016. Commission 3rd, Economy, Farm and Budgets, at its meeting on 23 June 2016, appointed the presentation. At the meeting on 28 June 2016 the presentation studied the articulated text of the project, together with the amendments tabled, and completed its report, which contains the recommendations made to it by the committee, consisting of the adoption of Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6 and 8 of the Joint Parliamentary Group; paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Left Galician Alternative Group; paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Galician Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group; paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 17 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; and a negotiated amendment drawn up with the number 19 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. The commission, meeting on 1 July 2016, adopted by the majority the report of the presentation. The text of the opinion put to the vote at this plenary meeting consists of an explanatory statement, followed by twenty-five articles, additional provision, transitional provision, a derogation provision, two finals and three annexes. We continue, then, if you like, the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u159	Well, thank you very much, Vice President, Mrs. García Pacín. The turn of the parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship, if so, defend the amendments maintained and stand on the amendments of the other groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u160	Thank you, President. The Joint Group, as seen in the committee's report, presented fifty-nine amendments to this bill, of which fourteen were related to the articulated and forty-five to the annexes. Of the fifty-nine amendments, five were accepted, all of which referred to the articulation, and the remaining fifty-four were rejected, including all amendments to the Annexes. So we keep Amendment No. 2 to Article 4, which aims to include in the evaluation an analysis of the execution of the plan and the degree of satisfaction, knowledge and utility that gives society. This amendment is in line with Article 5.1 of the bill itself, which sets as the central objective of the plan to respond to the demands of economic and social agents and more of citizenship. It is incomprehensible that the law aims to respond to the interests of citizenship but refuses to make an assessment of whether or not it responds to the interests of the citizen. We also maintain Amendment No 5 to Article 5.1 which adds, in addition to the statistical secret, the guarantee of gender perspective in the actions of the Greek Statistical System. Any statistic that fails to take account of the prospect of gender is misleading, as it masks the discrimination of gender pursued in our society. We also maintain Amendment 7 to Article 7.2, which simply sets out the objective of statistical research, improve methods and procedures, but does not provide what it must do to achieve the objective. That's why we include in this amendment that research must counteract the effectiveness of the questionnaires, procedures and methods used to update and improve them. It doesn't make sense to start a plan and then don't evaluate if the methods that are being used are... the procedures are really appropriate and they're giving the solution that was being sought, they're responding to the objectives that were being sought. Let us also maintain Amendment No 9 to Article 11 so that the report on the follow-up to the Plan is submitted to Parliament in the first quarter of the year following its execution. It seems logical that this report has a suitable time for its realization but it can't get too far from its interest. And what seems logical is that, at the end of each year, if you evaluate the Plan, if you look at all the annual targets, if there's any objective that you have to resume the next year because you're incomplete, etc. So if the annual evaluations of the Plan are denied, it's obviously denying the Plan's own effectiveness. We also advocate Amendment No. 10 to Article 12.1, which eliminates collaboration with private entities, because statistical work must be an action by the administration which, in our view, should not be in the hands of private initiatives to ensure genuine objectivity. In the same sense, we maintain Amendment 14 to Article 19.3. We maintain Amendment 11 to Article 12.2. The text of the bill does not indicate in which cases the Galego Institute of Statistics will carry out the statistical activities of sectoral departments which lack resources and in which cases do not. It only says these departments can use the IGE to do these statistical studies, but it does not say in which cases the IGE should respond positively and in which cases it does not; in which circumstances it does or in which circumstances it does not. I mean, there's no commitment to these studies being conducted by the IGE when the sectoral departments can't do it. I also maintain Amendment No 13 to Article 18.2 to promote cross-border statistical cooperation with the northern region of Portugal. I think there are many economic and social variables that could be the object of analysis and provide information and knowledge about the region. I believe that it is essential for the growth of that region and for the leadership of Galicia in that region to bring about, too, the assessments of how the economy is in the region itself, as are the social and economic conditions of the euro region to progress together in their improvement. We do not understand why the People's Party refuses to strengthen that vision of the Northern Galician Euro-region of Portugal. Let us also keep all the amendments tabled to the annexes which I would like to point out only some which I consider particularly important, such as Amendment No 19 to Section 4, which incorporates employment, staff and family reconciliation. This amendment, in particular, should be accepted, since it is essential to consider how conciliation is evolving to take the necessary steps to improve personal, family and work reconciliation as a key element in the recovery of birth rates. But in addition, we are also presenting, through Amendment No 23 to Section 5a, an amendment that goes from this section 5th of social conditions to section 4 which is work because when we start telling companies that conciliation is not just a social issue, but that it is a fundamentally business issue that companies have to be fully linked to this conciliation process, it cannot be that companies stand out and that this does not correspond to an objective that companies have to achieve, with their own obligations. It is a social function, it is essential for companies to understand the importance of conciliation because Galicia's demographic problem has a great deal to do with this lack of conciliation and we need all political, economic and social actors to be fighting for this objective. We also maintain amendments 20, 21, 22 to section 4 in relation to... section 4 is labour and equality in labour relations, labour conflict and collective bargaining. We understand that it is also necessary to move forward in the statistical studies of the world of work that has never been dealt with, that no government has ever had an interest in stopping studying how the world of work is, which are mobilisations, because the workers and the workers of Greece, which is what they claim, have never done any study of that kind. We also maintain Amendment No 24 that incorporates gender discrimination because we believe that it is important and essential statistical reports of the variables that tell us how the situation of gender discrimination is evolving and the goal of equality in our country. We maintain amendments 25, 28, 29 and 30 related to the Italian language, those related to the agricultural sector, those related to the innovative industry and energy production, expenditure and resources in education and social services. Something that has been denied, too, that is to do statistical studies with these health records, that we have them and, if we have them, why does the People's Party refuse to use them to do a statistical analysis of them? And also, Amendment No. 47 on the use of legal drugs in the face of the alarm that Sergas's own doctors give about the high consumption that is having Galician society throughout this crisis, as it has been increasing, not only illegal drugs but also legal drugs that have a major impact on health. Time's up, that's all. We will support all the amendments tabled by the opposition that have been rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, almost late, everyone. The term statistics shares etymology with the term state and has been defined by this as state science, statistics, because it's a fundamental thing -- we're talking about fundamental discipline -- for the development of government action. The United Nations General Assembly recognizes the fundamental importance of official statistics for the development of peoples. Public statistics are undoubtedly an essential tool for the evaluation of public policies, to establish indicators on the degree of social well-being or inequality of a country, to know the economic, demographic, cultural and all kinds of variables that govern the functioning of democratic societies. Finally, they are an essential tool for citizens to exercise their right to public information. This is the importance of public statistics which have been recognised and are collected in Article 27(6) of the Galician Statute and developed by laws of subsequent statistics in Galicia. Every government action depends to a large extent on the strict use of reliable data to enable them to know the socio-economic reality on which it is concerned. And unfortunately, in this same House, we often attend – especially in all control sessions – the way the Government made a constant and repeated contempt of official data offered by public bodies, mainly against the Galego Institute of Statistics and this verbal contempt in the House has a direct correlation in the contempt of the Galego Institute of Statistics itself. In 2009 the IGE had EUR 5,195,000; in 2016 the IGE budget is EUR 3,979,206. This means a reduction of 23.4% of the available budget of this public institute. And if we talk about the staff paintings, the IGE team has been reduced to 10 people, going from the 74 workers available in 2009 to the 64 currently available. For this reason, Alternative Gallega de Left presented a series of amendments directed, precisely, to recover the resources available to the Galego Institute of Statistics and, for that reason, we proposed adding to the objectives that are covered in the current Galego Plan of Statistics – which are three: informative, instrumental and quality – a new category, a fourth category of objectives which are the organisational objectives, referred to in our Amendments No. 1 to Article 1, No. 6 so that Article 6bis was created or wanted to be created, and even Amendment No. 18 to the explanatory statement. For what purpose? He said this at first: in order to create a series of organisational goals to ensure, firstly, a recovery of the available budgets for the IGE. Secondly, expand your staff. And thirdly, to update the training of workers and workers. That's all in a planning framework and necessary actions for the future. But this amendment, these amendments, all of them, were rejected at least in the committee debate. We also present an amendment aimed at ensuring the proper evaluation of the successive Greek statistical plans, so that this is produced, that evaluation, takes place in a commission-specific appearance before a new plan is presented. That should be the logic from our point of view of the debate. This is not the case this year and it won't happen next year either, since this Amendment No 2 to Article No 4 has been rejected. We tabled an amendment to ensure the character and public purpose of the IGE through an amendment to Article 9. Why? Because this article envisages the possibility of collaboration with private bodies by public statistical bodies. A possibility that, if it cannot be disposed of, from our point of view can never be a pretext for supplanting or outsourcing the functions that are proper to the Galego Institute of Statistics. All we wanted with this amendment was to safeguard the functions and the public character, of course, of the IGE, but it was also rejected, which opens a way of fear by our band about which are the claims of the Greek Government. And by entering into what are the amendments to the annex to the Galego Statistical Plan where the information targets are covered, that is, the specific statistical research chapters, we have made a set of proposals so that a statistical research on areas that we consider to be fundamental, especially in areas where we believe that statistical research should be deepened: First of all, about the diversion of public health patients to private centres, because we understand that this has a very high cost for public buildings and because it is a mechanism for privatizing a fundamental public service. We want to know exactly and we should follow up on the volume of the number of patients who have been diverted from public health to private centres. Also, about the evolution of a student enrolled in Catholic religion in public education centres in Galicia which costs 28 million euros annually and yet we do not have a record that this demand corresponds to the number of a student enrolled. It seems very important to us, too, to do a statistical study on the use of the Galician language in teaching, which is deeply affected by a normative change such as the application of the decree of plurilingualism and which must therefore be the object of examination and evaluation. Also about the use of Greek in the administration, we often debate in this House and debate and disagree on the level of use, use, not just knowledge of the language. Therefore, data and rigour for the debate would be beneficial for our language. Also about the number and evolution of mortgage executions in the first residence, because government officials claim, they recognize not to know that data, offering only general mortgage executions. So, not just about first houses, it seems to us to be essential. It's also about research into the evolution of R & D+i staff, because it seems to us that these are lines of action that are fundamental to the future of our country. About the average prices of milk in a context like the current acute crisis for our farm farms. In this same sense too, employment in the agricultural sector and many other information goals that we have presented and which have been rejected. In all, in fact, of the eighteen amendments that presented the Alternative Left Galicia only three were accepted; of the one hundred and thirty-seven amendments submitted by all opposition groups only fourteen were accepted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u164	And, in fact, we're talking about a bill to which the People's Party itself has not tabled any amendments. From our point of view, we believe that there is an opportunity to improve this plan, it can still do the majority group by supporting the amendments to the opposition. A number of amendments to the opposition we are going to vote in accordance with the committee's statement in a favourable way. And we have reserved our opinion with regard to the dictates, depending on how the majority voice is expressed. From a basic premise – and I'm finished, Madam President – is that we defend the right to strict and true public information, based on scientific criteria, available and accessible to all and that it is up-to-date and subject to the needs of Greek society. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr Jorquera Caselas has the floor for the BNG Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Counsellor, Members and Members. First of all, I would like to say that the BNG Parliamentary Group is pleased that we are currently discussing the Greek Statistical Plan. Because as much as this law has a marked technical character, Galicia has good statistical information. It's strategic because having good statistical information that contributes to the provision of knowledge tools of our country's reality is essential to operate on that reality and transform it into a positive sense. For Galicia, it is therefore strategic to have a public statistical institute. And why do I start with this reflection? Because I want to remember that in the draft law on rationalization of the autonomic public sector, it was envisaged in one of these incidents that the Government has so accustomed to us, made the IGE disappear as we understand it today. Their integration with CIXTEC was remarkable, when the IGE and CIXTEC functions are very different and therefore difficult to integrate. And besides that integration threatened the IGE's own independence, by turning it into a simple government tool; something that could distort its function and the quality and objectivity of its work. Fortunately, in the parliamentary process of that project the People's Group was reasonable and accepted the amendments to the opposition that prevented this nonsense. And today all groups agree to highlight the importance of the Galego Institute of Statistics. By focusing on the defence of amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG has tabled twenty-three amendments to this bill, three of which affect the articulate and the remaining twenty of the annexes. Amendment 2 to Article 7 was accepted in committee, which proposes to include among the instrumental objectives of the plan the consolidation and professionalisation of sectoral statistical bodies. Our Amendment 3 to Article 8 was also accepted, which proposes to include among the quality objectives the strengthening of the transparency of statistics. And since we're talking about transparency, let me put a stop to transferring a request from the IGE's own professionals. There is no direct access to statistical information on the Joint Website, although we are talking about a cross-cutting issue. Your search is a real obstacle race, you have to mark issues, then the economy, the company and the job, and finally the Greek economy to access the IGE portal. Therefore, since you are, Counsellor, attending this debate, please take note of this request and resolve this problem, and that there is direct access to the IGE portal on the Galician Joint website. Well, and continuing with the wording of our amendments, there has also been a transaction on the basis of our Amendment 19, which proposes to include among the subjects object of statistical study labour costs and business benefits. Twenty amendments therefore remain alive for debate and vote. Amendment No. 1 to Article 7 proposes the inclusion, among instrumental objectives, of the guarantee of access by researchers to statistical sources and statistical information. Among the functions of the IGE is fundamental to the compilation and dissemination of statistical documentation, developing databases of public interest and ensuring its dissemination. We therefore consider that ensuring access by researchers to sources and statistical information must therefore also be an instrumental objective. The rest of the amendments propose to expand the topics that must be studied by the IGE within the framework of Plan 2017-2021. And in this sense, I want to share the same reflection as we have done in committee. Many times in the debates in this chamber it seems as if the People's Group and the opposition groups lived in different worlds, even when providing data. That's why when we brought data we quoted the source. And it would be good if we used our sources as a source; we have a public institute of statistics, we use it. How many times have we discussed in this parliament about the educational situation? For it would be good – as proposed by our amendment 7 – to have the real knowledge of what is being the evolution of public and private spending in education, of the evolution of public spending for concerted centres and strictly public centres, or of the transfer of public education students to private and concerted education, and vice versa if it occurs. How many times have we discussed the employment situation? For it would be good – as proposed by our Amendment 8 – to study in depth the timeliness in the labour market in our country, the number of days worked by temporary contract, which are the indicators of wage inequality or what is the real rate of unemployment coverage in Galicia. How many times have we discussed in this parliament about the situation of the Greek language? For it would be good for the IGE to study in depth the evolution of the use of language, not only at the different levels of teaching, but also at the administration or at the company, as proposed by our Amendment No 10. Or if we were to talk about science and technology, it would be good if there was a thorough study of the evolution of expenditure in R & D+i, the personal investigator or the number of patents, as proposed by our amendment 23. As I said before, we have a public institute of statistics, we use it, we use our sources. This is why the amendments are based, what they propose is to expand statistical goals. As for the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups, I announce that BNG will vote in favour of all of them. Most propose, like the Galego Nationalist Block, expanding statistical study objects, expanding statistical goals. And as far as amendments to the articulation are concerned, we find it particularly relevant that they propose to strengthen accountability to Parliament. It also proposes to include the statistics departments of the Greek universities in the assignment of statistical information. And as far as external collaboration is concerned, which suggests that the collaboration of Galicia's statistical organization with private entities and organizations never assumes the supplantation of functions or outsourcing of tasks by the Galego Institute of Statistics. And finally, we fully agree that if we want to strengthen the Greek statistical system and expand the thematic area to be addressed in this plan, it is essential to return the budget and staff appropriations, which have been cut down over all these years, to the Galego Institute of Statistics. These are the reasons behind our amendments and the BNG's vote on the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. We therefore call for support for the amendments tabled by the BNG. And I announce that we will, in principle, abstain from voting on the final text, unless the People's Group makes a greater effort to incorporate the amendments tabled by the opposition groups. We are prepared, if that effort really exists and materializes in accepting some amendments that seem very reasonable to us, to reconsider this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u167	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Mr González Santín has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u168	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. The Statistical Plan is the set of instruments that define the objectives, strategies and actions for the production of the statistics required in the country, both to facilitate the monitoring and evaluation of public policies and to make decisions. Today the use of statistics lies beyond its origins as a service to the State or Government and is used by all kinds of people and organizations to obtain and make decisions. The objectives of planning are to ensure the production and dissemination of the statistics that the country requires, for decision-making of public policies and society in general, as well as to ensure coordination of different actors within the statistical activity. This statistical plan is made for a period of five years and must be approved by this Parliament. The document they bring us here today is a technical document to which we do not present a complete amendment, since we choose to make partial amendments with the intention of improving the text. When we incorporate some of these amendments that we have made by the Parliament, we understand that this text is improved in the presentation, since these amendments were essentially technical and were intended to control the activity of the statistical bodies by this parliament. But we believe that, in addition to these issues, it is essential to continue to deepen what citizenship really wants and should respond to this Statistical Plan. First of all, this plan should facilitate control of government action. And, therefore, in order to improve control of government action, it is necessary to incorporate into this plan the elements that enable us to assess how the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 is working and more to tell us what the situation and development and the results of all the plans and programs of the Union of Galicia are working. The strategic plan itself establishes that follow-up indicators exist. So since the Galician Union needs to know these indicators, the logic would be that all citizens have access to them through the IGE. This is one of the biggest shocks that we have found from the Socialist Group to this plan; a plan that should be perfectly coordinated with the IGE, so that it had all the indicators needed to be able to evaluate the results of the policies applied by the Government of Galicia. As we're talking about the Statistical Plan, we're talking about a good that we can consider a public good, which is information. So it has to be of quality, made strictly and correctly homogenized in order to be able to make comparisons over time. It is therefore a central strategic element that enables us to understand the evolution of the variables provided by the Autonomous Community as well as other organisms. Statistical information has to be rigorous, homogeneous and periodic in order to be able to take full control of the evolution of the economy, as well as of the different issues that relate to the well-being of citizens. Therefore, having proper information becomes a basic and fundamental piece, which we must value precisely the meaning it has for all citizens. The Galego Institute of Statistics, in this sense, should be a central element of statistical analysis and production, with a regulatory function and quality assurance. Given that society is changing, information needs are also changing. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about statistics, we're talking about certain data, data that should not be discussed, and that are unanimously accepted by everyone. And this is also important in Parliament, in the parliamentary debate, because in order for the debate to be possible, at least we must have a common space, a space where we all agree precisely, which are the facts and the data that appear in the statistics. We can disagree in their interpretation, we can disagree in their consideration, we can disagree in their opportunity, but what we should not disagree in the truth of the data as they come from statistical information. We can, by setting an example, discuss what is the cause of inequality in Galicia, but not about the fact of inequality. Something that happens very often in this chamber and especially in the questions posed to the president, where the data that facilitates the opposition and the Government never coincide. That serves, among other things, statistics, and as such we have to respect them all, when it benefits us and also when it harms us. What we are discussing today would be, if approved, the 5th European Statistical Plan, this one for the five-year 2017-2021. And the first one that is observed in this analysis of this plan is the continuity with regard to the previous Greek Statistical Plan. Continuity – you have to say – is a value that should be protected in statistics, so that homogeneity allows comparison of historical series. The Socialist Group also continues to amend in previous years, and we intend to improve this plan with thirty-seven amendments, six to the joint and thirty-one to the annexes. We share the objectives of this plan, which will be the annual programmes implemented for the statistical organisation of our Community. But even if we share our goals, it doesn't mean we're not vigilant in order for them to be met. But these programmes we are going to approve here today will have to be materialized by the IGE and the sectoral statistical bodies and by the Galego Statistical Council. And as for all the bodies of the Community, it is essential that they budget, an budget that has fallen in recent years, and that it is the guarantee that they can carry out their work properly. Today is not the time to amend the IGE budget, but yes to remember the need for a budget sufficient to carry out your work correctly. Yes, today is the time – and we have done so – to amend the articulate of this law. These amendments, for example, are intended to make an annual follow-up to this Statistical Plan by this Parliament, because as the text is drafted, it could be made only in the year 2021. This would deprive this parliament of a proper monitoring of what the IGE and the rest of the statistical bodies are doing. Interestingly, that amendment, number one, among others, was not accepted by the Phoenician Parliament, and we maintain it just like the rest of the amendments that were not accepted. And although we haven't made the amendment to article 20, Planning, we want to record that this planning is fundamental to the good development of statistical tasks. Therefore, the Galician Union would have to include in programs such as statistical operations or activities, whether or not there is a planned information target. With regard to attachments, we have included some goals that we think would be very interesting to be able to consult with citizens and even with the Government of Galician Union. The previously mentioned Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, which should include the indicators necessary to assess whether the targets set in the plan are met or, if not, be able to analyse which deviations are and can correct them at the appropriate time. It's also interesting to have data on the demographic reality and its territorial situation, as well as its evolution, or to know the quality of care in Galicia and the health resources that we count on, or the quality of education we have in Galicia, or, for example, the quality of our community's employment, which are some of the amendments that we present. All the above, we keep our amendments and also announce the vote in favour of amendments from the rest of the groups, since they all contribute to a greater quality of the statistical information that we count in our Community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u169	Thank you, Mr. Santín. Mr Arias Veira has the floor for the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Probably one of the most prestigious organizations in Galicia is the Galego Institute of Statistics. That is, this institute, both at this time and at the time of the Bipartite, is providing information in all professional sets. I, who, before being a member of this chamber, was an intensive user of all the statistical elements of this Greek institution, consider that one of the most advanced and complete elements of the Greek reality is the Galego Institute of Statistics. So, really, there are no great conflicts, but by the speeches of the opposition spokespersons it seems to me that they are giving an image that we really want to hide information, it is imprecise, there are doubts... allow me, therefore, gentlemen, to read the content of what we are going to approve. There are twenty-four articles, which initially explain how statistics should be done, which are almost common to all organizations, such as Europeans, nationals and Welsh, and then the specific contents that are made in Galicia, which I am going to read, because it even seems to be questioned that we do not want to give demographic information. Then, they are from territory: the entire territory of Galicia is explained; roads; hunting and fishing; natural resources and biodiversity; climatelogy; air quality; water reserves; water quality and purification; urban and industrial waste; environmental habits and practices. The static and dynamics of the population, that is, we immediately know births, deaths, vegetative growth, et cetera, et cetera, inhabitants, sex, age of the population pyramid; structure of households; dynamics of homes; demographic projections, that is, even if they do statistical operations of analytic study of prospection. Health care; waiting lists, lordships; general state of population health; morbidity; mortality from causes: heart, et cetera, et cetera, i.e., they are quite illustrative for people and with theoretical content and quite out of control; drug use and assistance to dependent people, who seemed here to ensure that there was no such thing. Education: pre-compulsory education; compulsory education; post-university teaching; access to university, supply and demand for qualifications; university education; transit of the educational system to the labour market; other types of training, such as that carried out within companies. Working: characterization of the labour market; occupational accidents and occupational diseases; wages—wages, we can know how wages work and, therefore, with the theory of calculating inequalities, et cetera, et cetera—; other working conditions; flexibility in the application of working conditions; labour cooperation; trade union elections, lordships; infringements and sanctions; employment regulation; foreign workers. Income and expenditure of households – in social conditions –; well-being; pensions and other benefits; use of time, including leisure; displacement by reason of work and other type of mobility; dependent population and social segments with more potential needs; disability; gender violence, ladies and gentlemen, we also saw some critics thinking that it was about concealing this topic; family and labour reconciliation; social capital and citizen participation; justice and security. Cultural equipment and resources; cultural habits and practices, that is, even elements of difficult quantification as these qualities; sports and leisure habits and practices; language practices, language practices! In housing: demand and access to housing; equipment and characteristics of housing. On issues of society: the static and dynamic of the population, etc., and so on. Let's go to other topics. Allow me other points. For example, the productive structure, the agricultural sector: livestock; machinery and other capital, i.e. tractors, etc., etc.; productions and yields; livestock sacrifice; ecological and quality production. In fisheries and aquaculture: fishing vessels, i.e. all the characteristics and nature of the fleet; aquaculture establishments; first sale of fishery products; characteristics of production units; occupation in the fisheries sector. Energy and industry: industrial subsector related to the primary sector, i.e. agro-industry; other manufacturing industries. There's "construction": residential and non-residential building. In market services: internal trade; transport of goods and passengers; tourist and host infrastructure; movement of passengers, occupation of regulated and unregulated establishments; financial services, services to businesses and other markets. On Public Administration: non-profit institutions; taxes, tax and non-tax income, the Portuguese Public Prosecutor's Office is here; resources and health expenses; R & D+i resources and expenditures. I mean, with this luggage, I'll stop for a moment and I'll go on. That is why all public statistical preparation for political debates is so fertile. Even if people agree, data itself doesn't decide policies or interpretations, which is one of the fundamental elements. That they be objective, that they will already give the theoretical and opinionary content to readers, statisticians and parliamentarians. Markets and prices: trade; prices in the primary sector, how are milk prices not present?; prices in the external sector; general level of prices, comparison, etc., which then compares with others. Business activity: structure and characterization of the business sector; business set-up; cooperatives, working societies... System of accounts, here we have the entire Galician macro-economics: the economic accounts; even the imput-output framework operations for those who want to deepen much more, which are costly, but very important; industrial sectors; satellite accounts. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't even have time to be able to read everything in this project, in all its contents. I just wanted to make a reflection: this is a kind of plan with participatory political control. And this is a Galego Council of Statistics where all political forces are represented, gentlemen. There is parliamentary control, where the director of the Galego Institute of Statistics can come here, questions, etc., and so on. There is parliamentary political control over the Presidency of the Union, especially the Government, the Economic Council – which is responsible in this case – about the activity, as this is being done. I mean, it's very competent, very serious, very approved, very prestigious and has all the political and parliamentary controls at our disposal. We admit fifteen amendments to the twenty-four articles. Finally, there was a certain posture to assume things, even two of them thematic areas of new contents, that they were already but that we wanted to adjust. So, from this perspective, we also consider that there is a philosophy of complementing INE, complementing European quotas, that is to say, attention to this, and also, on the other hand, an attempt to complement, but there is no need to monopolize the characteristics either, because sometimes specific statistical reports of the councils on specific areas, which are not specific to what is Galicia, which is what affects Galicia, the essential, but its own policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u171	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures for the updating of Galicia's public transport system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u172	Amendments to the Joint Group Nos 4 to 8, 11, 13 to 18, 20 to 22; by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, Amendments 1, 10 and 12; by the Nationalist Block Galego Amendments Nos 1 to 6; and by the Socialist Group Amendments Nos 1 to 11. The management of the debate, in this case, is the usual debate and vote on the opinions of the legislative texts: the presentation of the ten-minute dictum, the first round of the fifteen parliamentary groups and the second of five. The President of Commission 2nd therefore has the floor for the presentation of the dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures for the updating of the Galician public transport system, submitted by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, was registered on 23 May 2016, the date on which the Bureau of the House admitted the procedure for the emergency procedure. Following its consideration at the 7 June plenary session, the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by the 2nd Commission, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated, which ended on 21 June with the formulation of a total of fifty-two amendments: twenty-three of the Joint Group, twelve of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, six of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and eleven of the Socialist Group of Galicia. For his part, the Ponency designated at the Commission's meeting 2nd June 23rd and composed of the following headlines: Mr. Jesus Antonio Goldar, Mr. Raúl Fernández Fernández, Mr. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and Ms. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, finished the report on June 29th. Commission 2nd at its meeting on 4 July adopted the opinion with 8 votes in favour and 6 abstentions, with the incorporation into the text of the bill, in addition to technical amendments, of a total of ten amendments, one of them being negotiated. This articulated text consists of the explanatory statement, three articles and its final part, which consists of an additional provision, one derogation and two finals, as well as the annex relating to the contents of Galicia's Public Transport Plan. It is therefore necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to complete the process of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the amendments that have been maintained and the Commission's statement that I have just tabled. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u174	Thank you, Mr. Novoa. Rounds of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u175	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we bring to plenary the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd of the Proposal for a non-law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system. You remix to fix the cereal made by the Government of the People's Party for not doing well. And as for the structure of this law, this little law, the tiny law, is configured as a law with three articles, an additional provision, a derogation provision and two last dispositions. The Government of the Union has acted badly, has not done any prognosis and has been forced to work urgently. And we must underline and not forget the main reason for this law, which is the annulment of the Joint Resolution by which the Modernization of Grants Plan was approved. The Supreme Continuity-Administrative Room cancelled the plan last March. The judgment found an appeal brought by the National Competition Commission against the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which it considered to be law-adjusted. In its appeal the National Competition Commission argued that the plan involved the automatic extension of all concessions and that it was contrary to the specific regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which sets the duration of public service contracts, which should not exceed 10 years for bus services. The judgment assesses that the extension of concessions is unconditional and gives 10 more years to all existing concessions, irrespective of their initial period, of the period already elapsed and of any other circumstances which were in breach of European law. And all these extensions were in exchange for new environmental technology investments. The approval in 2010 of the express extension that annulled the Constitutional was always surrounded by controversy. And before the forthcoming entry into force of the European Regulation on the sector, the Council adopted the law on which the extension of the deadline of the Galego Committee on Transport and the Economic and Social Council continued without delay. Nor did it refer him to other councils, as it was mandatory for all draft laws, but especially in this case it affected the competences in education, such as school transport. And the Supreme Court didn't question the Spanish law of 2009, but the resolution that happened in 2010. And this would bring serious consequences to the road passenger and road passenger transport sector, and which left a critical situation of allegiance to most concessions in Galicia. And here the Government has been forced to correct the regulations and re-request the contracts, which have been illegally extended through the extension system. This famous extension restricted competition, because it involved the absolute closure of the market, with disproportionate deadlines, in a way of perpetuating traditional operators, not to say monopoly of a company that is a friend of the Government of Unity. To establish the social and qualitative criteria to maintain and increase quality standards for public service obligations with regard to minimum operating conditions, the rights of travellers and travellers, the needs of persons with reduced mobility, environmental protection and self-security, such as obligations arising from collective agreements and other rules of agreement on workplaces and social protection at the place of service. And to ensure transparency and comparable terms of competition between operators, such as warning the risk of certain competences such as dumping or the relevant activities which must impose specific quality standards. And we must not forget another topic that touches this law: Galicia's own characteristics, with regard to population and mobility. There is a very clear evolution of the population, in areas more marked than others, especially the imbalance that is found with regard to what is the Atlantic fringe area and the interior zone. We have a public service in many very poor, even non-existent areas. There is a clear increase in demand for recurrent or daily mobility in urban and metropolitan borders. There is a need to maintain a sustainable public transport system around rural areas, where it also presents itself as a social purpose as a guarantee of essential rights, such as the right to personal mobility and essential services. And let's not talk about the introduction of new technologies in the use of transport systems. And today the text that comes here, where we are going to position ourselves at the moment, depending on whether the Government of the People's Party takes into consideration the amendments, we think it is poor, there was or not that there was no improvement in the text that was presented; there is a lack of commitment to equip public transport by road with the characteristics that demand the citizenship of the 21st century. If fifty-two amendments were tabled from the opposition groups, and the Joint Group presented twenty-three amendments, being fourteen additions, seven replacements and two suppressions. It must also be said that the Joint Group had a larger number of accepted amendments, which were numbers 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 12, 19 and 23. But this really doesn't mean anything either, because many of those who have been admitted have been able to add features that must define the quality of public transport by road. Our amendments collected a greater commitment from the Government of Greece and specified more features, which have been rejected, such as those of most opposition groups that have made the raids. And within those accepted, we have introduced, for example, Amendment No 1, adding to Article 1, which we add "safety, quality and effectiveness conditions". The word "efficacy," which is so important especially when we talk about public services, has to be the tool that can use citizenship to live wherever it lives and whatever. Or number two, too. Also comment on other amendments that we have, such as number 12, on the gender correction of the text itself. Or that number 9, too, where we re-correct text about service providers. And also on Amendment No 19, adding to the annex, where, through the implementation of low demand management forms and the use of new technologies, the maximum expansion of public transport services in rural areas will be promoted, in which there is greater dispersion of the population, contributing to the maintenance of the population, where we add: "the needs for access and employment opportunities, training in relation to a more diverse and demanding population." Don't discriminate for the reasons we've explained before. Or Amendment No. 23, on accessibility. We must facilitate access in the means of transport itself and in the stops itself, which is unfortunately not the case today. And we're not talking about accessibility on buses anymore. Yes, there are problems both in urban buses and in other services, because there are many companies that, for example, have some low-floor bus, but you have to warn before you're going to travel to have it available, and often there isn't. And this seems to be happening in a country that says it's called the "first world." Or the case of other companies, as in this case happened in Ferrol, where you have to warn three or four days in advance so that these companies can disassemble previously seats in order to get the person up in a wheelchair, or where they demand, for example, buscars that have folding seats. Or, for example, in Chamber, where you go by bus to the Coruña station, if you want to go to the center itself, there is no bus adapted, even many times you have to go to another stop which is far further away from your home, especially on the subject of accessibility. Even lack of control and citizenship, even often you have to do wonders so that the bus can leave people, because the stops themselves are full of cars and the buses can't get close. And of the amendments which are rejected, which we have kept alive, we would like to underline, for example, Amendment No 4 to Article 2(2), which refers to the objectives of the Galician Public Transport Plan, to "facilitate mobility of people in terms of equality, security, quality, economic and financial sustainability and environmental, promoting and enhancing the priority use of public public transport, with a particular impact on rail and rail transport". So far there has been no bet on public transport of quality, element of territorial and social cohesion, such as the train or ship, its accessibility in the localities, taking into account our dispersed population model, with the possibility of offering a better price to users and users and large environmental advantages, and offering the redistribution of different means of transport. At this time of economic crisis, there was no concern about this service, nor did it take account of the increase in population ageing, where mobility should be facilitated within our territory. Nor was river transport, which was gradually disappearing at those few points where it was left, because there was no intermodality option, with consistent schedules to maintain this service. Or Amendment No 6 to paragraph 3 of the addendum to Article 2, where we say that the contents of the Galician Public Transport Plan should also be subject to information, where we include the Galician Economic and Social Council, which is the consultative body set up to facilitate the participation of socio-economic agents and representatives of organised civil society in the decision-making process. It is a permanent forum for dialogue and deliberation between the different economic and social agents and political powers. And the Economic and Social Committee itself issues the preliminary rulings on draft laws and draft legislative decrees that regulate socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development, always at the initiative or request of the Union, on the reality of this land. Or Amendment No 7, paragraph 3, to replace Article 2, where the Galician Public Transport Plan itself must be approved by the plenary session of the Galician Parliament and not only by the Government itself, and must also be submitted to the information in the report of the Galego Transport Council. Amendment No 8, paragraph 3, to replace Article 2, where we are talking here about the plan, which should be reduced to twelve months since the entry into force of this law the development of Galicia's Public Transport Plan. Or Amendment No 15 to the annex, which states that the requirements of conditions governing contracts, without prejudice to national and Community law, and including collective agreements between the social partners, where we include supplementary social protection schemes, are often not adequately met by the Public Social Security in matters of continence by retirement and similar situations, invalidity or premature death. Or Amendment No 17, to add to the annex, where we are talking about moving forward in gender equality goals in the field of work: "Species of conditions will set the objective criteria for the award of the tender, ensuring that at least 5% of the score assigned to the offers is aimed at assessing the ratio of female employment and its quality." There is an urgent need to implement measures for employment where there are only women, the promotion of equal opportunities between the sexes. Even in the organic law itself of the year 2007 it is established that contracts concluded must lay down special conditions in order to promote equality between men and women in the labour market. Or Amendment No 18, which is also added in the Annex, that "to ensure the purpose of improving the quality of employment, contracts shall include the express prohibition of hiring the main activity of the contract object with third parties." Amendment No. 20, where we're talking about the fact that " attention must even be paid within a maximum of two hours, as well as the connection and integration of this service into the general transport system, so that the mobility of the main centres of population is facilitated." This should be a benefit and reduce the use of the private vehicle, improve the quality of the service and reduce the environmental impact. Less traffic volume to the congestion situation and less energy consumption and less accidents, of course. I mean, having a good public service. And Amendment No 21, to add to the annex, where at the end "The connection and integration of these services into the general transport system will be guaranteed, so as to facilitate mobility with the main centres of population and comarcal relationships, as well as in those activities characterized by the high employment of the private vehicle, such as business parks, hospitals, universities, large companies..." We know there are services that do these lines and cover these places, but that's not a general norm, and if you should be imposed because it's not just going from population to population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u177	...you have to take very seriously the fact that it's the shift to work and another series of locations. And we're going to reserve our position for now in case there's any change on the part of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr Fajardo Recoso has the floor for the AGE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u179	Good morning, noon, late everyone, we're here and those we're not eating, those we're here and those we're not eating, either free or free. We're going to talk today about what the People's Party has to do with the name of law, but that, of course, we don't agree that it's a law. The People's Party, once again, hides under grandeur and names a reality that they obviate. And we are debating today what for the People's Party is a draft law on urgent measures for the updating of Galicia's public transport system, but that is not so; we are not before a law, the background is very clear, we are facing a transitional rule, which is the only thing that aims to solve a chapouza generated by the Government of the People's Party. A genuine chapuza that was simply made for – say – to guarantee contracts for what for us is an absolute monopoly of public transport by road in this country: a company that has more than 60% of the contracts of this public transport and has been the biggest beneficiary of this chapuza of the People's Party. We're in front of a disguised rectification of rule and that hides what should be a real act of the Government of Galician Union. A real government wouldn't be setting up an express rule here today to solve a chapuza, but a rule that says reality and pursues what is put in the title, which is the update of Galicia's public transport. We must recognize the current situation: there is no public transport in Galicia universal, accessible to all. No one in this country can travel among the most important cities in public transport with minimum guarantees of safety, efficiency and quality. But above all, we are faced with an isolated country in many of its terms as regards public transport, which means that most people are forced to leave their native cities to move to the Atlantic axis, which is the only one with a minimum of public transport guarantees. And we are therefore faced with the abandonment of transport as important to us as it can be for the nearby train, as it can be for maritime transport, or as it can be for any other transport model to solve the current situation, in which the reality is that there is no public transport, and in addition to what exists is absolutely unsustainable. The background on this element is absolutely clear, isn't it? Why is this rule made? Well, just because the People's Party broke the law, like so many times. There's a sentence that tells the U.S. Government that you can't continue to violate the law. And what the Government of the Union has done was to directly violate a European standard, specifically on 1370/2007, on 23 October, which determined that concessions cannot be made as they are currently being done or as they were done through this plan for modernising concessions. Once again, the rules and the money used in an absolutely strange way by the People's Party, for what was a plan to modernise concessions was simply a breach of European law. We're in front of the government that most of the time he's had judgments against him. We are before the Government that most of the time has demonstrated its ability to violate the law; that same Government that says that the laws are to be fulfilled or that the citizens are obliged to comply with the laws that merely make to make our quality of life worse. But precisely they are the only ones capable of continually violating the laws and the ones most judgments against them have at this moment. So, of course, we're not faced with a norm, but we're faced with an obligation that the People's Party had to solve their mistakes. But they also contradict themselves. Not long ago in this chamber a proposal was debated by another parliamentary group that said we had to make an express transitional rule that would dissolve the barbarity made by the Government of Feijóo, and the People's Party voted against it. And then they present this rule that expressly does that: an express transitional rule to solve a legal aberration that the People's Group itself had made. But they go further, they hide their incapacity in this rule through an annex called the future Plan of Public Transport of Galicia. Yes, the spokesperson of the People's Party here today will put that reduction of words that you so much like: the PTPG, famous according to it, but that the first time it was quoted was when he said it in the Commission, that, in fact, it's just the intention to appear an intention to modernize that is not so. And we're going to try to disassemble one by one of the issues that are raised in that PTPG, but that are actually not contemplated in the norm nor does the People's Party even intend to do so. The first thing that would have to be done by a PTPG, a real Galician public transport plan, which envisaged the transport set, would certainly be to take into account the social and economic effects associated with this plan, in addition to the interrelationships with the other sectors of the economy. It cannot be proposed a Galician public transport plan which does not take account of the economic situation involving public transport, the current situation and future situations, and which has therefore been taken into account how transport is interrelated in the State as a whole. Of course, it doesn't guarantee the country's mobility, it doesn't guarantee the mobility of any citizen who lives in this country, nor does it guarantee their universality. For us it is essential that a Public Transport Plan in Galicia be universal. And when we say it's universal, it's that anyone in the whole country can have access to a transport that guarantees the same quality of life as anyone else, regardless of their place of residence. This is not covered by this Galician public transport plan. This plan also does not adapt to the need to rationalise environmentally its impact, nor does it adapt to how a Galician public transport plan is influenced by the transport of fossil fuels to human health, nor does it take into account sustainability. It is essential for us to highlight the need to establish criteria that determine how this type of transport affects the quality of life of our people, of our families in the country as a whole; this is not envisaged. This is so much so that the amendments I tabled by the AGE have been obvious from the People's Party, some that are fundamental to us. One first is that amendment which raises the need for new concessions in its extensions to the introduction of electric vehicles, that is, they do not depend on fossil fuels. Electrical vehicles that allow to reduce the footprint that these types of fuels have on our environment. And that was an amendment rejected. We also believe it is absolutely necessary to increase forcefully and very important the full renewal of the fleet and the obligation to introduce criteria that ensure that fleets are renewed with more modern vehicles and therefore with less consumption. One of the issues that is fundamental to us and which is neither covered by this law nor in what is raised in the future is the co-responsibility between the lowest economic cost and the lowest social cost, not only for people but for the set of users. We need to transfer a standard that allows us to establish a transport model that is economical in terms of what public administration is, but also economic in terms of what each user must be. And, therefore, these tariff policies that include the need to establish elements that allow their universality from the economic point of view. The use of materials and energy is not intelligently optimized, nor are new technologies, of course, used in a way that optimizes these infrastructures and this transport model. With all we've explained, one of the biggest issues in this transport plan is that it doesn't see a determined struggle against climate change. It also has to do with the use of this type of transport and therefore the condition about the quality of the air that public transport has by road throughout the country and the state. One of our amendments – and one of the only ones that have been accepted – also has to do with the need to establish criteria and mechanisms that improve road safety, especially in this country, where in the last few days we see how worryingly serious and fatal accidents have increased on our road networks. And that, therefore, this plan must contemplate elements and criteria of road safety plans that optimize and reduce the numbers of fallacy, which also occur in public transport of travellers. One of the issues that we believe also to be important is the need for citizen participation in the plan's configuration. In that sense, we are proposing an amendment which, being scarce in the objectives, should at least be accepted by the People's Party. It is that this future plan is adopted and debated in Parliament and in the House of Wales, which is where the representation of the whole of citizenship is. Since we believe that participation should be improved and that it should not be the organs of the Government that approve them, but it must be Parliament itself, which will also change its configuration shortly, which determines what criteria, priorities and mechanisms are to enable this plan to move forward in order to give more capacity. And, of course, to create a transport plan that is better than the current situation, where there is no -- as we said at first -- any kind of universal and sustainable transport for the whole of citizenship. And this is so much so because the data are very obvious, 90% of the transport in this country is done through the roads, which is absolutely ineffective and, above all, absolutely unsustainable. And these issues must be considered. Finally, we also understood that social education should be considered as a factor in the use of public transport. And a Transport Plan must contemplate the education and capacity of the whole of this plan about the need for people to understand that public transport is the key element in improving accessibility and, above all, mobility in sustainable terms. And that's why we were asking this series of questions. Our amendments, which were a total of twelve – from which only one was accepted – had three fundamental axes: The first was to recognize that this rule was not a Galician public transport plan, but it was simply an express rule that does it is to eliminate a barbarity in legal terms committed by the Government of the People's Party. And several of our amendments would be geared towards that, not to constrain it as the Socialist Party thought the norm to a specific situation, but to clearly determine that we were not in the face of an impulse from the Government but to a reaction by an allegedity committed by this government. The second part of the amendment block has to do with energy improvement and plan safety. And one last part – which for us is the most fundamental – that was the introduction of direct management. It seems that the plan was obvious the possibility of direct management. Why do we consider it essential that this rule contemplate direct management? Because when we talk about universality we understand that there are elements of transport and mobility that, at best, without being economically sustainable, are absolutely necessary in social terms. So direct management is a guarantee that anyone in this country will have to cover their mobility needs, regardless of whether or not it's interesting for the private company. And, of course, that was one of the most powerful amendments to our proposal, which was not accepted either by the People's Party. So, in short: we can't talk about it as a law of public transport in Galicia, it's an express rule to solve the errors of the People's Party, which were not even recognized by the counsellor in this parliament, and it was, yes, placed upon it by the different opposition groups. We plan the need for Parliament itself to determine the annexes which cover the rule and, therefore, to be more involved and certainly better drafted, by the collective capacity of creation and not by a group which is now a majority, but we hope that it will not be in the next few days. And the last part that for us is absolutely key, which is the need – as we already said – to introduce criteria or possibilities for direct management 100 percent public of the lines that can be set in the future necessarily from a social point of view, to ensure that universal transport. The current situation is dramatic for the transport of this country, there is no real public transport, there is no capacity to connect the country set. And, of course, alternative transports have been forgotten, as can be – if we said it – the nearby train or how can be the transport of rivers, which has been abandoned by the Government and the leaders of the Galician Union, and which would mean for many of our laughs and many of our villages a fundamental element for their connectivity. So, hoping that some amendments will be accepted that we maintain, we leave to the second turn the issues that have been left aside from our approach. Announcing, yes, that we're going to accept the amendments from the rest of the groups because they go in line with what we stand for from this table and also during the Phoenicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u180	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The debate now beginning culminates in parliamentary procedure to try to amend a disguise. A disguise to add to the wind sector, to the boxes, to the dairy sector, and so on. A disguise to add to the many unwelcomes provoked by the Government of Beijóo. As we have stated in the debate of taking into account this bill, the Galician Council, despite warnings of illegality, was unable to resolve the problem of the extension of concessions during two legislats. And as we're also demonstrating then, we're very critical of the way in which we're going to try to find an emergency kitting that's being spoiled by the inefficiencies of the Galician Union. It seems to us that this law had to be introduced by the People's Group rather than by the Government itself. Because if the judicial annulment was against an act of the Government dictated in use of its administrative and executive powers, the logic would be that it was the Government itself who formulated the initiative. In addition, this way all pre-emptive procedures have been skipped that would have to have a bill. Because the logical reason is that this law was accompanied by the official reports of the bodies that manage the transport, the reports of the departments concerned, the advisory bodies or a legal report that endorses this transitional solution as correct. But in any case, as if it were to arbitrate an emergency solution, we can agree that the main thing now is to ensure a transitional regime, because the priority is that people who use collective road transport continue to have the service. For this reason, the BNG abstained from the discussion of taking into consideration, so as not to hinder the processing of this bill. And that's why we only present six amendments to it. We understood that what was meant was to search for, arbitrate an emergency solution. It wasn't therefore about getting into the debate on the contents of the future German Public Transport Plan, because we believe there will be time to do so. And in that sense we agree with the groups who suggest that the Greek Public Transport Plan should be debated and approved by Parliament in the next legislation. And for that reason, our amendments, rather than anticipating the contents that the future plan for public transport must have, because there will be time to debate it, what they do is define the framework that must have that plan. And if we're talking about public transport, the Plan should cover the whole of public transport, regardless of the mode of transport and the administration it holds. If not, there can hardly be an integral planning that comprehensively addresses our country's mobility needs. That's what our amendments want. That's why our amendment 2 proposes that the Galician Public Transport Plan fully address the mobility system through collective transport in Galicia, establishing general planning, which will be a reference to the development of different modes of transport. In line with this, our first amendment proposes that the development of the plan be accompanied by the participation of all competent administrations in transport in Galicia. Amendment 2 also provides for the need for the final document of the plan to have coordination and cooperation mechanisms in order to implement the objectives and mechanisms of the plan for each administration. And our other amendments also transfer these guidelines to the explanatory statement of this bill and the annex that is incorporated into this bill. Well, these are our amendments. The People's Group, in the debate in committee, has appealed for reasons of a competence to reject the amendments proposed by the Galician Nationalist Block, which I have just mentioned and which, as you can verify, are extremely reasonable. And he appealed for reasons of a competitive nature when he considered that they invaded the powers of the State and of the local administrations. Look, I'm really surprised that a group so idle in defending autonomous competences is so sensitive instead of avoiding any collision with the powers of the state. But, as we remind the spokesperson of the People's Group in the committee debate, does the Community of Madrid, where the People's Party governs, not respect the powers of the State? Because in Madrid there is a Regional Transport Consortium, a consortium in which planning, coordination of infrastructures and services and tariff policies are integrated; a consortium that integrates the various modes of transport, in the case of the Regional Consortium of Madrid: urban and urban buses, metro, tram and metro light and rail metro proximity; a consortium, ultimately, responsible for planning and coordinating infrastructures of which different administrations and services are held by entities dependent on different administrations. But, in addition, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party, the same is true of other autonomous communities and also of other large urban areas in the territory of the Spanish State. But it's more, without needing to leave this country, the Galician Union has signed agreements with various municipalities for the start-up of metropolitan transport by integrating the dependent services of the Galician Union with the dependent services of the municipalities. So our amendments defend something as elementary as there is an integral planning, regardless of the administration that holds. And the reasons given by the People's Group for rejecting our amendments are very much feared that they are excuses for being ill-paying. Sorry what they hide is the denial of any future railway as a mode of transport to solve the needs of internal vertebration in our country, beyond the railway Atlantic axis or of connections to Madrid. In the railway Atlantic axis and in the services that run by the same, there have been important investments which from our point of view cannot be ignored in a public transport plan. But it's more: beyond the railway Atlantic axis, beyond the existing services, as a country we can't give up on proximity services, nor can we admit that the rest of the regional services are more suited to the first half of the 20th century than to the 21st century. So, to fully contemplate public transport in Galicia, so that it is also contemplated by the railway, so that it is contemplated – as other opposition groups also propose – other modes of transport, such as river transport, is why we present these amendments, for which we request your support. And I'm going to put the arguments on the final position of the BNG to the final text of this law and on the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups for the second round, although I look forward to voting in favour of all the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u182	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u183	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Today, July 12, 2016, with the Ditome's vote on the Proposal for a Law on Urgent Measures for the Update of Galicia's Public Transport System, the Popular Group wants to overcome the paralysis of the People's Government in this issue and even give the folder to Mr. Feijóo's Illegal Government Resolution of February 26, 2010. Today, almost six and a half years later, during which the People's Government coexisted with an illegal resolution and installed in passivity and paralysis, the People's Group will fatten Mr. Feijóo's legislative statistics, as numerous as irrelevant in quality. If almost seven years ago the People's Government had decided unilaterally, disregarding the warnings of opposition and the National Competition Commission, to initiate a flight forward without legal limits, today, as it was more than six years ago, it is the People's Group that intervenes obliged by the events, forced, asphyxiated by the inefficience of two laws to amend that Government's resolution to which it supports. Again, he had to be an external agent – in this case, the Supreme Court – which had given the alarm voice about an unsustainable situation in the carriage of travellers by road from Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court's judgment is powerful and it is appropriate for us to bear it in mind. On 17 March 2016, the Supreme Court issued a judgment annulling the massive extension of road passenger transport concessions in Galicia. Judgment 585/2016, of the Supreme Court, does not give rise to interpretations, is clear and powerful. It is fundamental that Mr Feijóo's Government has violated European Regulation 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 on public rail and road passenger transport services, through the Resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility, of the Council of the Environment of Galicia of 26 February 2010, in which concessions for road passenger transport in Galicia are duly extended for ten years. The consequences of the Supreme Court judgment are immediate and clarifying: the extensions of 145 concessions, of 100 per cent of the concessions, which are set in the de facto allegation to 131 concessions, whose concessional period has ended and are already in the extension period. 90% of all concessions, 131 of 145, are in a position to extend their concessions and therefore in the case of an allegation. This serious situation gives rise to deep concern and uncertainty in the transport of road passengers, in the users of urban transport, in the workers of the concessionary companies and in the companies themselves, and it is a frontal impact on the silence and passivity of Mrs. Infrastructure and Vivenda, also responsible for the transport area. With his lack of reaction it seems to be unknown that this area is also of his competence. Over the course of the days and weeks, of loud eloquent silences by the Counselor, we are sure that he was not aware of an announced sentence, nor was he aware of the consequences of that judgment. More than six years with Damocles' sword on transport, and the impassable popular government. There was no immediate reaction, there was no progress in the work in six years, there was no plan B, even if it had been by chance. The unconsciousness of the latent situation for more than six years between the resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility and the judgement of the Supreme Court, by that direction, of the Council and of the People's Party's Government, is only understandable from the position of disinterest in the transport of travellers by road from Galicia. Because that passivity doesn't even support the journey compared to other territories. Other communities have been conscious and active: the Basque Country, Extremadura, Cantabria, Catalonia, all of them during this period, in one or another year, but before, they have already taken action. And Galicia? Galicia very simple and enlightening: 2010, illegal resolution; from 2010 to 2016, passivity and inactivity; 2016, Supreme judgement declaring the only decision taken in public transport illegal in the last seven years. The truth is, it's a record, I'd tell the Counsellor directly if I were, who should be present in this chamber. As a record it is – I tell the Counsellor – that the Government would not appear in this chamber on its own will, on my own request. It only came to this chamber thanks to the initiatives of the parliamentary groups. Was it not relevant, therefore, this problem?, was it not interested?, did it not affect the Greeks and the Greeks?, did it not have anything to say to those who if we considered it to be a matter relevant and worrying to Galicia? Mr. Spokesman of the People's Group, it is true that the maximum responsible for transport has appeared in this chamber, but not the request itself. The ruling was met on 17 March 2016, and the Counsellor came to the plenary session on 30 March to answer questions from the Nationalist Block of Wales, the Alternative Left Galician and even the Popular Group. And he also appeared at the April 13th and 14th session before an inquiry by the Socialist Group. None of these times came voluntarily to this chamber. Two appearances, therefore, forced to solemnize the obvious, the defensive and without giving anything at all. They had to spend almost six months since the Supreme's judgment – it proves irrefutable that in the previous six years nothing has been done – so that the Popular Parliamentary Group, not the People's Government, had brought to the House the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system, for urgent procedure. Emergency procedure that should be used only for unpredictable and unwarranted situations. In this case, especially in this case, and compared with other autonomous communities, the judgment was very predictable, and whoever refused to consider it as such was the Government of the People's Party. And this decision for the emergency procedure carries with it limitations that mark the journey and the final outcome of this bill. Limitations caused by years of popular government inactivity, which transport as a whole does not deserve and with personalised harm to transport actors. And transport actors are the administration itself, it's the concessionary companies and it's basically the users. We are therefore debating a proposal for a law that is the victim of the times, of urgency, of the victim of a processing that is restricted by the calendar. An implacable calendar that makes it difficult to analyze, reflect, contrast, which prevents the debate from being serene, paused, contrasted, as it is deserved and needs the public transport of Galicia. The Socialist Group believes that this process chosen by the People's Group, with the above-mentioned shortcomings, has negative consequences or, at least, undesirable effects on the development of the legislation that is adopted. In fact, the text will not consider most of the amendments tabled by opposition groups, so once again it will be a text with sound shortcomings, the image of the People's Party; a text more pending from the legal compliance of processing and approval than from its actual content and usefulness; a text more identified with the 20th century than with the 21st century. However, the Socialist Group has made the necessary effort, and we are told that the other opposition groups too, to improve the proposal presented through the corresponding amendments. We have done so with the conviction that the text is manifestly improved and also since predisposition to be receptors to the arrivals of other political groups. So, from the perspective of transitory and provisionality of this rule, we present eleven amendments: one of suppression, five of additions and five of modification, which I begin to defend very briefly. With Amendment No. 1, we want to leave open the possibility of choosing the mode of defining the restricted plan in the text for "general use" transport, since with this deletion you can cover the zone concessions, both those of general use and those of special use. The People's Group has offered us a transaction on amendment and we accept that transaction. Amendments 2, 4 and 5 to Article 3 are marked by the current situation of provisionality and transitory living in transport. We must be aware that the situation has changed as a result of the Supreme's sentence. Amendment No 2 aims to reflect a recognition and assessment of the improvements already made, aims to adapt to the current reality in order to avoid future risks. Amendment No. 4 looks for a quiet transit. In an adulterous situation, it aims to optimize resources and get a real benefit for all the transport actors, try to combine the need with the operation. Amendment No 5 aims to bring the accessibility regulation into line with the necessary adaptation to the current reality, both concessional and infrastructures that allow it to be accessible. These amendments in Article 3 – as I have already said – are a direct consequence of the resolution that led to the Supreme's judgment. Through them we reduce uncertainties and risks in the transport of passengers. Amendment No 3 aims to recognize and reflect the relevant role of the Administration in the exercise of acts that guarantee the provision of services by the public interest. Amendment No. 6, in addition, has a singular and operational purpose. It's about enabling vehicles of nine squares, including the driver, in areas of weak traffic in regular public transport services. We don't perceive any legal collision with the discretionary service of the taxi, we only see benefits. Amendments 7 and 11 seek to reflect in the derogatory provision and in the explanatory statement the Resolution of 26 February 2010 of the Directorate-General for Mobility, of the Council for the Environment of Galicia, which is based on the Supreme Court's ruling to annul the extension of concessions to transport. Finally, Amendments 8, 9 and 10 are set out in the Annex to the proposal. Number 8 aims to complement and expand the minimum contents of the Transport Plan. Number 9 wants to value the positive data that the use of public transport exerts on environmental pollution and the need for the creation of gradual mechanisms to compensate for the so-called "internalization of environmental costs". And Amendment No 10 reflects the need for the Galician Public Transport Plan to contain the corresponding economic and financial memory. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. I would also like to greet the Secretary-General of the Council, who is accompanying us in this debate in place of the Counsellor, who coincides with this debate with an institutional meeting of its own activity. The debate we are debating today in this plenary of the Galician Parliament is due to the approval of Ditame, issued by the Commission on the 4th of July, on the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures for the updating of the public transport system in Galicia and assumes – as it has already been said – the last stage of the parliamentary journey of this rule, which was instituted – as you know – by the parliamentary group which I have the honour to represent at this time. Allow me, Mr. Fernández, an incisus, because it seems that you have not been sufficiently clear what we intended to explain to you in the past commission. Days after the judgement of March 14 came to light, the Counsellor was right here in this gallery and from her seat answering questions from all opposition groups, including the majority, except curiously that of you, who have always been to the other people's car in the record of initiatives. And look, Mr. Fernández, and I said with all due respect: if between the years 2005 and 2009 the two-party Government of Galicia – which you belonged to and supported – had done its work, probably this debate today would not have to come here; probably, if things were done right, this sector wouldn't have the problem you have today. I would like, firstly, to thank publicly for the work done and brought near by the various parliamentary groups of the opposition, and in particular for their rapporteurs, for the successive stages of the processing of this bill, for their approach and also, of course, for not voting against the adoption of the dictatorship in the last committee. This spokesperson and the group that represents will deal with this initial abstention by all means in a vote in favour of the end of this debate. We are convinced that doing so will be contributing with us to the resolution of a serious problem that puts the stability of thousands of families in a sector very important to the Galician economy, which – as we have already said on one occasion since this forum – all of us here have an obligation to protect. As you know, during the course of the work of the so-called Popular Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group has provided a concrete response to each of the amendments tabled by its groups, both those which were accepted and/or traded and those which were finally rejected. And to them, the most significant ones, I'll come back in my second round of intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not in the interest of this Member to reproduce the debate that has already taken into account this bill and the subsequent drafting of the ruling in committee. They will allow me, however, to reiterate the way in which we had the opportunity to manifest at that plenary session of June 7. So things, we've said that the main background that led us to this moment is the following: On 14 March 2016 it was when the Supreme Court had ruled out Judgment 1067/2006, which, estimating the litigation-administrative appeal formulated by the then National Competition Commission, annulled the Resolution of the General Directorate for Mobility of 26 February 2010. This administrative resolution approved the Plan for Modernising the Grants of Regular Public Transport. And the verdict led to the fact that only 14 of the 145 long-distance transport contracts in 2009 would remain in effect, expiring as soon as 131 contracts were concluded. This is, ladies and gentlemen, one of the terms of this debate. This surviving situation required the impulse of urgent action to ensure the provision of the public transport service in Galicia with maximum guarantees and maximum legal certainty, and so today we are debating this impulse in the form of a bill. And it is no less to our trial to underline again, ladies and gentlemen, that despite being twelve autonomous communities that have taken measures equivalent to those contained in our Law 5/2009 of 26 November, and were such as Catalonia, Aragón, A Rioxa, Castela-A Mancha, Canarias, Castela e León, Asturias, Valencia, Madrid, Murcia, Estremadura, Balearics and Galicia, the National Competition Commission – so called then – has only filed an appeal against the initiatives of the Valencian Community and Galicia. But after the Government's rejection of that appeal and subsequent validation by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, it was the Supreme Court who in the judgment we mentioned earlier annulled the General Directorate's resolution and as a result the plan for modernising concessions. It should also be reiterated, at this point, that the Council of Galicia has brought an incident of nullity in considering that the Supreme Court has assessed the constitutionality of an autonomous provision of legal rank, Law 5/2009, which is expressly excluded from its jurisdiction. And that is because it was understood that in the case of reasonable doubt about the conformity of this legal provision with the regulatory framework in which it must be inserted, the Supreme Court itself should have raised a question of constitutionality or an earlier question before the European Union's Court of Justice, and if it did not, it could have broken the legislative autonomy of the House and the Autonomous Community itself. In any event, and irrespective of the legal status that may arise from the challenge of this judgment, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that the measures provided for in this bill will bring legal security, first, to the users of the public transport services of the competence of the Autonomous Community; secondly, to the undertakings which must provide the public service and its workers; and thirdly, to the Greek administration itself, which must ensure the most appropriate provision of the public service by the contracting companies in the framework of these contracts which may be overrun. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to reiterate what we will be forwarding during the consideration debate, and this rule establishes mechanisms that will promote a fundamental modernisation of public service and its full adaptation to the demands of society in the short and medium term. In this way, the figure in Article 2 of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia, PTPG – as I see, in fact, that my colleague, Mr Fajardo, liked it very much, and that I have already told the Commission that this parliamentary group was willing to ceder it for free for its new confluences which will now be towards the autonomous elections, and we do so in a free way, of course – as a planning instrument necessary to establish a multimodal and integrated public transport system, and which we have already explained in the first debate and also during the drafting of the dictation. Its minimum content is regulated in the annex to the legal text, as we have already had the opportunity to explain last June 7, if it is due to its importance that I must once again refer to that content in a summary way. The Galician Public Transport Plan will therefore contain, among other provisions, the programming of the bidding of general-purpose public transport services contracts with the title of the Galician Board; the requirements of conditions governing contracts, laying down rules to facilitate the succession and stability of the staff of the outgoing contractor, as well as of the material that it had, including the operating aid system; in addition, tenders will assess the quality criteria that are set at least 65% of the score of the competition. The plan will analyse the management of the territory in terms of mobility by setting the conditions under which different types of transport services would, if appropriate, be integrated; it will set the service management models at user demand and the integration of these services into the global transport network, so that mobility can be facilitated from any population in the territory to the main population centres; of course, the basic requirements that must meet the public transport supply in areas such as accessibility, territorial connectivity, security, modal and interconnections in the main connection nodes. Or, for example, the plan should complement the basic rights and obligations conditions of users and ensure accessibility for the population as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, along with the regulation of the framework for the planning of the new service map, the bill dedicates its Article 3 to laying down rules for the guarantee of service in the transitional period, and even to maintaining elements of modernization of those who would have set up the plan that would have annulled the Supreme Court judgment. Let me also point out again that this Article 3 repeals Article 1 of Law 5/2009, which established the extension for ten years of the services and, immediately thereafter, the precept establishes the principle of continuity of the public service, and that continuity will in any event be voluntary to contractors, who will have to report their resignation within 15 days of the entry into force of the law. As we have also said, its contractual obligation is established for 12 months from the date of this waiver, thus following the regulation of the Land Transport Management Act for contracts that are being won. Finally, it is worth noting the legal forecast that, in the face of hypothetical waivers of contractors, the Administration will proceed to direct adjudication in accordance with Regulation 1370/2007, as we also had the opportunity to explain during the parliamentary processing of this rule. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an obligation to point out that this legislative text aims to maintain the lines of modernization driven by Law 5/2009, which have their realization in the continuity of their participation or integration into metropolitan transport plans in the model of zonal tariffs, in the implementation of the operating aid system, in line with the work carried out by the Government of Galicia in recent years, or in the maintenance of the commitment to progressively integrate vehicles accessible to people with reduced mobility into contracts. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for the rules for the invitation to tender for services of temporarily limited duration, such as those on the beaches provided in the summer, by establishing a simple procedure for contracting them. So far, the extract of all the measures contained in this text which aim to ensure, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of the public transport service to all users with all guarantees and maximum legal certainty for all operators. And that's, above all, the final end of this bill. In the second round I will explain our position on the amendments that remain alive in this debate, but allow me to move forward now the summary of those presented. We have registered this bill put forward by our parliamentary group – as has already been said here by some fellow – fifty-two amendments: twenty-three from the Joint Group – fourteen additions, seven replacements and two suppressions – twelve from the Left-Galga Alternative Group – four additions and eight replacements – six amendments from the BNG Group – three additions and three replacements – and eleven amendments from the Socialist Group – five additions, one suppression and five modification –. Of the amended advances, numbers 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 12, 19 and 23 of the Joint Group – which I assumed was 34.78% – were accepted in the course of the presentation; number 11 of the AGE Group – which I assumed was 8.33% – and a transaction was reached with Amendment No 1 of the Socialist Group. And of course, the technical amendments and recommendations made by the legal services of this House were also taken into account. I will then add to the arguments put forward by the different groups which justified the acceptance or rejection of their respective proposals. And nothing else for now, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u186	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Round of parliamentary groups to define the amendments of the other groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u187	Thank you, President. Well, from the Joint Group we're going to support the amendments tabled that keep the opposition groups alive. We understand that it would be a much more complete approach to this minilei to the contributions made by the different groups, because it is not enough to be innovative. There was no interest in adding and improving this quick and mandatory modification, which is a very urgent solution of minimal importance. And it is curious, because we are not allowed, for example, to amend Amendment No 1 of the AGE, where it was indicated that the object of the law itself to adapt to European legislation, because this was what resulted from our adoption today of this Law of urgent measures, which should also guarantee the renewal of the fleet itself; or Amendment No 2 to Article 2, on the updating of the public road transport system of Galicia, which would be carried out through Parliament's approval, as we also agree with them: it is the very representation of the Greek society represented in the House to which it must give a good view; or Amendment Amendment No 3 of Article 2 of the Public Transport Plan of Galicia, which are targets of the plan – which must be much wider – where a more detailed approach is made than the objectives of the plan itself which is not covered by the proposal made by the People's Party. The Greek Government has the responsibility and obligation to offer urgent measures with this law in order to address the current deficiencies. I also recommend following other models, especially at European level: accessible mobility, alternative transport – such as electricity –, greater security, models of cooperation between the different administrations involved and ensuring proper planning. And it is very sad that many times you worry more about getting to what the capital of the state is than from one point to another within our territory; regrettable. Or Amendment No. 10 also, on direct management of the board in the service itself, when direct management is inadequate, or for at least guaranteeing the minimum objectives set by this law with the policy that follows the board almost to free itself of responsibilities. Or also the guarantee of the subrogation of workers is being reflected in the prayers, where they are included within the socio-economic and social-security criteria, maintaining the quality of employment and being stable. As with Amendment No 1 of the BNG, which states that the Galician Transport Plan should be drawn up, define the framework of the plan itself, to address in an integral and coordinated way the different modes of public transport, with the support of the board and in collaboration with other authorities that are competent in transport. It shall be subject to public information and to the preliminary reports of the advisory bodies. Or number 3 also of the parliamentary group itself, where it is indicated that transport networks will be implemented by establishing the general planning of the entire collective transport network, which will serve as the basic guideline for managing the transport of all administrations by Galicia's competences. Or Amendment No 4 to the replacement annex: the consideration of the intermodality of different modes of transport and the coverage of the territory from the combination of their use, on rules relating to the rights of passengers of social protection. Or number 6 where the plan will have to address comprehensively the general planning of public transport in Galicia by establishing mechanisms for the participation and coordination of other administrations, especially the State. And where rail transport should also be included, favoring intermodal transport as a rational sort of transport on our land. Or that number 5 of PSOE in paragraph 4(c) on reduced mobility, the basic conditions of accessibility in the period of continuity on the holding, setting a deadline, especially those that are first incorporated. Or Amendment No 9 on measures for positive discrimination in public transport and gradual mechanisms for the internationalisation of environmental costs. Or that Amendment No 10 on the minimum content of the Transport Plan itself, which will consist of an economic-financial memory that guarantees the universality of mobility, its sustainability and the positive discrimination of its use; the need to even use buses of few squares to facilitate mobility in populations with very few inhabitants. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u189	Well, first of all, tell the spokesperson for the People's Party that we are not going to accept his approach to our name confluences that he offers us because we doubt a lot, in addition, that he is free. The People's Party almost all the money in B or black, for free, can't do almost anything. For example, his headquarters paid him in black and ruled from a black-paid headquarters. But, well, these are things from the People's Party 2.0; therefore, perhaps you have to visualize your environment well when you talk about it for free because in the People's Party nothing is given, everything is charged with envelopes. With regard to the current approaches, our group will support the set of amendments from the other opposition groups because they are consistent with the spirit that defends our amendments. But, of course, we want to make some clarification to the People's Party. First of all, to say that this is done to avoid jeopardizing the future and the economy of thousands of families that depend on this sector, well, the first thing to tell you is that the only thing that put this family at risk was the People's Party itself failing to comply with European legislation and therefore the People's Party that has these families in a situation that is seriously at risk of their ineffective government. That government which is so effective turns out to be in breach of European law. And I don't appreciate the excuse that we've only been claimed by two communities in the whole of those who have done something like it, because that's an excuse for poor payers who are not acceptable to a government that is serious but that is absolutely allegible in a multitude of issues. Of course, one of the issues that could facilitate the future and the tranquillity of this set of families would be that you would accept our amendment to the subrogation of workers. Why is it not already shielded in this law that, from now on, when a replacement is produced in a public road passenger transport contract, it is guaranteed the subrogation of workers so that the workers who so far did that work have guaranteed continuity in their job or, at the expense of them, compensation for the new company that does not want to continue with them? We therefore find it absolutely very important that these kinds of issues should be guaranteed in the norm. Because then, otherwise, we found ourselves with how during this session we had to come here on numerous occasions defending workers who were expelled from their jobs when a new contract came to that service and what it always did was, with its price reductions, always go to the workers' pockets for dismissal or reduction of wages. So I think it is necessary to subrogate workers in all conditions, in their jobs and in their previous working conditions to ensure that safety of families that you care so much about. Just like they were worried about the workers and they came to say they were the workers' party or, as they said just a month ago, they were going to be presenting to lower taxes and today they already announce that they are going to increase taxes to meet Brussels. You're the party to fraud. That same party that says we have to repeat the referendum in Britain because Brexit's proposals have been made in a lying way, it turns out they don't understand that you can't go to an electoral dispute by lying and deceiving, as proved only a day later. Of course, it seems very important to us that you accept our fleet modernization amendments and, above all, the suppression and introduction of electric vehicles into the norm, in the sense that the footprint is eliminated – you are disturbed by what I say, don't worry, you can answer whenever you want – fossil of that current model, which we believe new mechanisms must be introduced to ensure its environmental sustainability and that is why we introduce these amendments. And, of course, we hope you will answer us about the need for you, for you to put in an annex the need to make this new Public Transport Plan in Galicia, that it is the next full of this House who determines what the conditions of the plan are, what the conditions are, and of course, what the guidelines of the plan are; that there is no plan already planned when we are at the end of a legislation, and therefore it will be the new public officials who should make that decision. And not only the Government but the whole of the House, because we are betting on citizen participation and we understand that it must be this House that determines this plan, which is fundamental to Galicia's future in a situation like the current one where there is no guarantee of vertebration. And, of course, it's impossible to vertebrate the country through the current model of public transport that the People's Party has developed all these years, which has done to eliminate the public transport of most of the country and only restrict it to the Atlantic axis and under very favourable conditions for most of the population. We are faced with public transport in many elite cases as to its cost and unaffordable for many workers, as happens in the current Atlantic axis where – as you know – the current price of tickets makes many people unable to use it and have to use another means of transport. We therefore hope that you will be pronounced on our amendments which remain alive and, depending on how you act, because we will determine our vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u190	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u191	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. If I didn't understand correctly, Mr. Goldar began his intervention by blaming the two-party government for the problem of extension in concessions. I sincerely believe that it is totally and absolutely unprecedented that a light party ruling seven years in Galicia – I mean the current period presided over by the Government Feijóo, because if we talk about the history of our country, it is that you have always ruled by taking away a brief interim, Mr. Goldar – continue to vote on the guilt of all the previous government; it seems to me totally and absolutely unheard of. But, look, the reality is, since you've had access to the government they've had months to solve the problem of extensions and they haven't done anything at all. They came last hour with a law and with a resolution and, despite warnings of illegality, they spent seven years without doing anything to solve this situation. Do you want me to read to you again, as we did in the debate of the consideration of the warning of illegality that the BNG exposed from the rostrum about that law? And remember, Mr. Goldar, that the Supreme Court ruling annulling a decision by the Government of Galician Union was handed down against a resolution by the Government of Mr. Feijóo. So one day they stop throwing balloons and assume their responsibilities. Having said this and speaking about the amendments tabled by the rest of the opposition groups, as we announced on the first turn, we are going to vote in favour of all of them, and I am just going to focus this second intervention on mentioning those that seem most relevant to us. As we said in the first speech, we agree that the Greek Public Transport Plan should be discussed and approved by the Galician Parliament; that the basic principles that should guide the future plan should include aspects such as accessibility, security and environmental sustainability. In this respect, we believe that it is essential to mark itself as a goal to reduce fleet seniority and also CO2 emissions by promoting electrical means of transport. It seems very reasonable to us and we have fully subscribed to all these amendments. We also agree that the possibility of direct public management of services should be considered, as proposed by the AGE Parliamentary Group in its Amendment No 10, and that criteria for the protection of employees' rights and the promotion of quality employment should be included in the requirement for concessional conditions. In that sense, we fully agree that the new concessionaires of the staff who had been serving should be granted subrogation. We also find it very relevant to Amendment No. 18 tabled by the Joint Group, which includes the express prohibition of contracting with third parties the main object of recruitment; and also Amendment No. 21 of the Joint Group that it proposes, in response to Galicia's mobility needs today, to contemplate connections to business parks, hospitals, universities and large companies. We still do not know, after Mr Goldar's intervention, whether the People's Party intends to change the view it has in committee regarding the amendments tabled by the opposition groups and, in particular, by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, or not. If you persist in your position to vote against the amendments tabled by the BNG Parliamentary Group, I would like to confirm that our position will be the same as we have had in committee and therefore abstain from voting on the final ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u192	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u193	Good afternoon again. Mr. Jorquera, yes, it seems that the Bipartite is guilty of everything, but I'm going to tell Mr. Goldar, because, apart from putting the blame on the record, you have to have a little rigour in your accounts. Look, tell you that we wouldn't be in that situation if the two-party government had solved the issue. You see, the European Regulation is October 2007, the elections are convened by the Bipartite on February 1, 2009. Fifteen months have passed, and the bill you submit for approval says the transport plan gives you twenty-one months to do it. I mean, they rule a lot more and they want the rest of us to solve in much less time. So a little bit of rigour. Give us fourteen months, according to that, to have drawn up the transport plan. Second, man, do I have any initiatives? You see, the ruling is known to you on 17 March 2016, Thursday; it comes out in press on 18 March 2016, Friday; on 21 March 2016, Monday, the Socialist Group registers – well registered – the request for the presence of the commissioner in commission and full, an oral question in committee, a full oral question, an inquiry and a question for a written answer. Man, we could have come on Sunday, it's true, but I don't think we found anything. In any case, Mr Goldar, in the amendment debate, in Commission 2a, for the drafting of the dictatorship we are debating today, you have placed the Socialist Group alongside the transport entrepreneurs. You said we were an accomplice to the businessmen. Today he hasn't said it yet, but I feel like he's going to do it in his replica turn, look where. In any case, and in any case as a response to his intervention in Commission 2nd, he will allow me to recall some complicities of his group and of the popular government. See, you have been complicit in the suppression of lines and stops of medium-distance rail transport; accomplices of the suppression of routes, reduction of frequencies and changes in public transport of passengers by road; accomplices of airport uncoordinatedness; accomplices of the non-implementation of the light meters of Santiago, La Coruña and Vigo; accomplices of the irreality of the proximity train; accomplices of rolling new modes of transport that were already implemented; accomplices of perverting the concept of intermodality to convert it into a mere bonus of tariffs; accomplices of excluding – as announced last week – young men and girls under eighteen years of age from 200 and nine municipalities of Galicia from having free public transport. Of all this, you were complicit and also guilty, but you were also complicit and guilty of failing to comply with the electoral programs of your own party, of deceiving the concessionary companies with the extension of the concessions, of failing to comply with Law 14/2003, of 26 December, of rationalization of the autonomous public sector, which in its additional provision second paragraph 3, says: "In the 12 months since the entry into force of the Law, the Galician Union must elevate to the Galician Parliament a draft mobility law of Galicia." The deadline, Mr. Goldar, ended on February 15, 2015, more than a year ago. And they were complicit and guilty, Mr. Goldar, of living for more than six years, in wisdom, with an illegal ruling by the Government of Mr. Feijóo. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this bill, we value and consider the approaches of the opposition parliamentary groups to improve the text presented to us by the People's Group. So we're going to give our support to the twenty-three amendments of the Joint Group, all except the amendments to numbers 4, 8 and 11, that we're going to reject. We cannot accept them because of their content in reducing modes of transport, reducing the proposed timeliness for the development of the new Galician transport plan and reducing the administration's capacity for intervention in situations requiring decision-making to provide solutions. We're going to give our support to the eleven amendments of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. Finally, we are also going to support the six amendments tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block. And I'll be done. What's wrong, Mr. Goldar, barely ends. This law was conceived with deceptions in 2009, born with an illegal resolution in 2010; in this situation it remained latent, in the past six and a half years, in a process of malnutrition by the Popular Party's unselfishness, and ended two months ago in an emergency. Because this bill is treated conditioned by the times, the victim of the calendar, and its content indicates that it will be a minor law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u195	According to the self-revaluation of the council, it's a public transport plan in Galicia that has already renounced entry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u196	Thank you. Two
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u197	...to the category of strategic plan in its processing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u198	Thank you. Three
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u199	Mr. Goldar, what's wrong, barely ends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u200	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u201	They hope that there will be waivers of concessions and claims of [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u202	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u203	Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fernández, again fondly, seemed to hear from my chair that he seemed to be watching a film: a supreme trial, complicit, guilty, at last, was missing the judge to give and pronounce judgment. In any case, I advise you to review the audio of last July's commission - if I don't miss my memory - because this Member doesn't remember to use that term of complicity of companies, among other things because it's not in the usual linguistic acquis of this one. And by the way, because he quotes you and is so meticulous on the dates, because he tells you that, on 18 March, the Supreme Court's judgment was indeed known; for, on 18 March, this same Parliamentary Group but the rest of the opposition except for that of you we present initiatives to consult your opinion on this matter. You weren't on Sunday, no, Monday, that is, those days were to other things, not these. Finally, I shall briefly summarize with your permission the political position of our parliamentary group on the most outstanding amendments, all of which are important, of course, and which have been formulated by the parliamentary groups from the opposition to the legislative text. On June 27, the People's Group offered them, ladies and gentlemen, an answer to each and every one of the amendments presented and which, for the reasons that we then explained to them, could not be accepted. We also tried some transaction with the Joint Group and one more with the Socialist Group, which finally, and for strictly technical and legal reasons, it was not possible to achieve. I shall now briefly refer to some of the amendments tabled by the opposition groups, abounding in the explanations given for their rejection. Thus, for example, in Amendment No 7 of the Joint Group to Article 2(3) of the Replacement Group, which is partly consistent with Article 2(1) of the same Article 2 and Article 5 thereof, and Article 2(3) of the AGE Group, both substitutes, say that the submission of the Galician Public Transport Plan to Parliament's approval does not fall within the scope of a planning instrument which is clearly executive, in addition to assuming an excessive delay which would undoubtedly affect the bidding of the new transport service map. As regards the amendments tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, it should be noted that all 6 of them have been rejected. The fundamental reason behind this rejection is that what this group proposes – said Mr. Jorquera, with due respect – could entail an invasion of local and state autonomy, with the resulting prejudices of all kinds that would lead to their acceptance, and so we reaffirm, Mr. Jorquera, despite what you have said in your first intervention on this matter. I am finally leaving the basis for the rejection of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, because of its special importance. Thus, as regards Amendment No 2 of this group to Article 3(1) of the addendum, in which they request that it be added that "for these purposes it be considered as a significant investment already made by virtue of the modernization plan", since this group, Mr Fernández, believes that this claim, which would affect all contracts in an individual valuation, would collide with the Supreme Court's own judgment. With regard to Amendment No 5 of the same group to Article 3(4)(c) on accessibility requirements, the People's Parliamentary Group is surprised that you distinguish between first- and second-level Greeks and Greeks. The Socialist Group is aware that the state legislation it refers to limits accessibility requirements to compliance with certain requirements. In the case of Galicia, these demands could only be imposed on about 10% of existing concessions, and we, of course, Mr Fernández, will not give up our social policy and equal opportunities for all. And finally, with regard to Amendment No 6 of the Socialist Group, to add a new additional provision on regular public services in areas of weak traffic, which could be provided with vehicles of up to nine squares, from the People's Group, we understand that this new category presents a lot of difficulties. Addressing this question requires a greater and deeper analysis of the consequences that this can lead to and therefore a more comprehensive regulation, which does not seem proper to this law, and less without giving an audience to the sector affected by it. So far, ladies and gentlemen, our political position in the face of the most remarkable amendments that your groups have had to make to this legal text, irrespective of whether we accept some and others have not been able to look for the necessary fit for your introduction into it. We thank them very much for their work, and we are convinced that with their approach and opinions this is already a better rule. Now it is only left that, in the exercise of the ultimate and highest responsibility we have as legislators, we reflect on the desirability of the adoption of this rule. As we have had the opportunity to say on several occasions, we only pursue to provide an appropriate and urgent solution to a serious problem, which if we did not pass this bill today would endanger the provision of a fundamental public service and, as a result, would lead to uncertainty for thousands of people working in this key sector for the economy of Galicia. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, you and your groups still feel different, just like us, and vote favourably for the approval of the dictatorship. Nothing else, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u205	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Debates and votes by the Ditame, drawn up by the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women suffering from gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u206	The particular vote of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the particular vote and the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is maintained in this debate. The structure of the debate is similar to the debate before, and we begin with the presentation of the debate by the chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, Health and Employment, Mrs. Marta Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u207	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The proposed law establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence, submitted by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, was registered on 10 February 2016 and admitted to the House Bureau on 16 February 2016. Following its consideration at the plenary meeting on 24 May, the Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Meeting, agreed to its proceedings by the Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment. The opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulation ended on 21 June, with the formulation of a total of 57 amendments, 4 of the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, 7 of the Galego Nationalist Block Group, 32 of the Galician Socialist Group and 14 of the Galician People's Group. Commission 5th appointed the following keynote speakers: Oabiña Solla, Acuña do Campo, Adán Villamarín, Solla Fernández and Iglesias Sueiro. At the meeting on 4 July, the ruling was adopted by 10 votes in favour and 4 abstentions, with the incorporation of the bill's text, in addition to technical amendments, of a total of 19.6 of those dealt with. The articulated text consists of the explanatory statement, a single article subdivided into three paragraphs and its final part, which integrates with a derogation provision and two finals. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote of the particular votes presented and the amendments maintained, as well as the Ditam of the commission issued on the Bill amending Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence, which I have just submitted. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u208	Thank you very much, Mrs Vispo. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend individual votes and amendments. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u209	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. To congratulate Mrs. Adam on her initiative, to congratulate all those who consider themselves feminists, because this is one step forward, one step further from feminism, one step further towards equality, a very old struggle, a struggle that has never shed a single drop of blood, a struggle that continues and will continue, until we all achieve total equality. Allow me, please, a brief introduction to argue my position with regard to the amendment of Law 11/2007, for the regulation of a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence, and also treats it for the purpose of sexual exploitation. Today's society, despite the progress and achievements – I repeat – of the Feminist Movement that fomentes legislative changes in the field of equality, has not yet emerged from patriarchal ideology. The patriarchate can be defined as a system of gender-political relations based on different public and private institutions and on interclass and intergenic solidarity established by men, which as a social group, and individually and collectively, oppress women – both individually and collectively – and appropriate their productive strength and their reproductive strength, their bodies and their products, whether by peaceful means or by violence. This model, the heteropatriarchal model, enshrines multiple discrimination, of all kinds, of women against men and legitimate unfair situations, such as lack of economic independence, wage gaps, sexual discrimination of work or labour inequality, among others. The patriarchal system affects all facets in the lives of women and men. It's one of the most serious manifestations of men's domination over women, and that's violence in couples and trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation. The German law for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence has been a major step forward. Another little passion, lovers of feminism, who can transfer their demands to the legislators. Well, I have come forward to remedy obstacles to women who want to break the chain of ill-treatment and sexual exploitation. A law that contemplates psychological aid, health aid, legal aid, but which leaves aside economic aid, the economic question, better said, when this is not a minor matter. In many cases the economic issue is the main obstacle or one of the most decisive that women must overcome to leave behind the hell of violence or the hell of sexual exploitation. And that's the submission of their families and themselves to the batterer. Many, more and more, as the labour market is, are economically dependent on who abuses or exploits and kidnaps, to which it must be added, too, that many of them have little work experience or low vocational training. This problem is still accentuated, if it fits more, in women victims of trafficking, foreign women, goods from the mobs, who in many cases even don't know the language and find themselves undocumented. Fear and uncertainty paralyze the victims. To end with this kind of criminal and unnatural practices, for their inhumanity, would be ideal, but while we wait for a society in which masculine violence disappears and that in a co-educational system teaches us from children to destruct patriarchal roles, welcome are all legislative measures that cushion the situation of the current victims of this type of structural violence and help them get out of it to achieve the right of any human being to live a life free of violence and exploitation. Up until now women in situations of ill-treatment who wanted access to an economic benefit should wait for this to be summoned, so it could only be requested between March and October. The bill put forward and passed by an absolute majority takes its consideration into consideration in a previous plenary meeting corrects this ejaculation. It corrects this water of law by converting aid to victims by law into a permanent application, which will serve – and it will undoubtedly serve – to speed up and facilitate proceedings. And what is very important will encourage many women to break the silence of ill-treatment. I would like to remind you, again, that four out of every five women, mistreated at home, do not report, being the determining economic issue in order to do so. In addition, this bill incorporates the victims of trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual exploitation, a crime that in itself constitutes one of the most terrible violations of human rights of immense magnitude, a way of modern slavery and one of the most accessible facets of gender violence. Also, the most lucrative business for mobs operating around the world, after the trafficking of weapons and narcotics with profits ranging from $10 million to $12 million, according to the organization Peace and Development. Since states, since their governments, are not able to prevent – as they should – and punish – as they should – this delitative practice that heeds and violates the most fundamental human rights, it is well that at least they are visible and contemplating in the Welsh legislation as victims of gender-based violence, with all the protection and recognition that gives them Greek law. I will not speak anymore, it is all said, and the importance of adopting this bill tabled by Mrs Adam is a cause for joy, satisfaction and pride for the whole Parliament of Galicia. I did not present amendments for considering that the fundamentals were collected in the original text, and also to speed up parliamentary proceedings. I shall therefore vote for this LNP. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u210	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the AGE Parliamentary Group, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u211	Thank you, President. These days we knew that the data provided by the Ministry of the Interior persists, indicating that every eight hours a woman is raped in the State. It's data similar to that of past years, but it's kept stable or even increased. We're talking about sexual assaults with penetration and we're talking about those that are reported; we'd also need to see them as gender-based violence, and what are they, if not? Some organizations were giving these days data that, approximately, women who denounce these facts are one sixth of those who really suffer sexual assaults of this caliber. So, if we learned this data, it would be one every forty-eight minutes in the state, which is a barbarity. In 2015, eight women were murdered in Galicia and two girls, and we have moved since many of the women victims of gender-based violence – the previous rapporteur has just commented – do not even report. We have already debated which are the likely causes – variable – that make it impossible to denounce, among them, the feeling of lack of protection or the feeling of lack of sufficient measures to support them after that complaint, among many other causes, which obviously also affect their psychological situation. They are examples of a machismo that strikes us every day, and I would like to ask, in a rhetorical way, how many Members of this House could continue to be victims of different types of violence, of different types of discrimination, even by their own companions. I believe that practically all of us, all of us, suffer it, all of us women suffer discrimination and violence to some extent. I would comment on the voice of the Joint Group that, indeed, this corresponds to the patriarchal system in which we live. And, therefore, laws on gender-based violence must not only be improved and expanded, but must become effective. It is quite a deep debate that we have had in the Equality Commission, in which many of the rapporteurs reported that the current laws, despite the fact that they can actually not even comply with much of their own measures. So it turned out – we've already put it into consideration – quite painful enough that when a point of improvement was detected, as was precisely the one concerning the deadline in which periodic assistance could be sought for women suffering from macho violence, not only did the Government not only want to improve it, but it denied the existence of this problem. Years have passed – because we've been with this Equality Commission for years – and it's been for many months, from the last part-session in which we were told that this problem was not so, until they finally had to admit it. And it was finally – I thank Mrs. Adán for bringing this initiative to debate in this House – but I do regret – and I said in her consideration – that it was a bill proposed by a parliamentary group that she had to propose or try to correct this aspect which, of course, we understand that the Equality Secretariat itself could have corrected or proposed this legal amendment if it had been sensitive to this issue. The reality is that this parliamentary group has already agreed to amend the law in these terms, because it is true that when the debate was held on the consideration of the People's Party, it was limited to saying that they accepted to make an amendment to the current Law on Gender Violence and not a specific law; we knew it when that took into consideration. This group has already said that on that day, there were some aspects that it considered to be likely to improve and, therefore, we presented four amendments – the law is very concrete, it is very attentive. We have maintained these amendments, but the parliamentary procedure has made it necessary, when the amendments of the People's Party were introduced, to defuse the legal text when it became an amendment to the Gender Violence Act, to finally issue a particular vote in order to keep them. And that's because, despite the repeated requests from this group that some aspect of the content in the amendments was attempted, there was no way from the Popular Group, or we were transferred that there was no permission from the Executive. So I am summarizing the four amendments that seemed important to us, at least to hold this debate. One is the relative moment when the victim must cease living together in order to be able to access that benefit. We were faced with the dilemma of if that condition had already ceased to exist, it could prevent some women, who did not have any kind of support at the level of their social or family circle, from being able to leave the home they shared with the aggressor man in order to be able to seek help. And, therefore, we are presenting that Amendment No 1, which would tone the cessation of coexistence or require the granting of aid in order to stop this coexistence. In respect of Amendment No 2, the residence permit required for women victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation shall be effective. It considered this group that there was no extraordinary procedure for granting residence, as we have requested – but we know perfectly that the Ministry of the Interior should take it upon itself – the bureaucratic procedure of the papers relating to the residence of these women could cause the granting of this aid to be delayed within a period of time. And we ask you, please, to try to compromise so that, at least, when these proceedings are under way, these women could also ask for that help. Even though we were told that it was usually done this way or that, in some ways, it was processed in this way, the reality is that it is not in the legal text. And we understand that this is harmful to ensure the effective rights of these citizens who, in this case, are in an irregular situation. Amendment No 3 concerning Article 3 of the original text, which could be dealt with under Article 38 of the Gender Violence Act, spoke of something which we consider very important, which is compatibility with other benefits or subsidies. With the current legal text, the collection of this periodic aid makes it impossible to share with other kinds of help that women can enjoy because of their economic and social situation. We understand that it is not so much the number of aids, but that the limit should be established according to the economic top of those aids. And we understood that the amendment submitted was sufficiently lax to leave that regulation of the economic top in the development of the subsequent decree. What we think is that there are possibilities when a woman needs and has the right to access another type of social or economic aid, how can it be emergency aid, and that it should not be incompatible in any way with "enjoy" – between you eat and enjoy – this aid, which tries to help, in some way, women in a situation of macho violence can abandon their coexistence with their aggressor. The fourth amendment tabled by our group was conditional, as to the obligations of the beneficiaries regarding training and socio-work placement courses, that in case there was any health reason to prevent participation, there was no reason for the loss of aid. We also understand that the situation arising from a case or from a situation of macho violence may lead to physical or even psychological health problems that prevent women from, in some cases, participating in certain courses, or in certain training or programs. In short, this group will obviously not prevent this improvement from being granted regular aid to victims of gender-based violence, which could basically be summarized as being available throughout the year and which women are able to access them for the purpose of sexual exploitation. But he obviously understands that the text could be more ambitious and these improvements could be taken into account by the Secretariat of Equality to facilitate, even more, the granting of such aid. Obviously, there is a lot to be done and there are many aspects to which we believe that the law has to be modified, because today they are necessary, and almost mandatory, some improvements that we have already discussed in this Equality Committee and that we understand that unfortunately this legislation will end without a dictatorship that can assess the interesting appearances that it has been made on the part of not only the experts at the administrative level but also the groups of women affected or even the feminist women's groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the BNG Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u213	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we all wanted to get to a parliament and be able to enact a law among all those that contained a single article, clearly, that said that the heteropatricate was abrogated. From here on, all of us would be equal and free, and therefore we would live within social justice. We know that this is impossible – I don't know if I write it, but I don't do it – that the only possibility we have to go and conquer larger spaces of equality, and also freedom, is through two ways – they correct me if I am wrong –, an individual, in our daily practice – and I make my own words that the staff is political. We try – certainly since the contradiction that means life, surely from our own eves, from our own fears, from our own building of identity – every day to transform into our lives, and from those of those and those around us, that reality to live in spaces of greater equality and freedom. And another line is the collective line in the social and the political, and in the social, allow me to apologize that I am not with us today – although I have confirmed it – the association Yes, Hai Saida, de Lugo, because right now – and they have made it known to us – are in the police station with a victim, and then they're going to accompany the judge, as they do on a regular basis. Because by order of 14 women a day they report, that's one fourth of the women who suffer from gender-based violence, who suffer from female violence. And that's the reality of every day, because what there is from the social point of view are many women, and also men, committed every day to gaining spaces of greater equality and freedom. And I'm allowed here to recognize all the associations and the whole feminist movement. But also in the political sphere, in the field of work, from the councils to the governments, the Government of Greece, and in the field which we, ladies and gentlemen, are responsible for, that is, the legislative field. Lexislar in gender violence is absolutely recent, recently, it is of prime importance, since 2004, if we include measures and the Law of Order of Protection. With many previous debates, indeed, because we didn't even count on categorising that it was this violence that women suffered, that women suffer, that we these days see it cruelly in an absolutely tragic week of deaths, murders, women and rapes of women by groups of men, thinking that women's body is an object to be used. Fortunately, the Welsh law also collects that rape and sexual abuse is masculine violence. And so they are, because, indeed, it's an appropriation of the women's body. I was saying that if you get to the legislation, on the one hand, with organic law, where we all recognize it as a step forward. We discussed a lot in organic law, a lot we discussed those amendments in which only organic law referred to the couple and the former couple. Companions, ladies and gentlemen, we said that this is a step forward and that it will mark one before and one after, and so on, and the laws – let me say it – are of all people who contribute to it, to a greater or lesser extent, and it was a step forward, necessary, surely; I am convinced that it is necessary to modify it at this time. But it has meant twelve years up to this point of order of protection, of trials of violence, of articulating measures and of the visibility of a reality. The German law began to be drafted in 2006, and it is indeed a fruit of the work of many anonymous women who have brought their knowledge and assistance to women victims in a collective process and participation so that this law could reach this Parliament. I want to say two things about that law: first, article 3, which assumed, which defined that gender-based violence went beyond the couple and the former couple, and defined in the whole field physical violence, psychological violence, rape and sexual assaults, economic violence, and that's what we're changing today, which in its time has been called trafficking in women, today, fortunately, we're going to call, clearly, how it deals with women and children for sexual exploitation. Yes, indeed, the second most lucrative business in this world, on this planet, today, which means the slavery of the 21st century, where children and women are forced to prostitute themselves by leaving their whole life in the trash, and with a difficult recovery and a difficult to survive. Today, while we're talking here, thousands of women in the world are being treated; that's male violence and gender violence. And today we are going to collect it through this amendment to Article 3. But modifying an article to include trafficking is not an end in itself, but to guarantee rights to those women who are suffering from this masculine violence, that kind of violence. So it's true that the change is humble, that the change is not as ambitious as we all want, of course. We have brought, from the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, this law twice the debate, twice; in the second time the People's Party, which is the majority group of this House, accepted its treatment under two conditions: firstly, that it would be changed that it was for the whole year, something reiterated by all women's associations that was necessary, and secondly, that it was for the incorporation of trafficking in women and children, which would mean clearly recognizing in all the articulate of that law that all rights and psychological care – health care, economic care, financial benefits, housing aid or employment – would clearly be referred to for those women who, leaving this situation of trafficking, must be incorporated into everyday life. Therefore, from this very rostrum – I in particular from this same rostrum – I have accepted that under these conditions the law had been dealt with, and indeed we have tabled amendments to the law itself which we will present to reach those agreements. We've reached those agreements in the processing and presentation process. In fact, it was a presentation procedure, let's say, I mean, we'd like to have more time, we'd really like to make the law ideal, but we're actually, where we can approve today. And we come to that agreement, that economic benefit is going through all year round and that women and girls who suffer treat for sexual exploitation as women who suffer from gender-based violence, and therefore that they are given all the rights that appear in the Greek Law for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. A small step, surely, but a step. Clearly one step! And step by step, little more we can do, we would! but little more we can do; though we have eyes on the stars, we often have to have feet on the ground. That's why it's important for us that this law should be passed today and put into operation, and that the budgets of the year 2017 pick up the budgetary departure needed for it to be opened all year round, and that when a woman comes to a CISG they don't tell her in November that she has to wait for March, but it can be processed in November; it's an advance! And also that by the time a woman comes out of a situation of trafficking, from that difficult situation of slavery, she has the right to work, she has the right to a housing, and that her periple is a little, a little, a little, simpler, because the administrations make it easier for her, because she's already collected in a law. That is our contribution, that of the Members we are debating this law and that we are going to defend it today. I withdraw the last amendment, Amendment No 6, regarding the explanatory statement. I do not even want us to enter the debate on this amendment, and it seems that it is consistent with the statement of reasons which the People's Party is considering, because it actually collects the Civil Code, where it is clearly collected, in its Article 177a, that trafficking in women and children for sexual exploitation is a crime. So, well, there I take that statement of reasons, because the really important thing is the amendment of Article 3 and the amendment of Article 39, which are clearly modified, and then we can enter, if you want, more often. In fact, in the explanatory statement I collected that concept of freedom wage, which has not yet been accepted by the ESC, in fact, at its own time, did refer to something – although it seems pretentious – that it was only possible to exercise freedom if the situations were given in order to exercise it. A woman who suffers from gender violence and has no economic capacity, can't break that situation, it's much harder to break that situation; psychological dependence exists for all women, they have the level of income they have, but you'll probably understand that it's much harder for a woman who suffers also not to have a salary. From there these economic benefits, and from there their importance, from there their trajectory, and from there that we are today, still Galicia, the only autonomous community that has them for all women, whether they have filed a complaint or not; simply by the fact that they can believe, as collected in article 5 of the Galician Law, that they suffer this situation of gender violence. I'm going to finish. In fact, these days in the press, in the media, we are seeing situations of extreme violence towards women and we are terrified, terrified, and we all want to enact that law that says in its single article that the patriarchate is derogated. But we know that we're only going to get through two ways: sensitization, constant work for visibility which means violence against women, and legislating for women to report, not ashamed of reporting, but feeling free to recognize themselves as a victim of a situation of violence in any of their modalities, whether physical, psychological, sexual or trafficking, and after administrations and governments accompany women and are with them. That's why I want to end with the reading of a philosopher's appointment, allow me, because I really got to the sphere of politics being a humble professor of philosophy who considered that women should be in politics to say what they think and to defend what they think. I met Françoise Collin in 1995, at a congress that changed my life, which was the Congress of Philosophy and Gender. Now he's gone, but a philosopher who has feared violence against women from a very, very, very rigorous perspective. Professor Maria Xosé Agra collects it in an article analyzing social constructions linked to gender-based violence, which teachers Raquel Castilejo and Cristina Alonso Salgado compile in a magnificent volume on gender-based violence and justice. Françoise Collin says that thanks to the lifting of the feminist movement, women have attributed words to a pain until then it changes. They named their humiliation, beginning the humiliation of silence, and were able to see it. This new saying of women is manifested in two lines, says Françoise Collin: "legislative and artistic." We cannot enter art, because it is not of our order, but it is to make visible, through the symbolic, which means the presence of women's pain and violence as a maximum expression of social inequality and power inequality. What we can do is in the legislature, which Françoise Collin says that justice and law, under certain conditions, are able to modify the living conditions of women. Surely today we will not change the living conditions of women, but if some woman, I am absolutely convinced. And for the honourable Members who have been, as I have been, with women who have suffered gender-based violence, there are questions, there are words that are justly kept in a certain box that we carry inside our hearts and that are never forgotten. When we vote on this law, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that, even if it is a small step, it will help to help some women when they arrive at a CISG can ask for an economic benefit. It will really work, in your everyday life, you will be able to ask for that benefit and, too, we will be able to open a path that I hope the State will begin shortly, when Parliament is set up, that it deals with women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation is already recognized as gender violence, and when the mechanisms on the part of the State are crafted so that they have recognized a figure similar to political asylum; that it is the asylum for gender violence so that they don't have to go through all that martyrdom and that revitalization of having to do all the papers to get the residency papers. We opened a small path, we were timidly vanguarded, but vanguarded in 2007, and we came back today, and still – straight – to be small, as we did in the law for the visibility and good treatment of LGBTI people, we voted in favour of a law that was modified in this Parliament, and so I said at that time and I repeat, because any step in the recognition of rights in equality and freedom is a step, and there we will be from the Galician Nationalist Block. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u215	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and good afternoon, too, to the women victims who accompany us today in this debate. Those who accompany us in here and those who are out there, all of them, thank them for their daily struggle against violence and masquerade, and of course, for the continued help they give daily to victims, especially to those who need it most. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group supported the consideration of the legislative text, which for the second time presented the Parliamentary Group of the BNG. We support it with the intention of improving the current Act of Self-Government Violence, with the intention of modifying, in particular, the regulation of the wage of freedom, or, if they prefer, the periodic economic contributions that the victims of gender-based violence receive. And we support it – I insist – because we think – and we continue to believe it – that it was an opportunity to improve a text that, in fact, in 2007 was a pioneer, but today, in some respects, is already insufficient. In these years, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, the concept of the victim has expanded, and now includes, among others, the children and daughters of those women. Although, in honor of the truth, I have to say that we support it with many fears, especially after hearing the speech made by the majority group member, of the People's Parliamentary Group, because in that debate that Member did not hesitate to acknowledge and warn that they accepted the adoption of this reform as a condition of limiting the amendment to two aspects: changing the administrative procedure of that perception and including women victims of trafficking, which I would remind them of, ladies – and gentlemen – and so on – have also noticed some of the members of the committee of study – who have already contemplated it by the Greek law. We are glad, no doubt, that the People's Party finally recognized that the salary of freedom – which was born administratively as a grant – has a few months shadow each year, something that we have been reporting since the Socialist Parliamentary Group for all of these eight years. But we regret that the People's Parliamentary Group had used its amendments and, of course, most of them to eliminate, ladies and gentlemen, to remove, completely delete, the legislative project originally proposed by the BNG Parliamentary Group, and also to remove, with that maneuver, the possibility that we had other groups to make contributions to improve or expand that amendment. That is, that the People's Party after having spent eight years doing nothing, and even denying that there were problems with that salary, decides in the time of discount of this legislation, and with a presentation that lasted only a few minutes, and that it was held practically in the corridors of this House – yes, yes, during the celebration of the full past – to modify the autonomous law of gender violence, to, practically, not change anything. What shows, ladies and gentlemen, that for the People's Party this subject does not deserve, even, a time or a space for a proper debate. Yes, Madam, you won't like it, but that's how I'm describing the facts. That is why, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have, yes, closed all this nonsense in the debate on the 5th Commission's motion, and today we are keeping it here in full. A joke, ladies and gentlemen, that confirms the total and absolute disinterest that Mr Feijóo shows by the victims of gender violence, and that he shows a lack of commitment from his group – Madam Member, don't get nervous – of the People's Group, with the most serious problem our society has, because it is such a serious problem, ladies and gentlemen, men and women, that we can't comply with our passions, a short walk, why a short stroll in the face of such a serious problem? This year they've already killed thirty women, thirty women according to official data, if we go to other sources there's enough more. Yesterday two, today one. But besides those thirty women killed, there are fourteen orphans, and two babies, two minors murdered, one was only forty-five days old. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to deal with this problem by going for a little while? We think we don't, we think we don't. [[Applause]] We are grateful, of course, for the effort and concern of Mrs Adam and her group – it is true – to improve things, but they understand that in these circumstances the Socialist Parliamentary Group will not participate in this pantomime in which the PP has transformed that change that you were proposing, making the initial text disappear. We cannot support an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, which leaves out, precisely, those fourteen sons and daughters, who are as victims of violence as their mothers, orphans and orphans than when they are left without a mother, besides, they are left without nothing. Are you aware of your lordships? They're left with nothing, and it's no use to that argument that they're already getting an orphanage, because they're not orphans, they're orphans of male terrorism, and in the same way that the batter doesn't charge the widow's pension from the woman who kills, their children would not have to charge as orphans, but as victims; by the way, just as they charge the orphans who are victims of other forms of terrorism, and that's precisely what we're trying to achieve with the amendments that we're presenting to the original text, including the concept of a person who's victim of gender violence in those benefits. Well, doomed, no doubt, by masculine violence is the mother, but also, ladies - and that's the evolution and step we have to take - that's what their sons and daughters are. Of course, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have been very concerned about the difficulties and dysfunctions evidenced in the administrative procedure for access to arrivals, so much so that we have been fighting for eight years for these difficulties to be solved. So in the last debate on the Strategic Plan presented by the People's Party for the next four years – there will be about a month – we put forward a proposal to correct this dysfunction, a proposal that was accepted, even if not met. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, we are also very concerned about the trafficking and sexual exploitation of women, something that we have in front of us all, full of neon, but that no one does anything. And precisely because we're very concerned, in the socialist electoral program for the past state elections, we were looking at the punishment of the consumer of prostitution, the customer, for understanding that controlling demand controls the supply, and if there's no business, maybe we can get it out of the way. The person who consumes prostitution, and this I say loud and clear, has to be very clear that he is promoting the trafficking and sexual slavery of women; ultimately, he is an accomplice of that crime. But despite being very concerned about these aspects, we do not share that by collecting in the amendment of the law the right of women victims of trafficking to receive that salary, they are not provided with an appropriate and specific administrative procedure for the circumstances in which these women are. And, precisely, ladies and gentlemen, these concerns were transferred to those thirty-two amendments that we tabled to this bill, of which, by work and grace of the People's Party, were accepted zero; zero, lords, of thirty-two. Amendments that we are now trying to keep with our particular vote, because the People's Party, by making the text disappear, has also removed our approach; amendments, we understand interesting, interesting, interesting to be able to debate them over time, calmly, but above all with commitment and interest. Both the fourteen that we intended to expand the concept of victim of violence, as well as others in which we asked that the money seized by women's traffickers be used for rehabilitation and care of victims of trafficking, which seems quite reasonable, I say. Or in which we ask for special and specific administrative procedures – I insist – to manage the provision for victims of trafficking, because, ladies and gentlemen, let us not deceive ourselves, these women are in such difficult circumstances that it seems impossible, for example, to go to a bank to open an account quietly to receive these abortions, yes, and for these very specific and so special circumstances the logic will be that the Administration enables a system that is also specific or special, and as you know very well, Mrs. Adam, that of asylum, or they contemplate it. Or amendments to which we explicitly request that different and compatible benefits be collected, offset the differences in their accounts in the months in which lower benefits were received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not tire of asking the People's Party to reflect and accept our amendments, and in order to reach an agreement, we will only ask them to accept, at least, those that allow the children and the children of the victims to be included in those benefits. It doesn't make sense to change the law to improve the benefits of victims and, at the same time, to leave the victims out of violence; it doesn't make any sense. Ladies and gentlemen, when a woman is murdered by her abuser, the machismo of our society and the failure of our system is evidenced by the failure of our system, so that society, which has already abandoned the woman in the hands of the murderer, cannot also abandon the children and daughters. While the mother lives, she can help them by sharing the wages she perceives, but when they are left without mother, gentlemen, they are left with nothing, nothing!, and the society in which we live, hypocritical and macho, cannot limit themselves to dispatching them – and I will use this term – with an orphanship aid of 200 euros. We ask respect for the victim's woman, we ask for help and protection for that battered woman, but also for her children and daughters, victims of exactly the same violence as her mother. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you cannot ignore the victims, and we cannot support a change that excludes, precisely, the most vulnerable victims, the most punished: the orphans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oubiña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all, and also to the people who accompany us today from the rostrum. The truth is, Mrs. Adam, we would have to add little more to what you have already said here, but I would like to point to some of the issues, especially those referred to by Mrs. Acuña. After the full May 24th, the bill had been adopted in the light of the motion for a law tabled by the Nationalist Block Galego, which I thank to Mrs. Adam for her generosity, after the different groups had tabled amendments to some of the texts, and if she had discussed and voted on the dictation in the last Commission 5a, today we are at the last step, which is final approval, by the plenary of this House, of the new text which is in a timely manner amending the Geneva Gender Violence Act of 2007, in order to regulate the current economic benefit to which women victims of macho violence are entitled, so that this provision, as has already been said here, can be applied for all year. With regard to the statement of reasons, as found in the award adopted in Commission 5a, it refers to those United Nations agreements regarding gender-based violence, as well as to the responsibility of public authorities as responsible for creating and developing programmes, and also to those services that are both geared towards protection and assistance against gender-based violence, be it at the level of health, legal, social... that is, always in an integral way. And you also collect the change in the process so that the periodic aid is called for this request period, as I said earlier, to be throughout the year. It sets out the need, therefore, to amend the Spanish Law of 2007, by reworking – as stated here – Article 3 to establish as a form of gender-based violence the definition of trafficking in women and children for the purpose of sexual exploitation, characterized by the last amendment of the Spanish Criminal Code, consistent with the reports of the various international organizations working in the field of combating human beings. As it also establishes the amendment to Article 39, to ensure and expand the incorporation of victims of the form of violence as beneficiaries of these periodic aid, in connection with what Mrs. Adán has already said here, which withdrew her amendment which she had tabled in this case. But I want to take stock of the aid, in this case, since 2006, which has been launched, and which is being convened annually through a call order. To say Galicia was the first community to articulate these economic aids for women victims of gender-based violence. Today, few autonomous communities have established them, even if they are collected by their own legislative texts. And the budget allocated to these benefits increased every year despite the economic crisis, and it was this Government that established the express consideration, in a comprehensive decree, in order to be able to meet all those requests submitted with the right to provide. In view of the fact that with the three types of economic aid available in Galicia from 2006 until now nearly 4,000 women have been cared for, with an budget that exceeds the EUR 24 million, and while we note that the budgets of the Union have decreased every year by around EUR 2 billion compared to those of 2008, the fact is that the effort we believe has been considerable. During the discussion of the consideration we stated that, as was articulated, the text of the bill was not the most appropriate for what was really intended. We express our willingness to support taking into consideration on two issues: to incorporate women victims of trafficking into the law for the purpose of sexual exploitation, so that they can access these aids, and we also agree to modify the wording of Article 39, in order to incorporate into the text that these periodic benefits that have been created for ten years – and that are intended to enable the economic independence of the aggressor and to break up the traumatic situation that women who suffer from gender violence – have established themselves in that law of 2007 with an open period of application for every year. In that sense, we present our amendments, fourteen. Agreements have been reached on various texts of the amendments tabled by the People's Party as well as those presented by the Galician Nationalist Bloc, and, in fact, on the other amendments tabled by the other opposition groups, on the basis of those agreements on the texts submitted by the other opposition groups. Because, as it is collected in the amendment text of Article 39, the subsequent development and application of the law will be collected through the regulatory bases, and this was explained during the presentation. And they will therefore be in those regulatory bases where these specific measures have to be collected, such as the requirements, the request for documentation, incompatibility, the obligation of beneficiaries or forms of payment, among others. The laws – I believe we agree – must adopt a broad and unaccustomed regulatory framework in such concrete matters. You know it wouldn't be practical, it wouldn't be operational, or it wouldn't be quick, you could make any timely changes for the benefit of the victims. As we all know, it's much easier to modify a regulatory base than to modify a law, and the most disadvantaged, without doubt, would be the victims. In addition, it should be pointed out that these specific issues are already contained in the annual call order without any problems. So we couldn't reach agreements, because the text of his amendments was formulated in that sense and others were actually not to be the competence of the Council of Galicia. As for the protest made by the Socialist Party, we regret that Mrs Acuña – in both the debate on the wording of the paper as she has just said today – had considered this amendment a joke. I believe that it is a lack of respect for women and also a lack of respect for women, and above all for the honourable Member who is the proposer of this bill. First he proposed modifying the text of the Law 2007, the context of "Women who suffer from gender-based violence" by "People who suffer from violence." This amendment is considered to distort the Welsh Law of gender-based violence as a reference for women victims. This continues to be, Mrs. Acuña, a law that protects all those women who suffer from the social scourge of gender-based violence, which also collects and contemplates the victim status for their children and children, as well as for the other dependents of it. We don't think we can put on the same level the victims of any other kind of violent act and women victims of masquerading violence. As for the possibility that women who are victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation have access to these benefits, today you know that there is no problem. The Greek Law of 2007 already envisages these women as victims of gender-based violence. When a victim takes the step of asking for help, either through the various NGOs, from the Gaga Network against Trafficking or through complaints, even if she has no residence permit, nor has she ever asked for it, since then, Mrs. Acuña, it remains protected. And it is also protected because it is so established, that is to say, this woman is derived from the entities and organizations responsible for providing all the assistance she needs – whether health care, whether psychological, whether housing or legal advice –, providing at all times of accompaniment. This is reflected in the action protocol signed by the Galician Council in 2012 between the Galician Superior Prosecutor's Office, the Galician Council and the Galician Network against Trafficking, which establishes these types of actions. And in that sense, in addition, the officials of the Vigo Emergency Centre, at the last appearance of the non-permanent commission, stated that in those cases of victims of trafficking that they had to deal with, I didn't expect any problems that these women could access these periodic benefits. But, as Mrs. Adam said, we believe that with the new wording of article 3 of the Law 2007 it gives, without a doubt, more legal certainty. You spoke here about the goods seized from the pellets that are destined for the care and rehabilitation of the victims, I think we all agree, which is a positive measure. But you know that it is not a competence of the Galician Union, all the collectives – and so expressed in the non-permanent commission – demand a specific law of trafficking. And it should be in that new framework of the specific law of trafficking, in that new legislative framework, where these and other matters must be collected with application, especially throughout the national territory. As for the minor orphans – because he has made a reflection here – tell him that the state is the one who regulates this issue; although it is not the question of this debate, it is the one who regulates the pensions of the orphans. But I wanted to make a point here in this sense, to improve the pensions of the youngest orphans for macho violence has always been a demand of the People's Party. The People's Party presented in Congress a number of initiatives in that sense already in the last Socialist Government, because it considered that the children and daughters of the fatal victims of macho violence should receive more pension than they had come to perceive, which was the simple pension of orphanhood, but the Socialist Party always opposed. And it was with this Government of the People's Party when the necessary legislative changes were carried out so that they could recognize the absolute orphan's pension to the minor victims of gender violence, expanding both the count and the time until they can perceive it. Moreover, this measure – if not known – came into force last year 2015. As for these periodic benefits, they are also taken into account – as you know – the children and children and other persons who depend on it, and therefore extend their accounts. As for the incompatibilities of Mrs Solla's assistance, with the adoption of this text, this question is sordid. The victim who has the right to receive this benefit for gender-based violence can ask for it from the very first moment without the need to access another – as it was happening on this occasion – especially the income of integration, and even if the summons were closed; which therefore meant compensating the perceived amount. So this measure I don't think you need to add to this text. You also spoke, although you didn't say it here today, but if I'd like to clarify it, that sometimes I needed to look for another form of payment that wasn't the bank account. I want to tell you – we told you at that time – that I do not know any other form of payment that the Administration can establish. That a victim of trafficking can, of course, have a bank account, I think it gives him security and, of course, I think he dignifies it as a person. As for other issues – because I am already finishing time – I repeat that it will be the very regulatory basis that sets out those or other issues that must be established at the time. And in this case – as you know – because we are at the end of the legislation, you would have to draw up, without a doubt, the new government that comes out of the polls; so that, without a doubt too – and so the desire, whether it be the People's Party – comes into force next year 2017. And I want to finish by saying that with the adoption of this new text, if you reach this commitment made by the People's Party in consideration, that it was to incorporate these women victims of trafficking in order to sexually exploit the text of the 2007 Law so that they can, without any doubt, access these aids. And we have come to the amendment to Article 39 so that these periodic benefits that are entitled to all victims of gender-based violence or masculine violence are established in the Spanish Law of 2007, with that period that we all ask for throughout the year. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on individual votes and amendments. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u219	Thank you, President. Mrs. Acuña, I think you're getting confused, here it's about women staying alive, it's about no orphans. That's what it's about... sorry, I think it's my time, I'm correcting it because you talk about orphans all the time, and I think it's wrong, because here's what it's about that women don't die, run away from bad treatment, provide them with the tool for them and their children – and their dependents – to get a life out of violence. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] On the other hand, Mrs. Acuña, it seems, when you use the word people, a myth of Citizens, a myth of Citizens when Mr. Rivera said violence was against people. Male violence, Mrs Acuña, is directed against women; if it's not violence, violence against race difference, violence against different sexual orientation, violence against the weak, violence against the beggars. You, on the other hand, Mrs. Acuña, were cut off from government, why didn't all that robbery take you to the laws at the time and come to release us a rally of citizens here? Frankly, this Member does not understand his attitude. According to the fact that history is not perfect, according to the fact that it has been handled with care, totally agreeing. But if it's not a whole step, it's half a step, and it's worth it to me. And I suppose women who are economically subjected to a batterer – as Mrs. Adam said – at least not all, but there's one. I said to the valet in the morning: the quality; only with one case we saved, Mrs. Acuña. Well, you're talking nonsense, I think it's a very big disrespect. On the other hand, this concern so great that the orphans also have it, this Member has brought here a GNP, which has been approved by most of the whole Parliament that is here, protecting orphans from dead women, who are already dead. But here we try to rescue women so they don't die, the orphan's is another story. And please correct that term of people. That term of people is a term that makes feminism, yes, yes, please, not a step back, not a step back! we are women, and we are women victims of male violence, precisely because we are women. Well, on the other hand, I also want to remind you that, when the LXTBI Act was passed here, it was an initiative of the Socialist Party that was approved because we accept – well, this honourable Member has the honour not to vote – because if you have accepted, you have accepted, an impressive change that has hit the People's Party, because if it is not possible; they have the absolute majority, Mrs. Acuña, and if they do not agree, and they, there is no way, here it is a matter of putting forward steps and not facing us for a common cause. I know that on that bench, I have it very clear, and here I speak of people, there are many feminist people, because feminism is not a left-handed thing, we have a common cause, a common cause among all of us, and everyone in the People's Party, the AGE, the BNG, we're all on the same cause, and of course we're worried about orphans and orphans. [[Applause]] I remind you of the GNP you presented to this honourable Member, I don't know if you would vote in favour of it. I in those things didn't do me, I know it was approved and nothing else. And well, according to this I have just said, the Joint Group is going to vote against the Socialist Party's amendments to 1, to 2, to 30 and 32; we are going to abstain on 3 and 31 precisely because the orphans don't enter. We just want the orphans not to enter, we don't want orphans, we want live women, Mrs. Acuña. We shall vote if the amendments in the form of a particular vote on the Gaga de Left Alternative. And again, congratulate Mrs. Adam, on congratulating the feminists who are up there, because we fight for rights, we fight, yes, and it's a pity we have this confrontation of women. Where is solidarity, Mrs. Acuña, please? Please! Well, I have nothing else to say. Thank you for your attention and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u220	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u221	Thank you, President. Well, this honourable Member does not agree with the inclusion of the term 'persons' for the modification of benefits for women who suffer from violence, although, in view of the debate that was not held during the speech, we are going to vote favourably on the particular vote of the PSOE. We understand that because we do not agree that this allowance is mixed up for women victims of macho violence with the help that children can have – orphans as victims – we understand that the debate is productive, even though we believe it is not the result of the change or at least this timely change that the Nationalist Block of Wales has put in that plenary where all groups vote favourably for consideration. So in view of the fact that the debate was certainly more scarce during the speech, we will vote in favour of the particular vote. With regard to the particular vote of the Alternative Glaga de Left, to transfer to the spokesperson of the People's Party that it is not true that all these aspects are collected in the regulatory bases, I have just consulted them right now and, indeed, today you must be asked, sorry, you have to be interrupted already the coexistence to be able to request it. I would understand that you argued that it is not practical, we actually had a debate during the presentation whether it was appropriate or not that it had already been initiated or that you had an indication of a social service that you really needed help because you have no family support to go before you received that help, but you didn't argue with anything political, let's say, or with nothing practical, but the argument was that it was already collected on the regulatory base, and it's not true. In fact, you don't manifest yourself if you consider it appropriate or not, really. With regard to the rest of the amendments that you say are going to be collected in the post-DoG, which develops the rule, I think very well, but precisely the amendments we put forward would be geared towards not depending on the shift government some aspects that we believe, not being very conflicting, are quite important. In fact, in the amendment of AGE to which I was referring, to the limitation so that it would not be incompatible with receiving another kind of aid, we did not close what was the economic limit that we proposed, because in fact I said that the limit could indeed be developed at a later date, but that we considered important that the perception of another minor aid, and that it could, for example, have a social emergency aid – something that could be different – was not incompatible with that perception of this income, taking into account, too, the accounts, because we are not talking about an excessive counties, but, obviously, it is a minimum count that could allow women to abandon that situation of economic dependence of the aggressor. Nevertheless, this group will vote favourably for the initiative, because we understand that although it does not have, precisely, all the necessary modifications or improvements to the victims of gender violence, as we have been asking for two years, please to extend this order so that it may be requested throughout the year and, indeed, this group advocates that women victims of sexual trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation are victims of violence, so obviously we are going to vote for it; but we also warn that it would be positive that the People's Party of this sensitivity takes note to apply the cost of measures which – as has been said here – have been brought by the rest of the opposition groups, including the recommendations of the United Nations agencies concerning the suspension that the State, and also Galicia, carries out in all matters relating to equality between women and men. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u223	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start thinking a little bit about this debate that we have today. Do you know why we are sometimes so "hate for society"? Because many times we don't know how to be above the acronyms. We are unable to act politically in accordance with certain principles, and surely all of us are. But please, the minute debate we have today! What we're thinking is, can we reach an agreement so that a number of women that we can't determine, but we know that more than one, who reaches an information center to women in November, in December, in January, in February or March, can ask for help? Well that's what we're going to vote for, that's collected by law and that's going to force any government, any government. For me this is an important, very important debate, even if it's a matter that can be considered small, but it will improve the lives of many women. And I know that today we are opening up a road to trafficking in women and children for sexual exploitation, and we are opening it up. It might seem to us that it's still a very small road, but we're opening a path. And so if you legislate, equally, opening those paths. And I say it honestly, I'm going with some pity that we don't know how to be on certain subjects above the abbreviations, because the abbreviations are only instruments, they're never ends in themselves, because the end in itself that keeps us here is to act according to our conscience and to improve the lives of the people who are out there; otherwise, it doesn't make sense to be a Member or a Member. I'm sorry! [[Applause]] I agree with Mrs. Churches, I have said it all my life, but I keep it, feminism is of all women, also of men, indeed. But I think we must neither abandon the term women nor exclude any woman. I think so, and I have defended it on the theoretical plane and on the practical plane, because I understand it. If we don't recognize ourselves as women, with the difficulty that it had for the women who preceded us to arrive at the parliaments, we'll have a bad legacy to leave our daughters. Bad legacy we'll leave! First we have to recognize each other, and I recognize all the women in this House, both older and younger, all the women we work in the field of equality over these years. And I brought two laws during this legislation, that of conciliation and this, little children, with mistakes, indeed, the laws that we could make from my parliamentary group. I supported the initiatives, but I am sorry that they did not bring much more ambitious laws! We would also support them, of course we would support them, of course! But we actually support Mrs Iglesias when she brought up the subject of the orphans. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen who are going to rule in Madrid, in fact, improve the orphans' benefits, but don't confuse them with this initiative, which says that for women to break their ties with the aggressor, and so was thought in 2006, not because they had happened to the Secretary of Equality at that time, or to anyone, because women's associations demanded it, that they said the most difficult thing to leave the house is that you go with nothing; and the vice president now knows that he has that responsibility, surely that he has met victims, or the secretary of Equality, gives me the same, or anyone else, we have all been with victims who tell you: "He knew the steps of memory, he knew how to get out of the door, because I dreamed so many times that he was going out of the door! but, what were you going with?, what children?, what? If you didn't, really, no sustenance." It's very easy to be here and vote, very difficult to suffer a situation of gender violence, to have two children, three children and not to have a single euro, to know your steps by heart and that you don't have a friend who comes with you, no one who can take you out of that house, where it's absolutely a prison; that's the reality of gender violence, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that this is a very small, very small step, but to me only if a woman can ask for the wages of freedom, she can ask for the economic benefit for as long as she could not be asked before, objectively met. We can all sleep and all be quiet that today we do win the salary, much more than when we debate the Metropolitan Area, and I don't know how many laws we debate today. Because this, in fact, will come to someone who lives in a situation of extreme oppression. If you've never heard of a woman suffering from gender-based violence, you probably won't understand my words. I want to finish, because here I've always quoted, as a Member, a lot of poets, philosophers, but I want to finish, above all, with a tribute to the women who really with their strength made us here fighting for equality, even though they never used those words, which are our grandmothers and our mothers. Women who didn't know how to read, who didn't know how to write, and who, on the other hand, knew how to transmit so much. That is why I am allowed, ladies and gentlemen, we who continue to think that step by step is equal and free, that ends with these verses of Chus Pato de The Dust Bridge: "Like all the women who preceded me and who started their singing in harvests or saws, bright and silky, I, the first of all that I can't dig, harvest, or harvest, would like to communicate language, creation, linguistic practice, writing." We, ladies and gentlemen, who leave legislation, who also know women, to keep moving forward, however difficult it may be, step by step. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. About the amendments, the amendments, the amendments. Yeah, tell me later. Tell me later about the amendments. Okay, thanks. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u225	Thank you very much. Well, I, first of all, reassure the debate, it is interesting to change the provision of economic approaches to victims of violence, which is concerned, and I insist, victims are also orphans, so I think it is useful to talk about the possibility of economic benefits for orphans, to be released, of course, also from the abuser and the aggressor. But it is only that, in addition, that change to which these gentlemen, the Counsellor, have been able to make, for eight years, when they wanted, without reaching this heated debate. Well, in the budget debates, yes, yes!, in the accompanying law these eight years brought rare things, for look how well they could make this change. We are talking about the possibility of something much more ambitious – yes, gentlemen – of something much more ambitious to try to face a very serious problem – I insist – the most serious problem our society has, and I don't know if it persists so hard, precisely, because it is exercised over women, and because of this submission and surrender that we always have women; I think if it had been exercised over another collective, the measures would be much harder and much more ambitious. I am going to address the honourable Member of the People's Party, of course that the laws later develop in later regulations; listen, of course, but it would be very good if the articulated had previously taken up the commitment to develop later. What's wrong with being disrespectful? Of course, it's disrespectful, but not ours, but what the majority group did with the bill presented by the Nationalist Block of Wales, much more ambitious and much more complete. It's disrespectful, you've eliminated it, you've eliminated it, yes, so the changes will hang them in the original law of 2007. What's that called, then? Besides, in the time of discount, when it takes five minutes to finish the legislation. Look, everything's fine with the deal, and we're going to fix the lives of the women victims of the deal with this change. You tell me what is the percentage of women who are victims of trafficking who may be or who are being treated, to this day, with these administrative procedures. What percentage of the total victims? And let us compare, if this is approved today, that it will be adopted by the majority, how many will be attended when they have been in office for one year with this very administrative procedure today? I say, and I'm afraid, that very little, very little. We don't have skills, I don't know, with drug traffickers, why don't we have pimps, women's dealers? As for Mrs Iglesias, I understand that you have messed with the parties, seeing your trajectory: Communist Party yes, yes, yes, forgive me!; AGE; Mixed, and now it will look like the People's Party, I don't know if you'll end up there. [[Laughter]] But look, I'm going to clarify something, we don't have a problem, we're not citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u226	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u227	...to see, let's see. If you address me in that tone, I can answer. Look, we're not Citizens, we're the Socialist Party, that party that when he ruled law for equality, the first one that made the Law of violence. Yes, we are going to see, pioneer throughout Europe, a party that always governs is seeking progress for women, because feminism is clear that it is not exclusive of socialism, but rather of progressism, Madam President, yes of progress.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u228	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u229	I can be wrong, I'm sure I'm wrong, so I'm going to propose to you, gentlemen, the same thing you proposed in the commission, we'd go out, talk to the victims, listen to what they have to say, and then we'll vote. Why don't we do that? What are we afraid of? Who knows better are they, yes, ma'am, of course, yes, Madam, women who are victims of violence, of course! And I was talking about women victims of gender-based violence, but also about their children and their daughters, who unfortunately, as they kill them, are orphaned. And I wonder, when we're going to take care of you, aren't they fit in this change? When are we going to take care of you, where are we going to take care of you? Because we like it or not, they exist, and they exist because they kill their mothers; of course, they kill their mothers. Look, something as serious as the victims of gender-based violence and the economic aid they perceive cannot turn the PP into an undisputed trickle in the time of discount of the legislation, just for one thing, to be well at the doors of the next autonomous elections. You can't use it by the People's Party, because it's the People's Party that's using it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u231	...not these benches; not the bill that presented the Galician Nationalist Block, no, these benches. You can't use this minimal change – I insist – to wash your face after you've been cutting budgets for eight years and eliminating equality policies as the victims increase daily, women victims of gender violence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u232	End it, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u233	We can't afford that. We cannot allow this lack of commitment and respect for the victims.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u234	Finish, please, you still have to pronounce on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u235	...–reformed–. In this lack of respect we will not be found by the socialists; the socialists, that party that we have been fighting for equality for a hundred and thirty-seven years, and that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u236	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Acuña. About the particular vote of the Alternative Gaga de Left? Do you support him? Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oubiña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is that nothing I can say now here will improve or add anything new to what Mrs. Adam has already said in her reply. But, of course, I would like to tell Mrs Acuña, for the Socialist Party, that I would like the Socialist Party, at least, to be conscious and sensitive to this change and, of course, to rectify its vote and vote in favour. I think you, after what all the voices of the various opposition groups said, that we don't share acronyms, that we can be on the anthipates in many things, of course you, Mrs. Acuña, didn't understand anything, and of course, for this board of Galicia the victims of gender violence are attended, are a priority in everything they need for the Committee of Galicia. To tell Mrs Solla, concerning her amendments, that this measure, of course, is to break up coexistence with the aggressor, and it is necessary for the woman to have economic means to be able to break up with the situation of violence. Help on incompatibility is always incompatible. Budgets are not unlimited, and women, of course, need not only to be subsidized, but rather to have that push needed to get out of that traumatic situation, which is gender-based violence, and yet, after that, they can have other economic aid. So, Mrs. Acuña, tell you that one of the worst social epidemics facing women worldwide, without distinction of race, no distinction of creeds, no distinction of social classes or political colors, is male violence. You know that this scourge affects both women and their families, but it also represents social failure, the failure of the whole of society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u238	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, Mr. Beiras, you're not in the debate. You're not in the debate, you don't have to! Here were very clear the postures today, therefore, silence. Well, don't even come those five minutes, that's not necessary, huh? So be quiet! [[Mr. Beiras pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want to, I don't have a problem, huh! Quiet. It's in the use of the word to Mrs. Oubina. For that, ask for the word when it's up to you. Silence! Finish it, Mrs. Oubina, when necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u239	Mr. Beiras, despite significant progress in the fight against macho violence, both at the legislative level and with the most advanced laws, and which are recognized as such internationally, no country has been able to get rid of this scourge, regardless of the political colour of the government that bears that country. And I would like to remind you here, too, that it was the Government of the People's Party who amended the 2004 Organic Law, Mrs. Acuña, to include minors as victims of macho violence, and to tell you that article 2 of the Welsh Law, in which the scope is collected – as Mrs. Adán has already said in her first intervention – states that the measures provided for in the law will apply to all women who live, who reside, who work in Galicia and find themselves in a situation of violence, as well as to their children, and to the other persons who depend on them, thus increasing the amounts to be perceived. And I'll be done, Mr. President. To say, in addition, a punctualization, that since last year this Government here, which, according to you, eliminates everything and does nothing, already envisages that this periodic benefit can be maintained, even when it is justified to transfer to another autonomous community of women victims for security reasons. And I want to finish, because there is no longer any time left – I think everything has already been said here – by thanking all the spokesmen of the opposition for their position in this sense, and especially for thanking Mrs. Adam for her willingness to reach agreements on the texts dealt with on such an important and so sensitive subject, especially for women who suffer from gender-based violence. I hope that in the coming legislation the government that leaves the polls – and that, as I said before, I wish it to be the People's Party – will continue to move forward in the fight against violence. So we, this group, are going to support the text as it is taken up in committee. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. At the end of the debate on the legislative texts, we started the votes. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u241	First, the Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs, on the draft law amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. First, we begin by voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative. The Joint Group stated that amendments 8, 11, 12 and 16 were voted separately, as did the Nationalist Block Galego, which also asked for that vote separately from 8, 11, 12 and 16. We therefore vote first of all on these amendments. Sorry, tell me. Give a voice to Mr. Dorado's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u242	He said that, as we spoke earlier in the debate on the motion, we were going to support Amendment 5, and we were talking about a transaction in Amendment 9, so we obviously wanted those two to be able to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u243	I already have it here, but we would do it later; the PP has already stated that it accepts Amendment No 5 and a transaction about 9. But we voted, first of all, these I said, and then we talked about those two. Let us first vote on Amendments 8, 11, 12 and 16. Let's get rid of her, let's see. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Tell me. But here's what Mr. Abel Losada said. Mr. Losada separately asked for 2 and 13 and another block for 10 and 12. I've got it separately, but we're going to do this first. If I do it, in my own way, we'd better know [[Laughter]] We are going to vote on the amendments separately, 8, 11, 12 and 16, which also coincide with the amendments of the Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, 8, 11 and 12 and 16. We are voting on the amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. We vote. Who's asking separately? But it's not the same, then we vote for the Socialist Group, which separately calls for 2 and 13 and 10 and 12, but we vote now, first, these and then we vote for the others, nothing happens. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, 12 matches his AGE, yeah, right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we vote that too, come on. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. It was that little confusion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We voted separately to 8, 11, 12 and 16, which coincide with Amendments 8, 11, 12 and 16 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, and also 12 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Yes, but I meant to do it my way and nothing happened. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? [[Murmurs.]] I can't hear it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u244	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u245	If they let me do it to myself, I might as well do it, because it had been well structured.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u246	President, we propose to you is what Mr. Abel Losada told us, which is to vote separately on 8, 11 and 16, on the one hand, and 12 on the other; because we ask for a separate vote on 10 and 12, which will probably not coincide with the vote on 8 and 11 and 16.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u247	Well, let's see, let's start doing it as I said, see how it goes. Yes, we're going to vote, it's just that this data is a little complicated. [[Protests.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I see, Mrs. Martínez. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, if everything's settled!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u248	Well, there's a problem, because I'm not going to vote the same thing, I'm going to vote the same thing in these four, and if it's going to be included in the next two, that is, 12 has to go voted alone so that we can vote different things, because we have a different position of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u249	It can be a solution. First, we voted on Amendment No 12. [[Murmurs.]] It could be, neither was the other one bad, but well, it's all the same, it's all right. [[Murmurs.]] Amendment No 12 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the draft law, as amended by Law 4/2012 of 12 April, of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the dictates of the commission. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 6; votes against, 53; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u250	And now we vote what I said earlier, less than 12, in particular, 8, 11 and 16 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which corresponds to those of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and those of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Vote for Amendments 8, 11 and 16 G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left to the Bill, as amended by Law 4/2012 of 12 April, of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 38; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u251	And now we have voted separately, too, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, which I proposed to vote separately the Nationalist Block of Galicia, in particular to 1, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 13. Is that correct? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ask separately to 1, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 13. This is what I took note of. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 10 and 13. That's what the lady said... yes. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry. At 1 and 4 separately? Looks like they want to vote like this. We vote 1 and 4 separately. Vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 4 of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left to the Bill, as amended by Law 4/2012 of 12 April, of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u252	And now we vote on 2, 6, 7, 10 and 13. Vote for Amendments 2, 6, 7, 10 and 13 G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left to the Bill, as amended by Law 4/2012 of 12 April, of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u253	We are now voting on the proposal made by the People's Parliamentary Group, which is Amendment No 5, which proposes to accept it. You accept Amendment No 5, so we have to vote on it. And the 9th deal if they bring me in, if you read it, we also vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u254	Thank you, President. It would be added to the text of the amendment; I literally read the amendment and then the addition of the text: "Realize permanent control of concessional or direct public services, as well as compliance with their obligations." And now the transaction: "when the competition in metropolitan transport is fully transferred to the Vigo Metropolitan Area."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u255	Thank you. Vote of Amendment No 9 and Amendment No 5 to the G.P. People from Galicia to the Bill amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. These amendments are therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u256	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego Draft law amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u257	And now we are voting on the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to the draft law amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, not incorporated into the dictates of the commission, except paragraph 12. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u258	And now we are voting on the committee's dictation. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I asked for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Yeah, he's right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, what happens is we vote on 2 separately before. Well, it's the same. We voted for Amendments Nos 2 and 13 of the Left Gaga Alternative Group, which you asked for separately, what happens is that I with this mess don't know if they were voted with the... yes, they were voted on as well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Vilan, they've been voted. Yes, they've been voted on. We voted for the committee's ruling. Yes, they've been voted on, have you complicated me... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We voted for the committee's ruling. You, for example. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on the draft law amending Law 4/2012 of 12 April of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. The voting is positive. The Committee's opinion is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u259	We are now voting on the draft law for the creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy in Galicia by means of a single reading procedure. There was a vote of a refund amendment from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed in the draft law for the creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 4; votes against, 58; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u260	Yeah? What happened? What's the matter? No, he votes for the refund amendment. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to be a little more careful, if it's not a mess. I said: we voted on the refund amendment made by the Joint Parliamentary Group. This is complicated, the revalids are difficult to pass sometimes, of course, it's complicated! [[Murmurs.]] Well, of course, they tell me, but the revalid is for everyone. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So I voted for the amendment to return the Joint Parliamentary Group – I said so –. Shall we vote again? Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed in the draft law for the creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 3; votes against, 54; abstentions, 11. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u261	Attention, please. We are now going to vote on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego as a whole, with alternative text. There's a deal with point 5 that makes the Galician Nationalist Block proposal. So, first of all, we are voting on this compromise proposal on point 5. Voting of the transactional text of point 5 of the Galego Nationalist Block to the draft creation law of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, it's hard to understand. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 67. The voting is positive. The proposal for a unanimous transaction is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u262	We now vote for the bill. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, we voted on the amendment to the entire alternative text of the Nationalist Block in Wales. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, from the Nationalist Block Galego to the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u263	We now vote for the bill. Vote for the Bill of Creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65; votes in favour, 2. The voting is positive. The draft law was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u264	We are now voting on the Ditami Commission's draft law on the creation of the provincial schools of economists by merger of schools of business owners and economists and assistants in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. We vote directly to dictate. Ditame vote, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the creation of provincial schools of economists by merger of schools of business owners and economists and assistants in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 65; abstentions, 2. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u265	We now vote on Ditame, drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan 2007-2021. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. Mixed to the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan 2007-2021 not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u266	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Galga de Left to the Bill of the Greek Statistical Plan 2007-2021 not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These refunds are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u267	We voted for amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting G.P. amendments. from the Nationalist Block Galego to the draft law of the Greek Statistical Plan 2007-2021 not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the draft law of the Polish Statistical Plan 2017-2021 not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 3rd, Economics, Farms and Budgets, on the draft law of the Polish Statistical Plan 2017-2021. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 1; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u268	Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, in the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system. Separate voting of G.P. amendments. Joint, specifically 4, 8 and 11, which is a request made by the Socialist Group. Vote for Amendments 4, 8 and 11 G.P. Joint motion for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 53. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Voting of the remaining amendments to the G.P. Joint motion for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u269	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galga de Left Alternative to the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u270	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Galician Socialists to the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures to update the public transport system of Galicia not incorporated in the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u271	We voted for the Commission's ruling. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law on urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u272	Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, in the Proposal for a Law establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence. First of all, we shall vote in favour of the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Vote of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative to the Bill by which a periodic economic benefit is created and regulated for women who suffer from gender-based violence not incorporated into the commission's dictation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u273	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Bill establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 47. The result of the vote is negative. This particular vote is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u274	The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has expressed its withdrawal from Amendment No 6, and it has come to tell me Mrs. Adam what his position was with regard to the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u275	At 1, 2, 30 and 32, on the one hand, and at 3 and 31.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u276	Excuse me, 3 and...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u277	And to 31.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u278	3 and 31. That matches the view of the Joint Parliamentary Group. So we voted first of all on Amendments 1, 2, 30 and 32 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of Amendments 1, 2, 30 and 32 G.P. of Galician Socialists to the Bill establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 47. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected. Vote on Amendments Nos 3 and 31 to the G.P. of Galician Socialists to the Bill establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence not incorporated into the commission's dictatorship. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 38; abstentions, 9. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u279	We voted for the Commission's ruling. Ditame's vote, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the Proposal for a Law establishing and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 52; abstentions, 15. The voting is positive. It is therefore approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u280	We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the decrease of teaching staff and researcher in the University System of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u281	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I understand that at this hour and after such a long session we may be tempted not to listen, but we're going to talk here, I think a very important problem, a very serious problem for our Greek university system, which is also a problem for society as a whole, because it's the university, therefore, research and innovation, the only sectors that can print a breakthrough to this society, not only economic, but from all points of view. And our universities are having a lot of problems, as we've already put or tried to put evidence into the defense of the Counsellor in the past. But one of them, a very important one, is the lack of teaching staff, also administration staff and services; a lack of lost personnel around, fundamentally, in 2012, not only because of the crisis, but because of a very specific legislation of the People's Party in Madrid. On the one hand, I'm talking about the replacement rate and, in addition, the absolute freezing of contracts, on the other, but also about the policies of the People's Party in Galicia around all the cuts – of which we will also talk – to universities. But the problems of teachers and service staff are extremely serious, because the loss of staff is very high. Despite the fact that Mr. Counsellor wanted to make artificial fires with the figures, what the Conference of Rectors of the Spanish Universities says is that, between 2011 and 2014, the teaching staff of the Greek universities went down at 7.5%. Seventy-five percent in very few years, in three courses, practically of descent, 400 teachers less than they have in three years our universities. A situation that is not unique in addition, it is true, of the University of Galicia, is present and very gravely at the Spanish public university, with a loss of staff around seven thousand jobs, 5,000 of them teachers. And – I insist – from the public, because of the Spanish privates, teachers did not descend in numbers, but doubled. That's something that needs to be taken into account, too, why this kind of policy and legislation is being carried out in Spain. In any case, he said that at all universities it happened, but with a very clear difference, that we are – as the counselor often says – at the vanguard of everything. Yes, we're in the vanguard, because it turns out that the average loss of teachers in Spain is 5.7, and we have a percentage of teachers loss of 7.5. Therefore, much higher. I know that the People's Party – as Mr. Counsellor said – will say that this is not true, that it is not. I don't want to get into disputes because I know, moreover, that I'm not going to convince, rather I'm not going to convince the People's Party to tell the truth, but this descent as a teacher is not what I say, we're going to see what the universities say, what the students say, what the teachers say, what the rectors say. So what they're saying publicly is, "USC's professor researcher dropped 24% in one year." "The USC will close this decade with 550 less teachers." The USC's Deputy Director of Educational Offers and Innovation: "The human decapitalization of the university is very serious." "Alumni of Maxisterio and Philosophy spend the night closed in demand of teachers." "The USC Education Dean alerts against the precariousness of the teacher." "Medicina lost 43 of the 80 teachers' places at the concert with the Sergas." "Gestal" – the Dean of the Faculty of Medicine – warns that the retirement of teachers will leave USC medicine in a dramatic situation." "Medicina sees her future threatened by being without a teacher." The rector gives USC: "The cuts in the USC are already at the limit and some red lines have been crossed," and I faked the serious loss of professor you are suffering. "The Coruños Rector says that the process of covering the bottoms is about university autonomy." Another of the serious elements that are happening in the Greek university system is that there's the PP saying it's not true. We could continue this way: "USC has reduced staff spending 11.5 million in the last three years." About 11.5 million, and you can say on the part of the People's Party that there's no descent as a teacher. Well, the lies, where you can say it, but where you can't believe it is at the university, that you're suffering a loss of teachers and service staff and, therefore, quality, possibility of quality of teaching, of the possibility of growth of extremely serious research. I insist: by a policy of the People's Party on tax cuts, the replacement of the professor, and economic cuts. We must not forget that in these years, from 2010 to 2016, universities have lost 15% of their income, the Greek universities, because the average loss of Spanish universities is 11%. Here too we are the vanguard, also here; in cuts we are the vanguard. It turns out that the Greek university system, both in income and in number of teachers, in constant terms and in faculty, is at the level of 2005. We lost, thanks to the policies of the People's Party, eleven years, more than a lost decade. Despite that, the Greek universities are – and recently it was reflected in the media – at very high-quality levels, but, of course, it all has its end. What we can no longer try – as you are trying through the orders of the Education Council – to cover the university's graduates with professors from related areas, which is what's going on. This is absolutely critical and is being criticized in high school; at the university it is absolutely unacceptable that the areas in which they teach, and there is a circular that obliges this before giving a substitute teacher. That is why we propose that measures should be taken, and in addition to taking measures in the short and medium term. That's why we want to set up an analysis together with the universities of the needs of teachers from each of the universities, of which they have needs for teachers and which they don't; to design specific plans, at least now, with a duration of five years and then to continue, but it must be not only in the short term but also in the medium term; and to put in place together with the three public universities in Galicia a special plan for the course already 2016-2017 on the recovery of staff paintings, both of the PDI (student and researcher) and of the management and services staff, beginning this year with credit changes outside the funding plan that give some possibility of hiring teachers to universities, to continue with special plans in the following years. Of course, with ad hoc funding, funding outside the funding plan so that we can recover the lost, at least the lost, and maintain a quality teaching and research. And finally, I think it is absolutely necessary to respect that university autonomy is guaranteed in all its sectors, in all areas, but from now on in the management of human resources, which is not being done, maintaining the performances of the Business Council that at this time as much as its lordships seem impossible is the one that is ruling in universities, keeping the Business Council within its limits of legality, nothing more, without having more chance to alter university autonomy. I think this wouldn't fix the whole situation, but at least it would give a little air, a minimum possibility so that the Greek universities could continue to maintain the high level that characterizes them. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u283	Mrs Fernández Rodríguez, for the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u284	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. From the Joint Group we are going to support this motion with the different points that this initiative presents, because the quality and excellence of the Greek university is at stake. If you don't invest in a coherent way and if you have a planning thinking about the present and looking to the future, we are destroying this country, where there was a drastic cut in funding, which I assumed between 2010 and 2015 over 87 million, and where you go towards a model based on commodityism, as you alert, that will rule at least until 2020. And that's what we add to the loss of autonomy. The university is subject to very strict standards, because any part-time recruitment or replacement of teaching staff requires permission from the Board itself and from the Boards of Education and Fairy. He did it with medals when he spoke of the freezing of university fees, which are the lowest in Spain. It doesn't seem to remember that we have a lower standard of living than the state. But the Greek university system is among the worst funded in Europe and the Spanish state, with the worst rate of funding by teacher and student, with a loss of quality in higher education and with a precariousness of teaching, resenting the quality of public service due to the abolition of teachers and that there are subjects provided by non-specialist teachers, and in the lack of opportunities. The Greek universities have lost since the 2010-2011 course – these are calculated in 2015 – a total of 384 teachers, to stay in 5,258, when in 2010 they already had 5,987. The drop-down of teachers means that less and more masters are being given, diminishing the prestige previously achieved in the national concert and losing the indicators of excellence in the university of Galicia, and that subjects are no longer given in many cases by their own masters but by their teachers. This decreases academic quality. And apart from the hard cuts in the teacher's repositioning rate, it's now more than a poor view of some of the knowledge branches, as can be some of the Health Sciences Chairs of the University of Santiago de Compostela, which have been vacant since the retirement of the incumbents. And more difficulties also for research groups, both to continue with their projects and to contract for lack of budget. Despite the slight increases in the last two years, investment in R+D+i in the public accounts in Greece is today 15.5% below 2009. The investment reached a maximum in 2008, which was equivalent to 1.04 of the German GDP, to stay at 0.87 in 2012 and to be at 2005 levels. Say the state average is at 1.3. And it also failed to comply with the plan of research, innovation and growth of the year 2011-2015, which assumed as a general objective the convergence of the Greek R & D effort with the effort of the state as a whole, and far away from the objective of the European Union, which was by 2020 to reach 3% of GDP. It's true that many researchers, including teachers, have to look for the opportunity in other countries, even in other parts of the state. Obviously, there has to be greater funding, according to the view of the people representing the three universities, and to value much more also the ability to retain talent, the collaboration between the university and the company and the job placement itself of the graduates, which is fundamental and which is demanded by society. And I also pretended that the lack of renewal of the professor himself impedes the process of women's equalization at the university. After a sharp increase in proportion of incumbent teachers, this trend stops in 2008, when a 40% percentage was recorded, very similar to the year 2013, 41.5. The same applies to associates, from 31.7% to 32%. Retirement of pensions and casualties in teaching staff and recruiting new people to keep research teams alive is urgent. And we no longer speak of the accredited people themselves to enter the post of professors, or of retirements, or even of the professors, who right now and for the critical conditions at the economic level we can call "low-cost professor." The university professors do not reach the millionaires, who are the associate professors, who even perform more hours than they appear on the payroll. And it also refers to total-time interins, who charge as another teacher, plus those who work part-time with quite small wages. So from the Joint Group we support this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u285	For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u286	Thank you very much. Well, we just approved the Greek Statistical Plan, and although I'm only paying tribute to the Galego Statistical Institute, I'm going to give official data on the problem we have to deal with right now. In 2009, Galicia had 5,208 university professors, and in 2014 it had 4,912. So nearly 300 teachers disappeared from our universities, according to the public school. The average age of the university professor is almost 50 years old, and almost 38% of the university professor in Galicia exceeds that age. It's not only an age problem, it's also a problem with the coverage of the retirements produced. In the next five years they'll retire to Galicia about 3,000 university professors, and what are we going to do, do we have a plan of action? Researchers: in 2010 the University of Galicia had 4,083 researchers hired, and in 2014 about 3,100. So 983 researchers who disappeared from Galicia. In the public service there were 937 researchers, in 2014 there were 695, some 142 fewer. Total data: 1,125 missing researchers, who have stopped doing their job in our country, many to investigate outside. Expenditure in R & D+i: 2010, 0.93% of GDP; 2014, 0.89%. We are in the queue of all Europe investing in research on the basis of GDP. And in addition to something more serious: the promise made by the Government of Greece when it signed the University Financing Plan was to reach 1% of GDP in 2015. He didn't keep it, a promise he didn't keep. Expenditure on R & D+i per capita: year 2009, EUR 211 per capita in Galicia; year 2015, EUR 174. We lost 37 euros per inhabitant of investment in innovation and research. Number of innovative companies: year 2009, 32,105; year 2014 – latest IGE data – 28,871. We lost 1,134 innovative companies in our country. That's the X-ray, that's the official data of that Galego Institute of Statistics that I said so much to defend the Government of Galicia. What's the real scenario, that scenario that doesn't live the recovery that the government sells so much? Well, the real scenario is that as long as Europe follows the path against all the indicators that I have just said, boosting investments in R & D+i so as to withstand and raise in better conditions the economic crisis, we are subjecting our country to a devaluation not only wage, not only industrial, not only economic, but also research. So what's the future? Well, a complicated future if we don't put a remedy. That is why we understand that this initiative is necessary, rather than even necessary, that it is essential. For what? Because we have to value our primary sectors, because they have productive value and capacity. We have to get our agricultural sector to become a purely productive sector of transformation and industrialization, and for that we need investment in R & D+i. The same in the forest sector, which can have a fundamental development value if you really understand the wealth of our mountain. The wind and photovoltaic renewable energies, our country's great capacity, but we need research support. Business viability, if you have an effective financing tool like Igape, boosting the innovation of these companies, would certainly be a help, but Igape is absolutely paralyzed. Let's not talk about the boxes anymore, because it's a subject that's already too busy. Plans to rescue young migrant researchers, this would be a very helpful tool. Research groups like Ánggeles Alvariño, to whom you dedicated funding, it would also be essential to give continuity as they have experience and capacity. So there are measures that can be taken, there are rational measures, there are necessary measures. Today in this motion, the Socialist Group proposes some that we think are common sense. We, of course, will support – as I said – because we consider it necessary and, above all, because it is a matter of pure survival. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u287	I'm surprised there's this level of enthusiasm at this hour. By the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u288	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Concepción Burgo, I would like to inform you that the BNG Parliamentary Group will support this non-legislative proposal, which aims to urge the Board, firstly, to establish a short- and medium-term strategy to analyse the needs of the three universities and design with its planned collaboration for the recovery of research staff and more plans to recover staff from administration and services. This staff needed to ensure a quality teaching and research in the Greek university system, which according to the data of Junta in the evaluation and diagnosis of the Greek university system speaks that in the first three years of Feijóo – only in the first three – lost 654 professors and researchers. True, the administration and service staff were smaller, but it was also a serious cut. And we will also support "Setting in motion (...) a special plan for the 2016-2017 course for the recovery of PDI paintings", with funding, of course, outside the 2016-2020 funding plan. And continue with more special plans in the following courses to recover all the staff needed "to maintain a quality teaching and research." And we will also support "respect" – as it could not be otherwise – "university autonomy in all fields" and personnel management, both by the Business Council and by the Education Council." We will vote in favour because the BNG has always defended in this parliament seeking a sustainable future for our university, because we understand that knowledge, research and innovation are fundamental to the creation of wealth in our country, to enhance our productive fabric and our industry. This is what they understand across Europe when the crisis starts to invest a lot more in R & D+i. Germany now invests 3.1 per cent from 2 to almost 3% of GDP, Finland is currently investing in 3.1 per cent, the European average currently invests more than 2% of GDP, but the Spanish average is 1.4 per cent, and since then we have not reached 0.9% at this time in Galicia. This is also understood by the Rectors, who, when the new funding plan was discussed, demanded and asked for more funds for an economic plan. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour because the BNG Parliamentary Group has always advocated making a rigorous assessment of the plan that it completed, which was no less than the serious cut in terms of financial resources, 15% cut; in human resources, I say, more than 654 in the first three years of Feijóo, in resources for funding for research. When we discuss the 2016-2020 funding plan, the BNG proposed that sufficient and sustainable funding be envisaged for its structural part to respect the autonomy of universities and their capacity for decision-making and planning, particularly in the recruitment of staff to ensure quality and excellence. And we also proposed to increase the funding system for the years 2016-2020 starting from an budget this year, which was 1.01% of GDP, which was what the Government of Greece expected in the previous year. And unfortunately, only EUR 392 million is covered in this plan, when we look at 1.01, it would be more than 500 million. So we understand that the plan that is approved is insufficient and short for the system. We always argued that Galicia was interested in the three universities working together, acting with country vision and joint planning, and that they could guarantee with their funding that they would face up to the five years they had joined, on the map of the titles that were complete, in a reform of the university system that must be carried out, in the defence of the public university in Greece, as regards the recovery of teachers and as regards the recovery of students. But unfortunately all of this cannot be achieved because the funding plan of the Greek university system from 2016 to 2020 is not capable of dealing with this. Therefore, the BNG will defend a financing system that makes enough economic resources available to the Greek university system. In this case, by supporting an initiative that aims to establish special plans and special resources outside the Funding Plan to basically recover teachers and researchers and administration and services staff. The only way to ensure quality teaching and research that our country certainly deserves. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u289	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After an interesting debate last week about the interpellation that Mrs Burgo presented, today we have its substance – if you can say so – in a motion as a result of that interpellation. A at least surprising motion, Mrs. Burgo – let me tell you – because in the resolution that you present in your motion, at the third point, it distorts and contradicts absolutely what you present in points 1 and 2, which is nothing more than an interference by the Galician Council in competences and independence, in the autonomy of the Greek universities, and in this case what we could say about the Spanish universities. But as in the third, he once again asks for his autonomy, because we don't understand him very well. In any case, we do not consider this to be serious, it seems to us pure and harsh demagogy and an irresponsibility for which it is contempt for the status of universities, their competences and their autonomy, which is recognized by law; Mrs. Burgo, by law, something you want to divert here. But, look, if you're looking at Law 6/2013 of the Greek University System, on the front line of the law, it says textually: "Universities are public or private entities with their own legal personality endowed with autonomy by article 27.10 of the Spanish Constitution"; it doesn't seem to you. Article 1: "This law regulates the German university system with regard to university autonomy" – university autonomy again – "in the framework of the Spanish university system and the European Higher Education Area". But what you do here is a proposal for contempt of both the Constitution and the law, the laws, the national and the autonomy. And the skills of staff planning – as you know perfectly well, because you know it, you belong to the university, you know perfectly well that the planning and management of the human resources of universities are a competition peculiar to universities as public administrations that they are. Just as you want to delete the Trade Union Bureau now, or the Internal Committee on Squares, or the Council of Government of the Universities, which are the ones making decisions about the squares to be chaired, etc. But if you want to remove these skills from them, it's very good, just like we're trying to go back -- because we're talking about research and hired teachers and partners as they've deleted at the moment -- to their own endogamy, when the university already works with other criteria of advertising, objectivity, competition, equality, merit and capacity. Maybe you want it in absolute irresponsibility to suppress all that again. And, look, today he accused himself of confusing, the other day he accused the advisor of cheating and today he tried again to make everyone believe that the replacement rates are a matter for the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy. And I've got press excerpts here, just like you have. February 2010: "Zapatero announces a plan to reduce the number of public employees, will reduce 4% of staff expenditure and will only respond to one in ten public officials." It wasn't Mr. Rajoy, no. " Wage containment policy combined with a reduction in the number of employees which this year will mean a limitation of the replacement rate of the job offer to 10%." From 2011: "The staff replacement rate will continue at 10%", Zapatero dit, not Mariano Rajoy. The austerity plan – which is called – of the public administrations 2010-2012: reduction of an average of 5% of wages, freezing next year. I mean, this isn't all of us, Mrs. Burgo. So I don't think I know how dare you come here to blame her for not having her. The unions say, "Tolerable attitude of the executive." It will be the Executive who will come, but what he did was what he did. And you say, lose college squares. Yes, it was already planned in 2010, about 4,000 squares you had to lose. But it went wrong, because it was precisely the Government of the People's Party – yes, that is – what made the replenishment rate, which made it in 50%. By the way, after you have claimed this Education Council insistently at the sectoral negotiating tables, of which you were leaving; you are not the ones who ruled in other autonomous communities of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u292	Mrs. Burgo, nothing has ever happened in Galicia what you're saying here, never. Nearly a thousand squares in the years 2013, 2014 and 2015, a thousand PDI – yes, of PDI – at a time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u293	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u294	...–Filled, Mr President—in which so many researchers have never been established in the Greek university system, never, Mrs Burgo. And all this for a ratio – which I know you don't like – that's the lowest in Europe, or comparable to France, that's 21, or with the United Kingdom with 17, or with Finland with 13.8. I don't care, you throw away everything you want. And I was talking about eleven years. Of course it is, eleven years old, and 11,000 less students. That's how demography is, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u295	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u296	Finally, Mr President, saying that the Board will play its part, and we will all be observers that it is, so that it will continue to promote the quality implementation of its own management systems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u297	End it, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u298	...at the university to respond to equal opportunities, quality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u299	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u300	...and to continue serving Galicia's socio-productive tissue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u301	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u302	...that's what he's for.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u303	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u305	Thank you very much. Motion author group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, firstly, to all groups – to the Joint Group, BNG and AGE – for supporting this motion. Mr. Farinas, I have to tell you that, really, you have fulfilled all the expectations I had about your intervention, all of them: it can't be more demagogic, you can't prove any more ignorance of the university. So, I think if you're still here as an education spokesman in the legislation that comes, knowing a little more the university would be good. Look, Mr. Farinas, the problem is not, if it is, the autonomy of universities, they can have a lot, but you know what's going on? They know what squares they need, but they don't have any money. Do you know what a public university is? A university funded with public money, because it turns out that a public university is providing a public service that is paid with money from everyone. And, of course, it's very good that you say that when you were the ones who altered the autonomy of universities, even saying that squares had to be done or not, whether you came here to defend autonomy, but, yes, not giving money. They hire whoever they want, with what? If you're already paying 200 euros per teacher. What do you want me to hire? What they have to do is give the money that universities deserve. You know perfectly well that's what my motion says. You want to do another absolutely wrong interpretation, see if universities believe it. I am convinced, Mr. Farinas, that today the professor, the student and the staff of services at the universities will sleep much more quietly, because it turns out that their perception from day to day, their perception of giving twice as much credit as they should, the perception of the Dean of Medicine that their situation is dramatic because they have no professor, the situation of Maxister and Philosophy when teachers are missing is wrong, they are making it up, that doesn't happen in this university, because it turns out that the People's Party does everything it has to do to have an impressive university, the best in the world. There's no... students sin in college because they want to, because they're like that, because they're young, not because they're missing a teacher. Look, Mr. Farinas, things have to be taken more seriously than you take them and the People's Party takes them. In the meantime, you'll continue to bet on what you've always waged, so you want, so it's in your ideology: for an economic model based on low wages, in unskilled staff, in managed staff. That's what you want, not an R & D-based economic model, based on innovation; you want it based only on low wages. And for that, there are other countries that do it much better than you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the execution by the Government of Galicia of all the actions necessary to promote, facilitate and encourage the demographic recovery of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u308	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mrs. Soneira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u309	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I was going to start differently, but as a reference to this debate we have just had, I have a couple of friends working at the University of Santiago, who are biologists – one of them happens to be possibly the greatest authority in the world in bivalves – and they are doing research work for Denmark, because one of them told me, with tears, about a couple of years ago, when the cut was on the ground, that it was the first time as a teacher who had no resources, there were no research scholarships, and that he could not pass on his knowledge and experience to his students. That has to do with demography. Because demography is not exclusively – as it seems to be interpreted – a problem of social affairs, it is not. Social affairs are very important, especially with the kind of demography we have in the country now. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to give you figures, we gave them the other day in the debate of the interpellation, and given the data that has been given today with regard to the professor at the university, or those that were given the other day, that everybody comes, we're all basically using the same source, the IGE, perhaps the cut we had to apply, is to close the IGE. Because, one of two: or very poorly expressed, or very badly read by the Government, because what is published and hung on the IGE page, with access to all mankind, turns out that that's not true. And we Members are so clumsy, especially those of the opposition, that we do not know how to interpret them. So we modestly propose a series of measures that we believe can help solve the problem. And those measures have to be prolonged over time and have to have resources. There is one example: the Republic of Ireland; I only ask them to study it, to look at it as a small country that was starting from a population density like Galicia has won in recent years about one and a half million inhabitants. And that is why we propose in the first of the proposals: 'Let social aid reach the mid-level of the European Union by 2020'. Nor is it too much to ask, and we're not asking them for tomorrow, we're talking about starting a path that has to go further and for a long time. Direct aids to permanent and periodic births. That's one of the issues, not the only one, where Ireland's success was rooted. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not enough to drop a percentage, one point, two points, in the IRPF, because – even the counselor himself recognized it – no one has a child because they lower a couple of points in the IRPF. You know that. That's very good in the election year... Home! Yes, but look, it's just that it's easy for him: in the election year we lowered him down, as we did with corporate taxes and other taxes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But today it turns out that the minister has just said that by next year we are going to raise the corporate tax again because we have to cover EUR 6 billion in deficit. In the electoral year we lowered them and in the non-electoral year we raised them. If it's a serious country, tell me, tell me! Do you understand? When we ask him to "return the talent," we're talking about our young people, some of them participating in leading research projects in the world. We're talking about regaining talent. It has to do with what's just been debated here. "The projects, the encouragement of business projects linked to our historical emigration." The Republic of Ireland has also done programmes and policies in that sense, because we are very similar to that. Look, gentlemen, everybody here is convinced that our historical emigration is all poor, miserable and lives under a bridge in Avellaneda, Argentina, for setting a case. Do you know that in our historic emigration are some of the most important fortunes in the world? Has the Greek Government made any attempt, which is not that thing that happens to sell milk to Cuba in dust, to convince, encourage, encourage a part of that capital to invest in our country, in proximity, even selfishly because of the problems in the countries where they are settled? Well, it looks like a lot of effort hasn't been made, eh! because the results aren't seen. And "legislative amendments", ladies. Setting up a company in rural areas is an impossible task. Services, public infrastructures, measures such as punishing the production of clean energy in rural areas – where carrying traditional and classic energy infrastructures means an added cost that is not available to entrepreneurs who have at their disposal a business park next to a large city – and communications... we have said here that there are rural polygons where entrepreneurs have less than one mega to communicate. Do you really believe that anyone can live in rural areas or in certain areas of our country with these technical conditions? We're not talking only about social issues, but also about them. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that families with older children or young children will settle in certain areas of our territory where when the vacations arrive now, for example, if they're going to close their office, because they don't replace their professionals, and they're going to another one that keeps them open at best 10 or 12 kilometers, and in July is, those who are here are going to 12 kilometers, and in August they open the office here, they close the one there, and those from there come here 12 kilometers, or worse, that doesn't exist? Who takes care of the older ones? Who can encourage children in rural areas? Some parents have reported that their children in school transport spend up to six hours to get an education on a bus. The kids in the cities don't get that, and yet we're on regression even in the cities of the interior. It's not just a social problem. But you ask yourself: questions as often as I would tell you, you used to collect your pension next to your house is no longer possible, because the banks have cut, and now there are people who even have the power of an old man to pay your pension. And so they manipulate themselves and they do things. How can you live in rural areas in those conditions? That's why we make the distinction: that all these measures are encouraged even more when they live in those areas. And then, do you really believe that someone can live and create families and have children in the conditions in which our primary sector is? Look, every time you close a dairy farm in Galicia, we're closing down the possibility that there are fewer vets, that there are no workshops for the maintenance of the machinery on that farm, that there are no service companies, that there are no suppliers of a lot of products of all kinds. So it's a tremendous chain. When we say we have to concentrate a lot and the one who produces 100,000 kilos we're going to put together fifteen and there's only one that produces a barbarity. Yes, but on the way to a service company that had at least three or four veterinarians with a checkpoint, because it concentrates. And maybe the equipment and all the inputs you need are going in another direction and you're buying out, because there'll only be companies out with the ability to supply that volume. It's not just a social problem, it's not, and it's not a problem that gets solved in two days in an election campaign. It is a fundamental problem of the country and it has to be persistent in time and with resources in all budgets, government who governs. If they want it, well, and if they don't, what we're going to do! And, for example, issues such as urbanism. How are you going to ask someone in a village who inherits the traditional housing, with a lot of square meters and wants to rehabilitate it, to apply the same legislation as someone who buys a 60 or 80 square meters apartment in a city? That's impossible. And above it: take the electric line, make the sewers, make sure all the services. Man, it doesn't seem reasonable, does it? It seems we have to legislate so that this can be solved. Or the pro-individual inheritances; I don't get tired of repeating this problem. Or, for example, that everyone thinks that latifundas are all of Andalusia or Extreme. You're lying! Spain's largest latifundas are here in this country: the neighboring mountains in common hand, shots, habitat of jabaris – permanent problems and conflicts – and periodically set on fire. And you know what it costs us in the budgets of the Galician Union. As Mr. Pablo García said to my companion, we'd probably save a lot of money from the fires out there. And the last one: "All those that involve the rooting of families in rural municipalities." Because look, ladies and gentlemen, I've already said it in the interpellation: this is not just a matter of -- to see how I say it finely -- to put on it. No, that's not it. It's that in countries that increase population is about immigration, because there's an economy that allows families to come to work where the economy goes well. It's a historical constant. And we, for the moment, don't have those conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u310	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u311	...because there are no immigrants who want to live among us. For something it will be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u313	Thank you, President. The wealth of a country is proportional to its active population, said French Demograph Gérard François Dumont the other day on the occasion of the meeting of the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges. I give the fact that all of us here share this criterion. Despite data from the IGE itself, these show a negative reality if we meet Mr. Dumont's criteria: According to the IGE, in 2015 a total of 652,477 residents in Galicia received social security contributions; that is, one in four Galicians is a pensioner. The population has been active in Galicia, which has not reached 1.3 million, is the lowest since 2006. And the rate of activity resulting from the sum of the occupied population and unemployment does not reach 54%, the second lowest in the state after Asturias. And the situation doesn't change for the better, but the opposite. As for the year, this year 2016, Galicia lost 14,598 inhabitants, a larger number than the previous year for the same period. In 2015, 90,675 people emigrated, 46,34 % between 30 and 54 years of age, i.e. 46,34 of the active population. Many of these emigrants are women of childbearing potential, a data that affects other types of indicators: a lower unemployment rate, a higher ageing rate and a lower birth rate. And 38.5% of emigrants, of people emigrants, correspond to people of high educational level. The conclusion is that the birth rate is clearly linked to the loss of active population and low birth rate. Both phenomena prevent enough generational restoration to ensure the pension system and society of well-being. It is the fish that bites the tail: the lack of a future job that prevents a future road project leads to emigration, with the consequent flight of talents and women of fertile age, the loss of active population and the aging and desertification of the country. We already have a higher mortality rate than the birth rate. As much as they call us alarmists and catastropheists, the future of this country is miserable. This landscape of death, old age and desolation occupied by our country is not resolved, ladies and gentlemen, in the short term, with remedies, with short-term policies, baby check-type, tax discounts, child care bonds... What is needed, what we need – so we are going to vote for this motion – are measures to make Galicia an attractive place for the creation of companies and for those that exist not to go; for example, a Greek electric tariff would be a great measure; also, quality employment with guarantees, youth employment, recovery and value of our primary sector, rural investment, etc., etc. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u314	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u315	Thank you, President. Well, actually, the demographic situation in Galicia is serious. For the first time, people over 85 years of age are older than children under 4 years of age, and so they make it clear what's going to happen in the future: an inverted pyramid, fruit of various factors. Indeed, the birth rate decreases, immigration decreases, emigration increases, and, therefore, this results in a decline in population and an increase in the average age of this population. And yet nothing is done in this sense. I have to remember here that the criticism that this group made during the processing of the Demography Plan was precisely, firstly, because it did not have specific measures applicable and, secondly, because it did not have budget. We can't expect more children to be born when we practice multimillionaire cuts in the budgets of the Galician Union. And in the case of social services, of all those social issues parties, in recent years a billion euros have been diverted, and therefore this is incompatible with the birth of more children and children and that people stay in Galicia. Against what Mr Feijóo pointed out in the past full, the balance of emigration is negative, i.e. fewer people are already coming from the people who are going; in particular, without entering into that debate that was the other day of figures, around 1,700 difference balance. We're talking about that around 15,000 people go and get a lot less, and so obviously with this progression -- it's high, low -- what's to expect is a depopulation, because, in addition, the broader age group of people who go is that between 20 and 39 years old. It doesn't need to be a wise man or a wise man to know that those who leave are, first, the ones who should be paying off for the current pensions of the older and older and also those who are in an age where it's more favourable than having children and children. And, therefore, the problem is double and it increases. Those who are left, in addition, suffer from job insecurity, preventing them from considering any kind of vital project. 13% of the workers are poor in our country, and yet the People's Party has eliminated 51% of the budgets relating to job creation in our country. Of the unemployment figures in the last quarter, we can extract that the low jobs that are being created are precarious; only 6.5 % of the contracts signed are undefined contracts, because the fixed ones no longer exist. When we talk about the impact of the two labour reforms, we talk about this; when we talk about the elimination of productive sectors, of primary sectors, of industry in our country, we talk about this; and what we have left is tertiary sector and precarious work; and the rest of the people who don't have work at present, 51% no longer have any kind of benefit, and, of course, there are no births, that this is going to be spicy and that people continue to emigrate. And it's also normal to increase in these circumstances the demands of social integration income and other public aid. Of course, we have to give public aid, because there are situations of real emergency in our country, more than 600,000 people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. But attention to emergency, minimum coverage of basic needs, can't be the only policy of a government, at least if you want to solve -- or try -- this problem. We don't want to become a country where we can't work, live on our work, and have to be resorting to checks and aids forever, which seems to be the model of the People's Party. We want to be subject to law, work in our country, produce in our country and, of course, contribute to the wealth of the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks. In these conditions, it's normal for birth to diminish. There were already problems of demography before the start of the stafa crisis. Obviously, with budget cuts, it's normal for these problems to increase. Child poverty has increased in children under 16 by 46% – and these are data from the Galician Economic and Social Council, not data from AGE – and 63% in young people aged 16-24. Of course, these are not conditions to have and form a family, because for that we must be able to sustain it. We agree with some of the measures proposed, we disagree with others, but we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, because we believe that there is a need for serious debate, and the reality is that it would practically be a government programme – productive sectors, public banking, public sectors, social services – and virtually an amendment to all the policies that the People's Party has so far practised. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u317	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start by linking my speech with Mrs Solla's last words, because there are some of the measures included in this Socialist Group motion that deserve nuances, we believe that there are also missing measures, but, in any case, this motion is intended to address a problem of first order that we have as a country: the demographic crisis, in view of the lack of a strategy to deal with this demographic crisis by the People's Party. That is why I announce the positive vote on this motion by the Nationalist Block of Wales. Over the past few weeks, we have seen new data alerting us to the dimension of this very serious demographic crisis that Galicia is experiencing, a demographic crisis that is already acquiring the dimension of a real population tragedy. On the one hand, we know that Galicia has lost its inhabitants again. We closed 2015 with 13,988 inhabitants less, i.e., the same – so we noticed the importance of the figures – that if a municipality such as The Valdeorras Boat disappeared from a pen, and Galicia was the community with a more negative crop balance – 12,369 people died more than they were born. And on the other hand, we also know the 2015 immigration statistics published by INE. According to INE, in 2015 they marched from Galicia 24,935 people, increased immigration to other autonomous communities as well as to other states, data that strongly deny the reversed reality that Mr. Feijóo presents to us so many times – the last time, without going further, in the previous control session, in the reply to our spokesperson – and also deny the speech that Galicia is emerging from the crisis before and with more force than anyone else. It's true, as the Government of the Union and the People's Party so often argue, that Galicia's demographic problem is not new, it's true. In the middle of the 19th century, Galicia had the highest population density throughout the Spanish state and the Greek population represented 11.5% of the total state. In 1950 this percentage was already down to 9.26, and today we're just 5.8%. In just over a century and a half, our relative weight has been reduced by more than half. We believe that there is no more illustrative evidence of how the conformation of the modern Spanish state as a unitary and centralist state which has condemned our dependence has condemned our country to its decline. But far from correcting yourself, Signors of the People's Party, the problem in the last seven years has been accentuated, to the point of endangering the country's own viability. Since 2008, the percentage of population potentially dependent on age has only grown, and for every 160 Greeks close to retirement, there are only 100 young people and girls of age who enter the labour market. We have an aging country, which implies, among other things, important social spending, and, in the meantime, the efforts we make to educate and prepare youth do not yield in the country, because the policies that are being practiced expel our young people out. Look at what a professor of geographic analysis said these days: "Galiza lacks demographic policy, and that is a failure. We should have a very clear employment and demographic policy. There must be public spending on active employment policies, concrete actions and decisions in those regions in the worst situation, because in this country what is happening is serious; it is a disaster, particularly in the interior; indoor Galicia is becoming the great loser". In short, we have to do everything that this government is not doing, because the demographic problem is not solved solely by fiscal incentives. The demographic problem has to do with precariousness, youth unemployment, difficulties in reconciling work and family life. The depopulation of inner Galicia has to do with its economic desertification, with the dismantling of services in rural areas. That's why the demographic problem is solved by defending Galicia's right to have its own economic base, by betting on stable and quality employment, by providing a future perspective for our girls and boys and encouraging the return of those who had to leave. And it will also be resolved by developing social services and policies to support families and by actually betting on equality and reconciliation. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u318	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, this is a serious debate, because the demographic problem in Galicia is one of the main problems we have right now, but it is also one of the main problems we are going to have in the future. But I would like to clarify, first, three questions. First of all, that this is not a new problem, this is a problem that comes from far away, we have accumulated three decades of negative vegetative balances. Secondly, it is not an exclusive problem of Galicia; it is a structural problem which already affects many European regions. Thirdly, that there are no immediate or magical solutions; we need a stable demographic policy, with continuity in time. Having this clear, the Galician Union is aware of the demographic situation of Galicia and the need to develop a cross-sectional strategy that has continuity over time. And it's been on the agenda of the Galician Council for years, when other parliamentary groups adopted the speech on the demographic problem a short time ago. In 2013, the Plan for Population Dynamics 2013-2016 horizon 2020 was launched, and, in addition, in the same year, the Strategy for the early prevention and detection of dependency was approved, bearing in mind that population aging is one of the main consequences of demographic change. In 2014, the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia was approved, which addresses the consequences of demographic change as a factor to be taken into account in the analysis of poverty and social exclusion. In 2015 the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 was approved, which establishes a comprehensive package of specific measures to combat the problem of demography in our community. Also, in 2015, Junta created a general direction with specific competences for demographic dynamisation that launched a birth support program. A programme that has, among other measures: the good conciliation with EUR 3.4 million – because it is said here that it has no budget – the good rural care that has 3 million euros, the welcome card that has 18 million euros – by the way, nearly 7,000 applications already submitted – and, in addition, there are fiscal measures such as: it has increased the deduction for birth or adoption of children, from EUR 300 to 360 euros for the first child, from EUR 1,200 per second child, and 2,400 per third child; it has doubled the limit of child care deduction, from EUR 200 to 400 or 600 if they have two children or more; for the single payment for children under 3 years, for persons not obliged to submit the income statement, EUR 3 million and, in addition, it is a comprehensive loan. To facilitate detailed knowledge of the demographic reality of Galicia we have the Observatory for Demographic Dynamics of Galicia which, in addition to studying the demographic reality of our community, is to advise the public administrations of Galicia to include the demographic perspective in the design and development of their policies. In addition to all this, Galicia has a European national agenda. At European level we are within the network of regions affected by demographic change where a joint response is being proposed and, at the state level, Galicia is leading the Regional Forum with Demographic Challenges and is a strategy for demographic change at the state level. So the demographic problem of our community is not a new problem, it's a problem that has been addressed for years since the Galician Union, which since 2013 has started, along with the Strategic Plan for Demographic Dynamication, a package of measures, and which must of course put in place measures that have continuity over time. And we do not consider the Socialist Parliamentary Group's initiative to address a question and expand what the Galician Union is doing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u320	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. To thank the opposition groups who are going to vote in favour of our initiative and we recognize that things are missing here, of course, because – I think some of the opposition partners have said so – really would have to make an amendment to all the policies of the Union... and Mrs. Rodríguez Arias went out to give us the reason because, for example, did you know who emigrated all over the countryside now...? Historically men emigrated, women remained; women now emigrated. No family wants their daughters to live in the conditions – especially mothers – that they have lived or lived in, especially with our production model based practically on milk production, which means 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and girls leave. And besides -- I'm going to tell you -- they used to study boys, not now, they're them, and that's a problem we're not solving, because you're right Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, this isn't a new problem. But it turns out that the bad government bipartisan has been three and a half years, so if this is a problem for at least three decades, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, and the bad ones we only rule three and a half years, because here someone will be responsible for the situation we are living today, recognizing that it's not an easy situation. And even you say – do what you say – that we have negative balances for almost three decades. Mr. President of the Union – I don't know whether it was the last plenary session or whether it was the previous one and I think it was a question by Mr. Jorquera – because I was discussing the biggest one, he said it wasn't true, that we had a positive balance. I mean, with the data to see if they agree because the president always interprets the IGE data that must be for geniuses and I don't give that level – I also have to recognize it – Because, you see, we for a long time had positive balances between those who went out and those who came in because we received passive emigration classes; neither today nor that. We've had almost four years of net negative balances. And look, the reality is that today we have nearly 75,000 members less members of Social Security than when Mr Feijó went in. And the only positive evidence they have is that of registered unemployment, why would it be? Because people go away and don't join the Inem. Because, look, we have 68,200 less assets and we have 121,100 less busy, data from the IGE, maybe they're wrong or maybe this honourable Member didn't know how to interpret them, that everything is possible. So now comes the last question – finished, Mr President –. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, you've made us a storyteller of how much and how well things are done, how much help there is. People, come on, I don't know why she has no children anymore and I don't know why she doesn't stay in her places. And, I say, how is it possible that with so many good policies and so well-equipped economically the phenomenon is growing exponentially? Nothing else, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the fight against forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u323	There is an amendment tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group. To formulate the motion you have the word of Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u324	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Just like the previous motion we were talking about a serious structural problem affecting our country, I humbly believe that this motion, referring to forest fires, also addresses a problem and, at the same time, serious structural consequences affecting our country. If I may share a concern with you, I have been very concerned about the last plenary session of this Parliament in which the Rural Media Adviser has strongly stated that in Galicia no changes were taking place in the typology or parameters for developing forest fires in our country. And, frankly, I believe – not to mention anyone – that to make an assertion of that silence when there are numerous studies, not the Nationalist Block Galego, but of different experts in the subject matter and of different universities that make this change manifest in the typology of forest fires, so frankly, it seems to me to be a fear. First of all, I'm going to give some figures so nobody can interpret anything strange. The largest number of hectares burned in the following years by order: 1978, 1981, 1985, 1989 and 2006 – in 2006 a lot. The largest number of fires occurred in 1995 with more than 15,000 fires only in that year. However, if historical series are analyzed, we can see how in Galicia there was a clear typology, a clear pattern of forest fires, which were forest fires primarily linked to the rural environment, essentially linked to the mountain itself and, since September 2005, but essentially from 2006 onwards, it began to consolidate – not say that it had begun to occur but if it was to consolidate – a new type of forest fires based on its spatial distribution, as three university professors demonstrate in a study conducted by the University of Santiago in collaboration with Columbia University. In case you're interested in one of them, it's called the 2006 Fire Campaign in Galicia, an analysis of the change in the spatial distribution of the fire activity. In this context, it is particularly worrying that we have a Government of Galicia, an Administration responsible for protecting this country from forest fires that not only dismantles prevention policies, dismantles the extinction device with respect to the management and action unit. But it's particularly worrying that we have a Rural Media Council that also dismantles all the elements that existed for the investigation of the causes and detonators of forest fires. Because if there is one element that has been key to reducing the number of forest fires in our country – besides deterrence, in addition to awareness, in addition to other elements – it has been to investigate on the ground, especially in those places where fires occur most frequently, which are the specific causes, social conflicts, the elements behind each of these fires to address them. And I and my parliamentary group are deeply concerned and concerned because in recent years – especially in recent years, the most recent – is being appreciated – and here I see that there are several Members of Ourense – we are seeing how this change of typology that in 2006 has concentrated fundamentally on the Atlantic axis – and in particular in the southern area of the Atlantic axis between Santiago de Compostela and Vigo, we are seeing how in Ourense there is a phenomenon that consists of almost every day there are ten-hundred forest fires occurring around the city and in the city's neighbouring municipalities. And that, with the particularity of the fires that occur around cities, it's the ones that cost us most to the Greeks and to the Greeks because it's practically essential to use air resources to confront them. Mr. Balsairo, you know a lot about the navy and I don't discuss it, but I insist, here are several Members and Members of Ourense and I'm sure none of the groups will contradict me if I loudly say that there were many days of last summer in which Ourense looked like Vietnam. Ourense looked like Vietnam by the number of air vehicles we had on top of our city trying to extinguish fires that once they were able to extinguish, within half an hour or three quarters of an hour, there was another one at 200 meters, three kilometers or a very small distance. And this, in addition, with the particularity, Mr. Balsairo, of which the Board dismantled two fundamental instruments that it had to address, at least so that we could know why this is happening: one, the information and research brigades of forest fires that were formed by forest agents who were relegated or downloaded from all the other functions that the forest agents have and had as their sole task to go there at the moment in situ to do all the investigations. And by the way, it's very successful because we need to know that forest agents – and here there are many rural mayors too – know that in most cases you have the complicity of the neighbors and the rural neighbours. And what if someone can go and talk to their neighbors and their neighbors and ask them, "Who happened here that doesn't usually come?", "What car did you see?", "What?", it's the forest agent. And this is absolutely dismantled, there are no forest fire intelligence and research brigades. And another element that you have dismantled – yes, and then sign agreements with the Ministry of Defence that we have paid you 600,000 euros to get us drones and come on horseback through the mountains of our country – have dismantled something far more important to act on the ground, both from the point of view of deterrence, prevention, as of arrest and making available to the incendiaries, such as the permanent collaboration between the forest fire fighting device with Seprona, with the agents who are on the ground every day and not with those military who come with those uniforms so clean that they certainly walk with them just as clean after 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000 forest fires in our country. So today we bring a motion that touches on several points: one, the need for prevention, but not prevention in August or July, but prevention from the point of view of preventive infrastructures, but also a forest policy for the prevention of forest fires. With regard to the device, we propose two things: that the whole of the device is hired, of course, before the maximum risk period of forest fires commences – today the whole of the device is not contracted, nor even 70% of the device, probably not even 60% of the device – that they meet at once their word and return all vacant squares in the Forest Fire Defense Service; that the unit of the device is maintained avoiding municipal brigades for the extinction of fires. Here are many mayors and I would like to say that, now that this legislation is over, they tell me with their hands in their heart if you do not consider that it is not up to the counties to put out forest fires, that the municipalities have to make an agreement with the board of Galicia and provide 25% of what the brigade costs, is it not on the part of the councils to finance the board of Galicia? Shouldn't Galician Union deal with the extinction of forest fires and, if any, contribute to the municipalities by making agreements – but in February, not in July – to make prevention by the municipalities that this is indeed committed by the municipalities? And finally, that the device should be maintained in the public sphere and that all the instruments we have in the public field should be used to shorten forest fires. And, too, I have premeditated that verb: strengthening the research brigades, although it would actually have to be able to return the information brigades because in practice they don't exist. I believe that this is a very modest initiative and I hope that at this last stage of my plenary as a Member of Parliament we will be able to reach an agreement that I think would be very relevant for moving to the Greeks and to the Greeks that, too, on such a central issue for this country we are able to reach agreements so that there is a coherent policy to fight forest fires regardless of who governs them. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u325	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u326	Thank you, President. We have repeatedly denounced in this House, throughout this final legislation, the situation of the working conditions of the Forest Fire Prevention and Combating Service. A service that, today, continues to have fully fragmented and increasingly privatized and less professionalized devices with no single command that goes to the detriment of its effectiveness. The allegations about the lack of human resources in the fight against fires were tonic in the multiple forest fires that Galicia destroyed during 2015: lack of PPE necessary to deal with fires, poor state of the motorcycles, precarious working conditions of the forest brigades with excessive days, obsolete machinery, heat strokes, etc. The Professional Association of Forest Firefighters continues to denounce in the media the privatization, fragmentation, deprofessionalization and precariousization of the device established by the Rural Media Council for this summer. They claim that fragmentation involves a decrease in efficiency in the face of a forest fire due to organizational difficulty and demand that the device be once again unique and public under subscription to the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service in Galicia. They demand the recovery of the heli-transport brigades that are privatized, because their privatization does not make any better, and fragmentes the service. It also denounces the precariousness of the service and the different working, wage and recruitment conditions among workers solely in relation to their employment unit: Seaga, Administration, private company... two-thirds of the workers have temporary contracts of 3 and 9 months, while half are interim. The selection processes of institutions and companies are different and arbitrary, so there is no uniformity in merit, experience and evidence required, which in addition to discrimination poses a serious risk to the lives of the selected people and the brigades they work with. So it makes it essential to recognise the professional category of professional firefighters who can act as an authority in a forest fire situation, while ensuring greater effectiveness in their functions and access to the specific training needed. The logging of the forest fires that Galicia suffers has a direct relationship with the abandonment of rural areas, so fire-fighting policy is useless if we don't count on this factor. The Public Prosecutor's Annual Memory highlights the proliferation of fires in the peri-urban borders, increasing the risk to population in contrast to the lack of emergency plans that include self-protection against the high risk of forest fires in Galicia. This is what the Attorney-General himself says for so much that the People's Party denies reality. Ourense Environment Attorney Carmen Eiró confirms that fires are becoming more and more intense in that they easily exceed the efforts of extinction services and, given the priority of people's security, extinction is relegated to evacuation plans, which results in a delay in the fire attack in the most decisive hours. The prosecutor points out that the lack of prevention is a fundamental problem that is related to the increase in large-scale and uncontrolled fires. In Ourense, Batefogo, a social initiative launched in Manzaneda to combat forest fires, aims ultimately to reverse the dynamics of abandonment of rural areas by basing its actions on issues such as the shared management of the territory, the construction of productive initiatives and services linked to sustainability that give jobs in rural areas and make populations, the placing in value of traditional practices and knowledge, and cultural and heritage recognition. Because only the recovery of rural areas, only the recovery of agricultural activity can stop this firecracker. To consider that the problem of fires in Galicia is a problem of pyromans is to simplify the problem and consider that we have the highest rate of pyromans in the world. It is true that Galicia has a mental health system and social assistance in all respects lacking to cope with psychosocial problems which, according to experts, are at the root of the pyromanian conduct. However, Galicia also lacks a Fire Prevention and Extinction Service capable of performing such a function due to lack of human personnel, the precariousness of working conditions, the lack of coordination and the lack of adequate material. But the proliferation and impact are greater on forest fires due to the abandonment of the mountain and the depopulation of rural areas. We will support this motion by the BNG to which we have tabled, however, an amendment which, whether accepted or not, we will vote in favour of the initiative because there is something that really alarms me and, in addition, that I take as a personal complaint: one, that all personnel facing a fire have the PPE and all the means necessary to deal with the fire without risking their lives, and, on the other hand, that Seaga's staff apply the V collective agreement because it is an indecency to the labour situation in which the Board maintains Seaga's staff and therefore the need for a multiannual plan with schedule and budget to devote themselves to the prevention of forest fires. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u327	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u328	Good afternoon. Well, in what might be the last ordinary plenary session of this legislature a debate about fires... the truth is I'm sorry but I'm not going to be very original because there's nothing to change our position. And we, in this as in other pending challenges in this country, believe that we must combine short-term measures with medium- and long-term measures, a question where this Government is not an expert in improvisation and short-term advertising measures, but it is not a specialist in dealing with structural issues to give our rural future in this case. Faced with short-term measures based on the constant increase in spending on extinctions, what this country needs is a medium- and long-term policy using the collective intelligence in the country. A future that should pass by defining a coordinated forest policy, with agricultural policy integrated into a rural model that sets and governs the population, and, in turn, also integrated into a different country model and in the construction of that model they should participate much more than the forest sector, they should participate biologists, economists, agronomists, forests, too; but even sociologists, etc. And something like that would have been done in the elaboration of a dictatorship by the Greek Parliament in 1987 that would map a 30-40-year-old forestry policy with an advanced model, based on knowledge and applying policies focused on diversity in production, multifunctionality, added value and employment. It's obvious – and I don't find anything – when I say most of them have failed, just as the 1992 Forest Plan has been breached. It's impossible to say that good forest policies are made and, therefore, it's also against fires when neither the plans you approve of are met. What have you done to rule most of these years in democracy? For focusing policy on extinction, forest policy on repopulation with short-term species aimed at achieving rapid private profitability but not profitability for a country, the absence of a true forest extension – one of the commitments of the 1992 Forest Plan – the absence of an efficient relationship between research and counselling and production. You've been betting on a complex extinction device that makes it difficult to operate and without any technical justification, none. We haven't heard any technical justification here for not opting for a more professional, stable firefighting device, etc. They allowed the reforestation of agricultural land, they reduced the useful agricultural surface, they did not encourage the leafy and caducifolious species, on the contrary, they reduced and worsened quality, continued the vertiginous rhythm of abandonment and aging of rural. What has been done to improve the structure of the joint property or management in the mountain property? What was the Sofor balance, Mr. Balsairo? What balance can you present in the joint management policy of the forest surface? Etc. That certainly has to do with the fires, too, and it has to do with the fires, too, the business. It is not innocent that more and more of the budgets of the Conseilerie do Medio Rural are spent, which is 1 out of every 3 euros of its budget to fight fires. He's not innocent, there are many companies doing business with the fire, with the privatization of the fight against the fire. And you can already see and you could already take advantage of this last plenary session to inform who is being investigated in Santiago's No. 3 Instruction Court for hiring helicopters to Inaer and the Heliported Brigades of Natutechnia founded by Mr. Carlos del Álamo. Could you say why these people are being investigated for contracts of more than 68 million euros? I think, too, behind the privatisation policy of the People's Party is, once again, the business. So we bet on politics and the medium and long term. And speaking of the device, it is clear that there is no justification for doing what you are doing, for example – as seen in the last plenary – with Seaga professionals. They're demanding decent working conditions when we know there's work for them to do, when we know they're ready to work 3 months and they could work 6 or 9 because there's work. And in fact, you've bided millions of euros for private companies to do prevention jobs and don't give them to these workers because they're making their life impossible for them to give up. Because you don't want to consolidate the work of these people, you don't want to consolidate the rights of workers, you prefer precarious workers and in conditions where they can't demand even labor rights. That's what they've done with Seaga, denying all the workers who are still in Seaga, resisting some sort of mobbing that this Joint Government is doing to get them to quit and go and eliminate the problem of having to say here that they don't want to count on a public and professional fire fighting device. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u329	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u330	Thank you, President. Well, since it came out by Mrs. Peace and we all looked back, we'd probably look back at any of us four years ago, because it would be a little distance from what we were saying today. It's more, but if we go through the interventions, if we go to the House archive twenty-five years ago, because it wouldn't probably be too far, either. And, therefore, as far as I am concerned and also taking into account and talking about the balance of the last plenary, the point is that we have been spending – since I am a Member and since all of us here are Members – 450 million in extinguishing the fire in these four years. And the situation is what we have, and the president himself acknowledged the other day, in a press round, that could actually come a complicated year, and therefore that somehow we were at the expense of how it had come this year. I mean, we've been doing the same thing for thirty years, we've been doing the same thing for four years, spending that money, and we're depending on how summer comes, and depending on that maybe it's the results. Indeed, I won't repeat. Of course we are going to approve the initiative, and also because we agree, we have continued to coincide these four years. Therefore, as Mr. Sánchez, since being original here today is impossible, on a subject beyond which we have so much debate and where each of us has also fixed his position so clearly. Three things that came out here. In fact, we have certain areas where we have a fire activity that is occurring periodically; we have – it is more – parishes of high fire activity, studied and that in some way we all know what they are, and yet the advisor cannot say here a single specific measure, or a single specific measure that would take place in an area of special fire activity or in a parish of special fire activity. I mean, we have them marked, we have them delimited, we know where it burns repeatedly, but we don't do anything all year round to keep it from burning back, and this is happening systematically every year. And that's why, when I told the lady councillor, she twisted my words by saying that in the districts they didn't do anything, Counselor, it's not that I say so, they tell her. There is no plan to prevent the service of the Galician Union throughout the rest of the year to make prevention, there is no such plan, and I am not blaming it or because of it the workers, but there is no such plan, and the advisor can't say it, because it doesn't exist, and therefore he has no plan on the table of absolutely no district. You talked about research here, actually, but you know what happened, Mrs. Paz? The more we investigated, the more we came to the conclusion that there were no pyromans and that there were no criminals. That's the problem of suppressing the investigation. Because the easiest thing is the headline of all the rulers and the president of the board, when there's a fire, saying it's intentional and that it's a pyroman and a madman. And when it was investigated, it came to the conclusion that, in any case, it was reckless and that, in any case, the cause that fire had become so big, indeed, it was not the pyromans, but it was the mismanagement of the territory. And it's proven: the more research was done, the less the causes of pyromans and – in some way – people who intentionally set fire to the mountain. Prevention policy. Actually, we've already talked about it here. What happens is we now have a counselor and we have a government that confuses forest prevention policy and forest planning that avoids fires by unraveling the roads. So from that moment on, we can agree. There's one thing that's new. Well, I always said here, Pladiga after Pladiga, that there was always a novelty. When they were the aerostatic balloons, I don't know what gave that result; when they were the drones, I don't know what it did. This year we have a novelty on the Pladiga, which is at least a bit peculiar or would deserve an explanation. It turns out that this year we couldn't hire the five take-off planes on the ground, because, well, the contest was deserted, and the president of the board went out saying nothing happened. Man, I don't know if it happens, I don't have any technical data or I dare say that this can be replaced so easily by helicopters, but what I don't understand is, if it was that simple, why we didn't do it before and we didn't replace them before by helicopters. I mean, if technically there were water-harvesting aircraft on land was not relevant and if they could quietly replace them with helicopters, as Mr. Feijóo said, what I don't understand is how we've been hiring airplanes for so many years, because it comes out much more expensive. And it turns out this year it's said that there are not the five planes, but that nothing happens, that we're going to hire the helicopters to replace the work of the planes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u331	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u332	...if it's so simple... yes, without any kind of technical explanation, or any kind of explanation why it happened or is better or worse. It's just, there's no planes, it's Feijó, saying, "It's okay, we're bringing the helicopters." Man, because we could have woken him up before and nothing happened. This is the policy of prevention and extinction that exists in this country; that is, 100 million euros a year, which is actually a great industry for many people, and the problem remains exactly the same, and as long as politics doesn't change... It's not about investing 100 and 100 and 100, because we've completely consumed them, since January 1st we've had them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u333	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u334	...consumed, without any kind of profitability, either in the middle or in the short or long term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u335	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Peace, you've been persisting throughout the legislation in a model that tells you that it's failed; besides, you said it was further dismantled, didn't you? But then, it's true that when we talk to him about 2006, he gets angry. And today we're not going to talk to you about the year 2006, we're not going to tell you about the year 2006, we're not going to talk to you about the bipartite legislate, the whole bipartite legislate. We're not going to talk to you about the year 2006. [[Murmurs.]] And the truth is to approve his amendment was to recover that philosophy that the Bipartite had in fire policy. The amendment you are presenting today would be to return, if you don't want to go back to 2006, to 2007, 2008; it would be to come back there, which we understand was that. But you, the truth, in this legislation, have not shown that they had no interest in solving any fires, what they were interested in was the political debate. Because it is true that during this legislation you have not been able to bring a serious debate on fires to this Parliament, and we have told them several times that we were willing to assess the improvement measures that could be proposed. Moreover, we said that we were willing to look together for formulas so that it would be easier to collaborate and involve everyone in the fight against fire. And we have brought an initiative to this Parliament for that. And do you know that you voted for the Socialist Party, the Nationalist Block Galego and the AGE? On the contrary, on the contrary. And besides, you said something here that we can't agree with, because you said fire research brigades didn't exist. Look, a means of communication – the World – in January, he did a report on these professionals and their work. But look, the Pladiga 2016, on page 103, here you'll collect it -- I'll let you, Mr. President, pass it on to them, because they probably haven't read the Pladiga, they haven't read the Pladiga -- but the evolution of the fires, look... the data doesn't invent the People's Party, the Government of Galicia, the data is data, and in the last ten years the number of fires has been reduced by 60%; 6 out of every 10 fires is history before they exceed a hectare. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Over the past four years, 2012 to 2015 – these are data, these are data – the average number of fires decreases by 53.84%, less than those three and a half years that you had. Oh, but the average burnt surface is down 71%, 70.85. Comparing... I told you I wasn't going to talk to you about 2006, I'm going to tell you about the whole legislation. [[Murmurs.]] This is data, this is data, this is data. [[Murmurs.]] But it's more. There's a model with more means than ever before. That model that you say is dismantled today is a model that has more means than ever. 100% of the vacant squares have been covered, there is already the single command, there is the only command, about the law and on the ground, which is what you say. And we also have a model with more means than ever: more personnel – they have called 188 new squares – and more means – 16 helicopters, 2 more Ministry, 2 amphibious planes and 2 cargo on land, 32 heliported brigades. And you insist constantly that there is no prevention. Well, it's true, if you don't want to see it, because there's no prevention, but it's true that we have a device of prevention and extinction, of course, the most powerful in Spain, the most powerful in Spain. [[Laughter]] And it would be impossible, it would be impossible to get the results that we have, because you see, ten years ago, we were between 10,000 to 12,000 fires a year and today we are on a roof of 4,000, and today we are on a roof of 4,000. That's the reality. And only in 2015 did Junta invest 22 million to carry out preventive actions in the mountains, and it acted on more than 45,400 hectares. These are data. You go out to Parliament's gallery, you don't like it, we don't think you like it, we didn't like your model either. That's why we don't want to go back to 2006, 2007, 2008, but the data shows that at least things are getting much better. If we reduce the number of fires from 10,000 to 12,000 to 4,000, if we reduce the number of hectares to 70%, and if we reduce the fires to 60%, at least better than you are doing. It doesn't mean it's all done, nor do we want to be triumphalists here either, because on the subject of fire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u337	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u338	...it's not all done nor have to be triumphant. But, if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u339	Briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u340	...that we are at the last plenary session, I simply object to the opposition, what I wanted to say is that with fire we must be careful – speaking in political terms, eh! – because with fire one can burn and I think that some of you may have been burned in this legislation. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u341	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Motion author group. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't bring the Pladiga printed, but, as a modern girl, I know how to walk on the Internet; so, page 21 of the Pladiga. I, Mr. Balsairo, didn't want to... no, no, no, but look, I, really, didn't want to make it look ridiculous, but page 21 of the Pladiga, because here the data is the data, so let's go to the data. [[Murmurs.]] Comparative of the evolution of the total area burned per year and ratio of the total area burnt by fire. Pladiga 2016, a joint document. Then, let's go: year 2007, 7,000 hectares, 2,28 hectares per fire; 2008, 6,336 hectares, 2,49 hectares per fire; 2009 – it sounds a little bit in 2009, right? –, 10,740 hectares, 2,70 hectares per fire – and rising –; 2010, 14,000 hectares and 3,84 hectares per fire; 2011, 42,932 hectares, 6,68 hectares per fire; 2012, 15,598 hectares, 4.11 hectares per fire. [[Murmurs.]] Do you want me to go on, ladies and gentlemen? Is that right? Is that right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u343	Silence, silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u344	Page 21 of the Pladiga. They all have internet access, ladies and gentlemen; they use it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u345	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u346	That's all right, man, that's all right, fuck! Data is data; in fact, data is data. [[Applause]] Mrs Martínez, of course we accept your amendment to Seaga and I will take advantage of it to say that, indeed, among the many derived ones who have the problem of forest fires – which in ten minutes we cannot speak of all – is the systematic violation of workers' labour rights. And, indeed, it is time for Seaga workers – who work for the Government of Wales through a 100 percent public company since 2007 and 2008, many others since 2007 – to have a collective agreement or be supported by the collective employment agreement of the Galician Union. And I'm going to give you a good news, which you already know, – I suppose – and bad – to those, which is that a jury of Ourense, specifically the Social Judge Na3, just issued a sentence, on yesterday, in which you recognize that 71 workers who have filed a collective petition from Seaga to the trial... say that they need to be applied to the Fifth Staff Convention of the Board of Galicia as we saw, by the way, saying, from this side of the hemicycle for virtually all of this legislation against the stones on this side that are not completely altered for nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u347	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u348	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u349	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u350	We're going to vote on the motions. We begin by voting the G.P. Socialist motion on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the decrease of teaching staff and researcher in the University System of Galicia. We vote. Voting of the motion of the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the decrease of teaching staff and researcher in the University System of Galicia. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u351	We are now voting on the Socialist G.P. motion on the necessary actions to promote, facilitate and encourage the recovery of demography in Galicia. We vote. Vote of the motion of the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the execution by the Government of Galicia of all the actions necessary to promote, facilitate and encourage the demographic recovery of Galicia. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u352	We voted for the Galego Nationalist Block's G.P. Motion on the measures to be taken by the German Government in relation to the forest fire fighting device. The amendment of the Joint Group is accepted. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the G.P motion of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the fight against forest fires. The voting was as follows: voting in favour, 27; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG161.u353	We'll stop the session until tomorrow.
