ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u1	Take care of your transactions that we're going to restart the session. Good morning. Let's restart the session. I'm sorry today for attending this plenary, Mr. Beiras, whose wish is for your recovery. And let's start with point 8, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the condensance of its response in the face of cases of corruption
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u2	We begin with the question of Mr. Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at any time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, at the last control session, I proposed a new slogan for his party: "All for the folder." I was referring to Ence, but I could refer to Operation Tabula, the Punica case, the Aquamed scandal, Rodrigo Rato, Alfonso Grau. Look, Jaume Perich, a late Catalan graphic humorist, said military justice is just as fair as military music is to music. Today we would have to add: the same thing that the People's Party is to democratic regeneration, because the list of scandals that blow up its party is endless. And you say you ask for forgiveness as a politician for the theatre of negotiations to form government in Madrid. Look, don't other things happen to you to ask for forgiveness? Even Mrs. Aguirre resigned and apologized for signaling Mr. Rajoy's way. Don't you realize that your party while it isn't reinstated is totally and absolutely disabled to rule? Also in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. You stated in a recent interview – the country textually – that "The People's Party had a warm response in many cases of corruption," and added that "We have failed to be cunning and bold to anticipate these issues and then to react to them," you would refer to the state. And in Galicia, is the Galician Board's response being overwhelming? Do you think you're bold enough to anticipate these issues and react? Because in the short time that we've spent the year, the Supreme Court has confirmed the sentence of six years to Martial Dorado for money laundering, Mr. Pachi Lucas was accused of being a suspect achievement in the Zeta plot, Mr. José Manuel Baltar was charged with the commission of a alleged offence of bribery and trafficking in influence. And you still don't explain your dangerous friendships with Mr. Martial Dorado and Pachi Lucas, keep looking the other way before Mr. Baltar's accusation, keep looking the other way at the indications that the Galician People's Party was a central piece in the irregular funding plot of the People's Party. And his party rewards Mr. Louzán, still president of the People's Party in Pontevedra and double-accused, appointing him counsellor in the MP. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, do you really think your response to corruption cases in Galicia affecting your party is being overwhelming?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u4	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, we all know that corruption is a problem that affects society in very different ways. We knew yesterday the percentage of tax fraud detected by the Ministry of Business in 2015: more than 15,600 million euros, 27% more of the tax fraud detected in the previous year 2014. Corruption affects many honest politicians, who see as one part of other unhonested politicians get their hands on the box, have money in tax havens, are commissioners and take part in public procurement. Corruption affects the whole of society, which sees itself in a perplexing way as institutions are being hourd, confidence in political parties and trust in politicians in general. Your Honor, in a context aggravated by the crisis and these kinds of issues are emerging populist ideas that they rightly want to take advantage of the more corrupt crisis and corruption of many politicians to time for true democracy. It is these populist ideas that consider BNG to be an old party, which is a party that must be refounded, which is a party that must be extinguished, which is a party that is not useful to Galicia. Your Honor, I do not agree with these populist ideas, and I do not agree because I believe in democracy, believe in political parties and believe in the vast majority of politicians' honesty. That's why, Your Honor, what we're doing and what we're going to do is remove any evidence of corruption from the Galician People's Party. [[Applause]] This room and the Journal of Sessions can specify how we pronounce ourselves on certain members of the People's Party in Spain who have been saying they were repugnant to us, they continue to abhor us even more. And this Parliament is perfectly aware of how we have removed two Members from the People's Parliamentary Group from understanding that there was some indication of corruption; for now, one of them has been declared innocent and another pending trial. Your Honor, that very morning, the BNG, in connection with a former advisor to the BNG, stated that in no case would he resign that former advisor to the BNG. After a few weeks he had to resign. That's why, Your Honor, I think at this moment it's appropriate to talk about what each one does. A year ago I appeared in this chamber, I proposed five legislative texts, four of them in force and one to be approved next March: a Law of Transparency and Good Government, as never before had Galicia; a Law of Management of Legal Assistance, as never before had Galicia; a Law of Enlargement of the Council of Auditors, just so that they control the assumptions and finances of political parties, as never had Galicia; a Law of Financing of Political Parties where it was forbidden to receive donations from any company in Galicia, as never had Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u7	Your Honor, if you ask me that from the point of view of the legislation and the actions of this government we are powerful against corruption, I say: yes, we are the most powerful government against corruption. And this Parliament is the most powerful against corruption. Nothing else, thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, you are invited to attend our 15th National Assembly. Look, Mr. Feijóo, you know that BNG is very sensitive to the problem of tax fraud. I make a recommendation: ask the Central Government to refrain from making an amnesty for the big fraudsters if they have that sensitivity. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijó, indeed, his Government has passed laws to combat future corruption, to cover up its inaction to the present corruption. There is a very clear difference between the attitude of the BNG and the attitude of the People's Party: the former advisor to whom you allege, although we do not doubt his innocence, he resigned before being charged; on the other hand, you still confuse the presumption of criminal innocence with the assumption of political responsibilities. If we have to wait for the judges to pronounce themselves, what does that boldness consist of in anticipation of reacting to the cases of corruption that you invoke? Because it is not the BNG who accuses the Irregular People's Funding Party, Mr Feijóo; I am Naseiro, Pablo Crespo, Modesto Fernández, militants of his party. It's Gerardo Crespo, PP militant, who insinuates that Pachi Lucas used his relationship with you to act as a achievementist. It's not the BNG who revealed his relationship with the Golden Martial, Mr. Feijóo, it was a photo. Your problem, Mr. Feijóo, are the photos. Do you know this one, Mr. Feijó? Do you know this picture? Look, you're hugging the president of Iberdrola in April 2009. In February of that year Iberdrola had asked for the suspension of the wind competition, in August, after such tender embrace, the board cancelled that contest, and now the Supreme says that that cancellation was illegal. Mr. Feijóo, corruption is also to subject public interests to private interests. You'll say that in the new Iberdrola contest you only got two megawatts, but that's not the relevant one, Mr. Feijóo. What's relevant is that you've achieved what you wanted, put down a model of public participation and thus consolidate your dominant position...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u11	...in the sector in the whole state. Drop down a model that could also be a reference to other territories. You've been in power diversion, ruined the wind sector, and now you're going to have to deal with the payment of compensation. You have created a situation of total and absolute legal insecurity. Look – and I'm finished, Mr. President –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u12	Finish it, yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u13	...Jaume Perich also said that paratroopers are the only military ascending thanks to the descents. And you may also aspire to ascend, to jump to Madrid, for making a decisive contribution to the decline in democratic quality in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u14	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I appreciate your invitation to the 15th National Assembly of BNG. The People's Party congresses we're going to hold in March are also given as a guest. You're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] As you can understand, because you heard what I said, I don't think BNG is an old party that has to be extinguished, I think it can still be useful to Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] That's right, if you don't follow the minority parties like you did in the Pontevedra Town Hall last Monday. If this is an example of democratic regeneration, of using institutions in accordance with the basic principles of political coexistence, Mr Jorquera, the BNG is in free fall; not at the moment in Pontevedra, not in the rest of the cities itself. [[Murmurs.]] I hope and wish, Your Honor, that they will not continue to despising politics, despising the institutions and using the first pontevédres, mayor of Pontevedra, to miss the vast majority of the city of Pontevedra, as they did in the Plenary of the Pontevedra Corporation. That's by no means anything BNG should follow. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, you must not follow the populism, not even the Socialist Party, with which, by the way, you rule in all institutions. And talking about corruption ruling in all institutions with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is a lack of respect for the facts, facts that can be described in the newspapers and newspapers of recent years. So, Your Honor, when you talk to me about presumption of innocence, I agree. You'll remember how when seven constables in Santiago were unjustly convicted, disabled, later released the sentence without effect, but we had to dissolve the corporation. You turned to the judges before you were tried to insult those who would declare. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Your Honor, they're there. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, check out the hemerothecs. Yes, near his seat, there are people who turn to the judges against the principle of innocence... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u16	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u17	...who later confirmed himself. Look, Your Honor, 200 contracts in law fraud at the Social Services Consortium are what you left. More than 400 contracts, 441, 90% of those smaller contracts, for 5 million euros, are what you left at the Consortium. Your Honor, when you talk to me about the Industry Counsellor, it's true that in thirty-seven years, the BNG only had four advisors in the Government, one of them being accused right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u19	Why? For committees. Why? For using favors to entrepreneurs. If you want to ask me for my opinion, I think you have the right to all the presumption of innocence of laws. That's why, Mr. Jorquera, there is a difference between you and me: I do not prejudge, you condemn. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the views of the Government of Galicia regarding the search for consensus on the definition of economic strategy for the productive sectors of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u21	Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, whenever possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u22	Mr. Feijóo, you must be the only Spaniard who doesn't know what's going on with your organization. No, it's not days to talk about certain subjects. Mr. Feijóo, you will surely have an opinion on Abraham Lincoln, this great American president, one of the principals of history, anti-slavery, defender of the Union, brilliant speaker. She's given a famous sentence. He says you can fool some all the time or many for a little while, but you can't fool everyone all the time. And of course you tried, Mr. Feijó. You after seven years it turns out that all those promises of yours were in lies and their commitments in smoke, even in matters to which you devoted extreme attention when you were in opposition, as was the management of the wind and the sea. The wind sector, remember? You promised here over and over again growth and security, and what happened was seven years of political error, technical cover and economic failure. Today we are in absolute paralysis, extreme legal insecurity and investor deception. In figures, no new facility, none of which you promised, 6 billion investments that don't exist, 13,000 jobs that you promised and didn't create, were your commitments. What remains is deception, frustration, lost opportunities, and new legal risks due to heritage responsibility. In case it hadn't been long, they applauded when the Rajoy government liquidated the premiums, and with that it compromised the viability of the sector. In the sea, you were hypercritical for years with the Acuculture Plan of the previous Government. And speaking too much, as usual, you said that with your government we would be in aquaculture at the head of Europe. And actually for seven years he did? Papers and statements. First, he authorized proceedings in places prohibited by Community legislation, then they adopted a so-called empty content aquaculture strategy, and now a unanimously rejected bill. And I put it in digits: not a square meter of new installations, except the wall plant, which was authorized by the former Government. The main production of the Galician aquaculture, Mr. Feijóo, is in the batas, we are an international power in the cultivation of the mussel, and the bill does not quote the sector, nor does it provide for any measure of empowerment. You seem irrelevant to a sector that employs 4,000 people and represents 95% of Spanish production, which has been growing for 50 years in spite of you. Mr Feijóo, have you ever tried a minimum of consensus in sectoral policies with the affected sectors? You don't think it's enough to legislate and promote anti-interest actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u24	...and people's needs?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, call me Abraham Lincoln, I think I remember Abraham Lincoln being a Republican. I also quoted Abraham Lincoln as a result of the fraudulent use that the Banco de España was making with the Greek boxes and how you wanted nothing more and nothing less than to relocate the Greek boxes by doing – remember – SIP, i.e., reversible cold fusion, and staying Vigo and La Coruña without any kind of central service of the box and empty their buildings, because all the people from the central services of the box would have to go to Madrid or Asturias. I used Lincoln at the time, and that's why I'm glad you're still using Lincoln. Yes, Your Honor, if Mr Lincoln had been here and heard you ask me if we're going to follow a definition of Galicia's economic strategy based on consensus, because look, Your Honor, the slogan at this time of the Socialist Party in Spain in relation to consensus is: "You're not in." I mean, we'll never talk to the People's Party, we'll never talk to more than 7,300.00 Spaniards who voted for the People's Party. If that is your consensus, Mr. Méndez Romeo, you will understand that Abraham Lincoln would be amazed after listening to him. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we're going to continue working for consensus, actually. We find consensus in the automotive sector with auxiliary companies and we find consensus with PSA Peugeot-Citroën, we find consensus to get 2 million vans and we will continue to work to find other consensus. By the way, I appreciate you following the decision of the Vigo Council to support the law we approved yesterday in the House. Your Honor, we have approved and found consensus in the naval sector, against all, including the Commissioner of the Socialist Party in Europe. We went to Brussels and today there are 1,800 million euros in orders from the German naval sector. We find consensus in ICT. We have an agreement with all multinational companies and Galicians. We find consensus in the tourism sector. And when you tell me about the wind competition, Your Honor, exactly what are you talking about? There are twenty-one appeals, seventeen gave the reason to the Galician Council, three are still pending. Exactly what is it that accuses us of, that we win all the firm judgments and that we have three judgments pending? Your Honor, when you tell me we didn't do anything in the wind competition, 84% of the wind competition goes on, 84% goes on. When he tells me we haven't done anything about the industrial plans, because there's 970 million euros invested and 2,000 jobs won. Much more than the Bipartite did, as you know. But when you talk to me about consensus in the wind sector, I remind you: do you have a consensus in the Bipartisan Government on the wind sector? Did you become a member of the Bipartisan Government have a consensus with the BNG wind sector? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, Abraham Lincoln – I insist –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u28	I'd be amazed at his intervention. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u30	But, Mr. Feijóo, you have to be inconsequential! You should read the papers today. [[Laughter]] I mean, you're proud of the sale operation that was done with the old Greek boxes. I mean, you're begging for the need for consensus. Look, Mr. Feijóo, yesterday the Socialist Group anticipated the urgent needs of Vigo citizens to the text you presented, which was absolutely improved. And you ask for dialogue. Yesterday we offered you a substantial improvement in the text, and you as usual were not able to accept it. And yet, on behalf of Vigo, we voted in favour of a bill knowing that sooner or later there will be a need to introduce new legal amendments. But, Mr. Feijóo, if the Land Law has not yet entered into force and we are already changing it. Do you want me to tell you how many times Mr. Rajoy has called for consensus in the last four years in Spanish politics? Because he's suddenly converted to the unionist cause, as we speak in terms of Lincoln. Suddenly, the PP becomes the need for dialogue. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijó, you are not consistent. Look, you sure read the main newspapers in Galicia. One of them just published an editorial that talks about you, and it's published by your editor. And he says, "Practically everything that in the Greek economy has ever been relevant has been sold or suffers the esters of agony without public authorities being able to stop the decline." Go get yourself. Mr President, productive sectors need legal guarantees, improvements, but they don't need laws they don't ask for, and they're tailors to cover up the absolute paralysis of their government over the last seven years. You were on your day in this absolutely irresponsible chamber, using a private company, Pescanova at that time, with an openly illegal pretext to enforce the previous Aquaculture Plan, which had indeed been drafted with consensus. You were so inconsequent that what you were defending here your counsellor's office has vetoed you five times, and I've got here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u32	...the documents. You were naturally vested in the exercise of law enforcement as counsellor, which since the opposition demanded as a political activity. And now, Mr. President, they have again used false arguments over the past few months, false arguments about the marishes, false arguments about the concessions. Mr. Feijóo, in these major strategic issues of the country, such as the wind competition or how the management of aquaculture, you record seven years of nothing, seven years of emptiness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u34	...seven years of speech and, above all, seven years of deception.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u35	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u36	Your Honor, when you refer to the consent of the law we passed yesterday, you forget that we passed a law because Vigo's General Plan of Urban Management, approved by your government, by the way, by one of the advisors who is now responsible for Urbanism of Vigo, has had several judgments of complete annulment in the Supreme Court. You tell me about legal security. How do you have the city of Vigo right now? Is there anything you can do in the city of Vigo right now with legal certainty? What we approved yesterday here for responsibility as the Government of all the vigues, which is the Government of the Council of Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why talking about legal security by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party – I insist – is a metaphor. You're talking about the Law of the Land. Look, Your Honor, the amendments you proposed in the Land Law Committee we accepted them and then voted against your own amendments. You were already anticipating what "you're not in" -- that is, with the People's Party you can't even agree on. [[Murmurs.]] But don't worry, Your Honor, tomorrow at the Board of Trustees we're going to approve the start of the regulation that develops the Land Law; that is, before it comes into force we're going to continue to work on land management in the autonomous community. You were in government, you didn't do anything, you didn't do land management guidelines, you didn't have land planning plans, you didn't have land law. We're going to do that, even the regulation. Your Honor, when you told me that you had an Aquaculture Plan that everybody supported, 1,047 claims had the Aquaculture Plan, it didn't approve. Not only that, but they repealed a Water Plan of the People's Party Government which had three allegations. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, experts in mexillon cultivation, indeed. Sanction of the National Competition Market Commission, 4 million euros that had to pay this government. "The drummers leave the room with the Chief Fisheries Officer of the Bipartite of the time." It's here at your disposal. As you read many newspapers, I pray that this editorial will read it completely, to see what the editorial of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the theater you've been used to in the past month. Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, if what Mr. Sánchez wants is to approve the federal committee's investment session, I understand it; what I cannot understand is that he has deceived all Spaniards with this theater that's been mocking all over Spain for four weeks in an investment session that nothing has to do and that nothing can pull out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Your Honor, don't speak of consensus because you deny consensus to everyone. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we are going to continue to protect the fisheries and aquaculture sector, which is why the sales of bass rise, the sales of the fence rise and the sales of the seafood rise. And we're still working on new industrial sectors, yes, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u38	Tomorrow, at the board of seats, we'll give you good news, I hope that for the Socialist Party, who wanted to do it and couldn't, I'm referring to the Rozas aerodrome. We will actually build an industrial technology park, with more than 100 million euros of investment. It's a new sector, the aeronautical sector, for a province of the interior, the province of Lugo. Twenty-two years in the Spanish Government talking about Rozas. Your Honor, in full economic recession Rozas has an investment of 100 million euros, and it's the biggest bet... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u40	...industrial that never made a Government of Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u42	...by Lugo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Joint action by the Government of Greece to prevent dismissal of workers currently covered by the urban waste transport service by road to Sogama
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u44	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. I want to begin by greeting the Pellejero transport workers who accompany us to hear their answer. According to their own statements, the greatest concern of the Greek Government is the 220,000 Welsh people who remain unemployed and that the goal of the Union is to reduce unemployment by around 10 per cent by 2020. However, we check every day how Junta allows, when it does not cooperate, the precariousness and destruction of employment in tax firms of public services, as has just happened to 68 workers and workers of Pellegero Transport. The DOG of 22 July 2014 published the announcement of combined transport of urban waste from transfer plants to the environmental complex of Cerceda and the Areosa dump. Four offers were presented, in any case UTE. Sogama decided to exclude the UTE from the company that had been providing Ferrovial-Pellejero service for considering its economic offer, the lowest of all, abnormal or disproportionate, and adjudicating the contract to Copasa-Renfe. I'm not going to go into like Copasa, which the Union has allowed at the end of 2014 to run only half of the Costa da Morte's bus for financial incapacity, now it gives an invitation and it doesn't give it to the competitor, because it considers its economic proposal to be unrealistic. But if I want to talk about the clauses, which he says textually in relation to the labor and judicial obligations of the adjudicator: "The staff necessary for the execution of the contract will depend solely on the adjudicatory entity, being Sogama alien to the relationships referred to." As always, Junta is concerned only about disposing of any job responsibility in relation to the staff of the companies serving the Greek administration, even if the dismissals or measures taken by the company are based on non-compliance, interpretation or termination of the contract, as shown in the same envelopes. The UTE Copasa-Renfe will now be the one who decides whether or not to hire the workers of the former Sogama transportation assistant, who as a form of pressure has just called an indefinite strike since February 15th. At a meeting held between the parties at the Galego Labour Relations Council, Copasa undertook to restore 54 workers from the 68 people affected by Pellejero Transport. But Copasa refuses to have the offer collected in writing, so there really is no offer. These workers would come to work in any case for the company that subcontracts Copasa to attend the service: Transport Group Pacholo, which has a much lower agreement than that of Transport Pellejero. In fact, the workers, if they entered, which is still unclear, would no longer charge between 1,800 and 2,100 euros a month in fourteen dollars a month to charge 1,100 euros gross a month. And because of this and thanks to the union pressure, which increases it to 4,700 euros over the rest of the workers who hire Pacholo. I mean, you didn't help Pellejero because the offer was very low, you helped the Copasa with a higher offer, but it made the workers and the workers more precarious. So I'm asking you to answer to the Pellejero workers who are going to go to Junta to defend the permanence of all the staff in the transport of Sogama garbage with the same working conditions they had in Pellejero Transport. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do indeed agree with you that the primary concern of the Government of Galicia is unemployment, without a doubt, the first concern. And that's why, Your Honor, despite having less than half the rest of the state unemployment, we understand that it's insufficient, and for those 220,000 people who don't have work the crisis and the economic recession is as hard as it was from the beginning, from the year 2008 to the year 2009 and so on, that they've been suffering many of the Greeks and they're still suffering those more than 220,000 who don't find work. Your Honor, you ask me a question about the work problem of a private company, which is Pellejero and Sons. A conflict, indeed, of the workers of this company, who had a contract to transfer the transport of waste from the 37 plants of transfer from Sogama to Cerceda. Your Honor, in the middle of last year – as you have just remembered – Sogama has bid this service. Why? Because the previous company had been in service for ten years and because the extensions were exhausted, two, which had the company as a adjudicator, twelve years! Probably if we didn't take out that contract, you'd be asking me how we might not take out a contract that has exhausted the contract deadline and its extensions. What we did accordingly was take out that contract and fulfill the Plan for Urban Waste Management 2010-2020, which is aimed at making more effective waste management, and what we just aim to do is to gradually abandon transport by trucks to train transport. The goal is to move from 25% of train transportation to 55%. And that's why the offer, according to the recruitment table, was the one that led Renfe to the Greek company you're referring to. Your Honor, no trap or card accordingly. Look, you know as much as I do and the workers that the Coruña Transportation Convention does not envisage the subrogation of employees of a company when the owner of that company that provides the service is changed. I mean, he won't allow it. And so, Your Honor, what we did, knowing that this was going to produce a problem for the people who were performing correctly and satisfactorily their work, was to start talking. Talking to who? With all of you, Your Honor. Dialogue with the adjudicate company, dialogue with the workers and dialogue with the field of work relations. That's what we did, and I think things were not wrong. And it wasn't bad because you just mentioned that of all the workers right now there are 54 who have already accepted the conditions offered and 5 who have refused those conditions because they were not interested in the work. If we add up to the 54 and the 5 gives us 59, and up to the 64 left five, which, of course, will have to continue to work to see what solution is given to them. But, Your Honor, if you want to fix the problem, the problem is that the Government was obliged to bid that contract. Second, that the Government was obliged to value more of those transports that had been done by train and less of the transports that had been done by truck. And that the Government has acted and interacted by trying to dialogue between the parties, and today 54 people have their jobs where they had them, 5 have resigned for personal circumstances and the missing four or five will have to keep talking. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u47	Please finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u48	...I think Sogama did a good job and I think the government bidding that contract fulfilled its duty. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u50	I don't know how to qualify him, and forgive him because I don't want to miss him about it, but his answer is indecent. I'm not telling you not to bid out, I'm telling you that when you take out the auction at Junta, you have to make it clear that the workers who are serving have to be subrogated. You can't let Junta present a set of conditions that says the workers who are providing the service will be automatically fired when you change the tendering company. That's the problem. The problem is that the Union does not defend the interests of the workers. And I'm going to say more: there's no such offer, there's nothing written, because Copasa himself denied the written statement on the Labour Relations Council before Mr. Demetrius, President of the Council; he denied that the President of the Council had signed that agreement and that the agreement remained firm, still in those conditions of working precariousness. Because you're not talking about these people giving up the contract, anyway, because labor conditions don't give you to live, because it's misery. And what I demand is that this never happen again. We lived it in San Francisco, we lived it every time there's a change of law enforcement, and who pays it is the workers and the workers, and not because they've rendered a bad service, not because they failed to comply with their agreement, but because the board decides to leave them unprotected according to the interests of companies that then hire a new staff in more precarious conditions. And that's how it's precarious work in our country. And besides, in order for workers not to be able to defend themselves, they impose minimum services that almost force 100 percent of the staff to work, because the minimum services are not affecting, they don't apply to the transport workers, they apply to the staff set, and therefore almost 100 percent are covering the service. You haven't spoken, therefore, of what's important, and it's how many more Pellejero Transportation there will be, how many more questions, how many more times the workers will have to stay in the street so the Government can't go around saying that it fights unemployment, while allowing precariousness and layoffs in its own law firms. I ask him, what is he going to do to get this deal really shaped and the conditions they had in Pellejero to stay in the new company? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u52	Your Honor, the prayer you refer to has been published, if I do not remember correctly, in the month of July; it has been published in the Official Journal of Galicia, published on the website of the Council of Galicia and the rest of the official newspapers where it is mandatory. You said nothing about it, nothing; no one made any allegations about it. Second. I reiterate to you, Your Honor, that the Convention of Transport in Coruña does not permit the subrogation of workers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, I know you never miss the president of the board, except when he talks... and sometimes when he shoots, but that'll be your problem, and so it goes. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u53	Excuse me, Mr. President. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm sorry. I beg the House services to help our guests leave the Chamber. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, silence, please. Quiet, please. [[Applause]] Silence! House services, please. House services, help our guests. [[Murmurs.]] You understand your message, I beg you now, please, that the House services accompany you to the exit. [[Murmurs.]] No, get 'em out. Take it easy. You got it. [[Applause]] Silence, please. You got it, you got it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please. Quiet. Quiet, please. The message is already understood. Now the President will finish the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Reiterate, Your Honor, the Convention on the Transport of the Province of Coruña prevents automatic subrogation of transport personnel. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know you don't care about the arrangement, you don't care about the laws, you don't care about everything, because you're not here to comply with the laws; you're probably here to violate them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u55	Mrs. Martínez, call her in order. Silence! Quiet and call it by order, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u56	The 54 workers who continue with their indefinite contract understand the answer I'm giving. That's what we're interested in: that workers understand that we work and we're going to work for the job in Galicia. Yes, Your Honor, that's why the 54 workers who continue with indefinite contracts in Sogama are not here. And that's why you bring a union conflict... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u57	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u58	...but not a labor conflict. And so, Your Honor, what you don't mean is that lie when you say Sogama is on strike; you're lying. But he doesn't care, what's the point of lying once again? Look, Your Honor, let's keep working, I'm proud of Sogama, we're producing more electricity than ever, we're recycling more than ever, we're improving Sogama's services more than ever. We're not going up the Sogama cannon next year. And so, Your Honor, if you have any interest in some company, there you and you defend it. I have interests with the recruitment table to say cleanly what is the best offer for Galician interests. Therefore, Your Honor, you continue to defend the companies, which I will continue to defend the workers. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] We continue with point 6 of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the VAT which is being applied to the products of intimate female hygiene
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u60	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. For the defense of this non-law proposal, Mrs Iglesias has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] [[Pause.]] Whenever you want, Mrs. Churches, you can start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u61	Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much, President. To add my indignation to Mrs Martínez's companion with the President's reply to her question and my solidarity with the employees of the company who are about to lose their job. And now it's going to be an absolutely radical change of theme because we're going to talk about menstruation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u62	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u63	...which is also a very important issue. This is a natural process of female status, which is stigmatized by patriarchy. And why he's stigmatized we all know. The Jewish-Christian vision of the world that inspires Western civilization considers that the body and sexuality of women represented in the figure of Eve are responsible for the evils of humanity. And so it shows the fact that for many years if we were considered unclean at the time of menstruation or illness. This GNP is therefore to claim that menstruation is a natural fact and that what it generates in products must have an over-reduced EVV. Because even though things have changed for the better, it wasn't enough for the menstrual cycle that ends with bleeding to be considered by society as a biological prodigy that acts as a monthly self-cleaning system that protects us, women, our genital system, and when estrogens reinforce our defenses by increasing the resistance of white blood cells. How a privilege we have can become a curse because of a torturing interpretation? A woman menstruates an average of thirty-five years of her life and consumes about 17 thousand compresses throughout her fertile stage; we speak only of menstruation. You cannot deny, therefore, your basic product or first-needed product condition, because it responds to an inescapable need that poses a huge economic burden for women for a very long part of your life. It's not the feminine hygiene products that you can choose to use or not, there's nothing else left! They're essential, because without them people who cheat couldn't make a normal public or private life. In September 2012 they are no longer considered – until 2012 luxury articles have been considered, not if they lose it! – luxury articles from the tax point of view and goes to 10%, labelled as reduced VAT. This contrasts with other basic products, such as bread and milk, which are applied to 4%. This seems to me to be a form of tax machoism which penalises the consumption of an exclusive product of women and which is inseparable from our biological condition, and therefore – I repeat – of first necessity to half of citizenship. Today's competitive and free market prices force many women to turn to so-called "white marks", of very low quality in terms of absorption and also the material used in these white brand products, which has a negative impact on our genital health, allergies and skin problems, and also on our quality of life; on the quality of life, above all, of women who cannot access by their price a product of intimate hygiene of quality. FACUA – an association of consumers – conducted a study on this topic in six supermarket chains with the following result: price differences between white brands and quality brands reach 400%. Well, what this initiative – I repeat – is the decriminalization of menstruation, as is already being done in these European countries of those who are often spoken of in this Chamber as a goal of progress for our own and the model of society. Well, in those countries, in the United Kingdom, they are already filmed with only 5% and, besides – and this is very important – the Government of Cameron – with which I do not sympathize too much but in this matter yes – has committed to allocating the money collected with this 5% to social projects supporting women. In England today, in the United Kingdom, a Conservative Government. And in Canada – and this would be the ideal model – since June last year, buffers, compresses and menstrual cups are exempt from EVV. I hope that this initiative which I bring to this Parliament today will be adopted unanimously and, if not, that it will count on the majority vote of all the women we are in this chamber and that we are taking a seat today. I hope, and I would of course be greatly surprised, that the PP Members, if the PP men refuse the initiative, they will also reject it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about menstruation. Okay. Thank you very much and nothing more. I look forward to the adoption of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u64	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u65	Thank you, President. We shall vote in favour of this initiative. We thank the Joint Group for bringing it to debate because unfortunately, as with many others that we have already brought here and others that have not yet come, it seems that women's issues are secondary, which is a question of laughter, and we see how in the Chamber we are left few and few, as if this were a minor issue. However, it is an issue that affects in much of its life half the population of the country, the state and the world. We cannot choose – as it is said here – whether or not to have menstruation. Therefore, menstrual hygiene products are products of first necessity, such as any other product that is used in a house, in a home every day. I mean, that up here we could get to the intervention, we would say that we voted favourably and that it would end. Indeed, – as was said here – FACUA has a very interesting report on the prices of hygiene and menstrual products, and in that same report it also indicates that these products make 286 million euros a year in the state as a whole; it is not a minor issue and, of course, many brands do business with this matter. And the State raised EUR 28 million through taxation with these products, according to FACUA's own report. It's a quantity that's not a huge amount compared to what's collected with all of the VAT in the rest of the products, but that's important for many women, because besides these products are recorded equally for all of them. Imagine what it is besides, in addition to what it is already having to pay every month for them, for a person who has no resources! It is important that we talk about these issues here, because it seems that they always – as I said – remain in a secondary plan. It's not strange when even gender-based violence itself, which is such an important issue, is not treated as a matter of priority, but is always above other economic affairs, deficit or any other subject. We see him these days with the government's own negotiation. And it would even be important to talk about issues as if you're already talking in other cameras. She spoke of the UK Joint Group spoke of, but we can also talk about France, which is studying the "speech rate" that has other products, which is why that difference in prices between "for men and women" products – between you quote that for men and women, so they label them markets – and they end up finding that many of these products are much more expensive when the audience to whom they are addressed is the female. That would be interesting to study it, but it's a term that covers the market – let's say – private, that makes the marks for more benefits. In this case we're talking about a tax and therefore a public performance, which is much easier. The Government has in its hand to lower the VAT of a product which is of first necessity for obvious reasons, as just explained. We have already argued in this chamber that direct taxes are not where more popular classes are to be recorded, precisely those that we have referred to the need for progressive taxes to record the highest incomes that have to finance public services and state services, not taxes on usual consumer goods and first-needed goods as is the case. I'm done. We will support this initiative. We would also like to see this VAT applied to these products be reduced to zero. We understand that this is a step that can be the first step towards reaching that final exemption and we believe that it should be given the importance of this chamber that it deserves, because the affairs that affect women's daily lives, and this is one more, are no smaller issue or should not be a minor issue within the politics of any government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by recalling that today is Rosaly Day, that all of us know that it is particularly good to debate a tax cut initiative with a gender perspective or, if I may say it, clearly feminist on such a day as today, when our writer reminded us all that we need to break molds, that we have to talk about what is not visible. And I, although talking about menstruation and tax types, brought a poem to read from this stage, which I think reflects also the spirit of this initiative, which I congratulate on it, to Mrs Churches: "Of those who sing to doves and to reeds / all say they have a woman's soul; / for I do not sing them, Virgin of the dove, / Ah!, what shall I have?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Many women have been trying to find a different way to be in the world for centuries. And actually going out here today and talking about menstruation is a different way of breaking up with stereotypes and what made a taboo, because it was done during culture, in all cultures, but basically in Western culture, and that we can debate, because I think it's something important. We all remember how surprised Frida Kahlo's paintings are, because they put in front of the eyes that abortions, blood, are part of life and it is necessary to be able to visualize it and to talk about it normally. In fact, it seems normal to us that an important part of advertising is to ask girls: What do the clouds smell? And, on the other hand, as menstruation has already perfectly explained it to Mrs. Churches who goes from puberty to an important age, not only girls are those who have to be advertising claims, and on the other hand what they are. Today they can dedicate themselves, when they're watching television, how many ads and how many ads there are about compresses, tampax, and just because it's a business we don't think of what it means daily spending for women, not just for girls, for all women. And that tax recording through IV means that inequalities are becoming more and more unequal. Indeed, a product of first necessity – I think it was perfectly explained by Mrs Iglesias and also by Mrs Solla – it is incomprehensible that it had increased to 10%, that rise decreed by Law 37/1992. The fact is that it has already been discussed in various committees, mainly in the Committee on Economic Affairs on VAT and all products, but today this debate that we are giving is a debate I would say markedly feminist, and I think it is good that there are markedly feminist debates in this House and that they are thus collected in the Journal of Sessions. Because what Mrs Iglesias is telling us is whether there is a tax machismo. Well, it's an important subject for debate. Yesterday we were talking about social economy, and there is a whole branch of the economy, which is the feminist economy, which analyses the economy from the perspective of the logic of care, from the perspective of another way of getting closer to the reality of people, and I think this is a debate that starts, which is new in the House, and to what we want to contribute, of course, with our positive vote. That is to say, it goes a clear affirmative vote on this initiative, not only as far as it means the fall of the IVE to 4%, but also as well as that second point which is established as a possibility that what is repeated is returned to women through the promotion of projects for women, which is also a novice idea and that we do ourselves to continue working on it. I no longer want to dwell on something that I think for all and also for all that we are in this House is an obvious thing, which is that, in fact, there are issues that should be eliminated from the EVV. Possibly the VAT is the most unequal tax suffered by citizenship. That women in the first-needed products of their intimate hygiene have an IVE of 10% we coincided with Mrs Iglesias, which is a tax machismo that must be reviewed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Mr González Santín has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u69	Thank you, President. Today we are debating here an initiative by the Joint Group in which it is requested that a 10% to 4% VAT discount be negotiated with the Government of the State. So, what I understand, Mrs. Sueiro, is that what you're asking here is that the debate is opened and you start talking about why the feminine toiletries have to pay for IVE. I'm here today as a tenant spokesman, it seems something obvious, isn't it? Because what you're asking is that the tax type of a common tax such as VAT passes on a certain type of products from 10% to 4%. But they're going to allow me not to talk about farm here today, and they're going to let me talk little or almost nothing about IVE. I believe that this initiative – I have been corrected, if not, Mrs. Suero later – does not speak of it, speaks of other things; talks of principles, talks of rights, talks of justice, and why not say so? He also talks about inequality. [[Applause]] And why do I say this? Because this is a discriminatory tax, it discriminates about 50% of the population. It's a tax that discriminates 50% of citizens, it's a tax that discriminates by sex, it's a tax that discriminates women by being women. I'd say this is a tax that has a hidden passive subject. And what is this hidden passive subject? To be a woman, because she records being a woman, and I think this, ladies and gentlemen, is intolerable. When I was studying farm, I was told that taxes recorded economic capacity. And for what? To derive income from those who had the most and give it in the form of public services to those who had the least, to equal society. This tax doesn't do this, it does the opposite. On this subject, Mrs Sueiro, we speak a lot, not only in the European Union, but also outside, we are not original. Look, there is a debate in the European Union in all countries. In Germany, we are debating today lowering this 19% tax – which you have to lower – and putting it to a smaller guy. In France – you said – they just got three months ago from 20% to 5.5%. The French prime minister himself, Mr. Vals, said in an interview: "It is common sense to lower this imposition." I agree with Mr. Vals, what happens is that they already know what he says: common sense is often less common than all senses. In England, they have 5% of these products, and they're fighting for the zero type. The minister himself, Mr. Cameron, who did the initiative, sent the money collected for social projects to support women, just as he asked in point 2 of his initiative. I'm aware that there's a principle of non-impacting income and expenses, but I'm also aware that this initiative puts this point 2, so what you're trying to get to is what you have to get to, which is the zero tax type. Outside the European Union this is also being debated, you know it well. In Australia, the Government is studying suppressing VAT in these products. In the United States there are five states where it is already suppressed, and in a state as conservative as Utah's is in the process of suppression. President Obama himself said in a statement that he had no idea why women's hygiene products had taxes. I don't know why they've taxed these products, either. And you've already said that Canada has already eliminated it. That's why, Mr. Sueiro, the Socialist Party will support this initiative, but it will allow me a small license. I wanted to tell you that we can't have a tax like this in the European Union, a tax that discriminates and that makes no difference between 21% and 10%, and, Mrs. Sueiro, no 4%, we have to go to a zero guy. I am also aware that there is a directive in the European Union that prohibits this tax rate from falling below 5%, I know. But I also tell you that I know that we must rebel against injustice, that we must also rebel against taxes that are unfair and discriminatory, like this one, and I think we must rebel and we must fight where we must fight, which is, at this moment, in the European Union. This, Mrs. Sueiro, is not – and I tell you honestly – a struggle of women, this is a struggle of society. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u70	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Macías has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies. Today the Joint Parliamentary Group brings to this House a non-legislative proposal on the EVI of women's intimate hygiene products. The first thing that calls for opposition in your proposal is that we urge the Galician Union from here to negotiate with the Central Government a 4% discount on the EVV of this product. Before entering the matter itself, I think that we should make a point and clarify that in this case we must put aside a little demagogy or the populist character that arouses or can trigger such initiatives, since we agree that it is a matter of a sensitive nature to us, women, but we must deal with it from the rigor, from the perspective that you, the Joint Group, propose, which is that of the tax perspective. First of all, as you know, VAT is a state tax; it is one of the main drivers of the tax system both at national and at European level. As such, this tax is subject to compliance with common rules and directives within the framework of the Union and is to be complied with by all Member States. The scope of the different types of engravings is therefore not solely the competence of the State. In this sense, the European Directive lays down rules on the harmonisation of VAT, which include a list of goods and services which may be affected by this reduced type and on which the products of intimate female hygiene are already found. However, in your initiative you can read that you propose a disharmonization of this type of VE in these products from a gender perspective; a theory that I personally do not share, because, on the one hand, would endanger the establishment and functioning of the so-called internal market, and on the other, because it affects many products, not only women and many more products, and not only those you refer to in your initiative. However, by making it a little more fencapé on this subject, I also have to tell you that it's clearly demonstrated that a reduction in the types of VAT is not the best way to promote the consumption of certain goods and services.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u72	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u73	If you let me finish, I might as well explain. Although it is true that in the case we are dealing with this tax, what we are looking for is not a change in consumer behavior habits, why is it not looking for a change in these areas? [[Murmurs.]] Because they're not going to buy according to the price, but according to their needs. Therefore, the impact of a reduction of this type of stroke on consumer prices will never be total, always – it is demonstrated – is scarce and also of a temporal nature. But by focusing on the subject of mere taxation, as I said at the outset, changing the economic mechanism based on the assumptions that the reduction in VAT would entail a decrease in prices and that this would become a better possibility of access to supply is not clearly demonstrated. Anyway, the content of this and doing a common sense exercise, it is necessary to take into account that these products are already recorded to a small type. By the way, I must remind you, as you said, Mrs Iglesias, that they have been filmed to this guy reduced since the year 2002, which, by the way, this downgrad... has fallen from the general VAT in 2002... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have the floor. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u75	Yes. I just want to give you a data, which I think Mrs. Iglesias had it wrong, because these women's hygiene products in 2002 were recorded to a general tax type, which at that time was 16%. In 2002, he was brought down to a tax rate reduced by a People's Party government. True, with Mr. Aznar's government, it went from 16% then to 7%. [[Applause]] It's true that now 7% has risen to 10%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u76	Mrs. Hide, I remind you you have two calls to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u77	...it's true that it went up three points for various economic reasons, such as the crisis and the rest of it, which made several points rise in various types of VAT taxes. Anyway, as I don't have much time left, I'm going to move on to the second part of your proposal, which talks about allocating the money of these products to social projects to support women. You know that these are words that remain very well at the initiative; it is a phrase that remains very pretty, but that cannot be done because the General Budget Law points out that the resources of the State cannot be affected for any given purpose and cannot play a subsidised or helpful role in any sector, whatever its scope or nature. However, despite this negative connotation which gave my intervention, in the subsequent vote we will ask for a point vote, because we understand and agree at its first point, that this VAT could be reduced from 10% to 4%, but we are not in favour of the second, in carrying out the collection by these taxes of social projects for support to women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the initiative's own group, Mrs Iglesias, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thanks a lot to the BNG, AGE, and PSOE groups. I want to say that I very much liked your speeches and that I am very grateful, by the PSOE deputy, that it was a man who had taken a stand on this issue, because that shows us that we are walking towards a society where the defence of rights is a common defence. On the other hand, I would like to insist that private people are political and that in this case they are women's private. With regard to the speech of the honourable Member of the People's Party, I am very sorry that the People's Party had chosen a new woman to do that kind of intervention. From my feminist perspective of understanding the world, I am very sorry for this fact, and I am very sorry that this Member is one of Mr Baltar's defence signatories, President of the House of Ourenses... Madam President, please! [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u80	That's the point, Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u81	No, no, I'm hanging around.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u83	He's one of the Signers of the City of Ourense, of the People's Party, who stood in defense of the President of the House of Ourense, supposedly a sexual harasser. And I'm very sorry that this translates and that this shows the thought of a party that says it defends women's rights. And who do they choose? A young girl, and a little girl who's given a text, who doesn't even know what she's reading... because she gives false data and arguments that aren't supported. [[Murmurs.]] I would like to thank the People's Party for respecting the turn of this honourable Member who is defending women's rights in this Chamber and who is being supported by the entire opposition... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u84	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u85	...and throughout the society in which it belongs to its LNP brought into this Chamber today. With regard to point-by-point voting, if they let me continue... that they don't call that bench and yet they call this one when they do the same thing. That also tells us the role that the Bureau of this Parliament plays, which is not equal, which is not... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u86	Please finish, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u87	I just got interrupted. I have 24 seconds left. I have to position – if they let me, will they leave me? – with regard to the point vote. I will accept the point vote because I am in favour of the rights of all citizens and, in particular, of women. And if the vote is shared, it is decided that the VAT is lowered, because I accept. [[Murmurs.]] But that my goal is zero, and funding for the fight against violence against women increases. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u88	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Anyway, I would like you to recognize that all women in this House, ladies and gentlemen, have the same rights and capacities to act as spokespersons. [[Murmurs.]] We continue with the next non-law proposition... silence, please! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue with the next non-law proposition... Mr. Fajardo, you have a call to order. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I don't want to give you another call. [[Murmurs.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and six other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in connection with the procedures for the inclusion of the Calixtino Codex in the UNESCO World Memory Record
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u89	This initiative was amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u90	To formulate the non-law proposal, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u91	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Codexes are works of religious character illustrated with didactic drawings that sought to help understand sacred texts, but which, over time, have also acquired an important symbolic value and transmission of the origins of our culture. In the first half of the 12th century, Diego Gelmírez, the first archbishop of Santiago de Compostela, ordered a group of theologians and illustrators to compile James, the Book of James; a compilation that received the nickname of "Calixtino" for the interest of his true authors in simulating that his editor was Pope Calixto II, great benefactor of the Church of Santiago. Raised to the symbol and reason category of the cathedral and its own Compostela this codex was preserved for eight centuries in the cathedral, marked the pattern of worship and was the first guide of the medieval pilgrim. This bibliographical jewel is structured in five books and two appendices, with hymns and poems with its corresponding musical annotation. The first of these books, dedicated to liturgy, collects masses, homilies, sermons, songs, blessings and stories about Santiago's passion. The second book compiles twenty-two miracles of the Apostle in various places of pilgrimage. The third book removes the transfer of the Apostle's body from Jerusalem to Iria Flavia and his subsequent transfer to Compostela. The fourth book narrates in literary key the adventures of Carlomagno in Spain. And the fifth book describes the roads, becoming a kind of guide to the Jacobean routes where the shrines, the people, the meals and even the customs of the places through the paths of pilgrimage to Santiago are mentioned. These five books constitute a treasure of Greek culture with incalculable value; an artistic, literary and also musical work, as it is crowned with the most important polyphonic series of the medium: twenty-two polyphonic works belonging to the first stage of European polyphony, a stage which in musicology is known as the Ars ancient. Before Master Matthew gazed at the Portico of Glory the twenty-four elders of the Apocalypse with his varied instruments was already witnessed in the Codex the acting presence of the musicians in those incomparable vigils of the cathedral. The Codex is an artistic work, literary, musical and, why not?, also identity; a transcendental manuscript, exceptional and fulcral, a very notable piece of our own history that is part of the cultural heritage of Galicia and therefore deserves the highest recognition and international dissemination. From the Popular Parliamentary Group, we believe that the time has come to deepen on the assessment of this important piece of literature not only in Galicia and in the whole state but also in the world. With this intention we present today this non-law proposal, which ultimately aims to achieve the inclusion of the Calixtino Code in UNESCO's World Memory Register. Following UNESCO's definition, the World Memory is the collective and documented memory of the peoples of the world, their documentary heritage, which represents a large part of the world's cultural heritage. This memory allows us to trace the evolution of the thought, the discoveries and the achievements of human society. This is about the legacy of the past to the present and future world community. The World Memory program was born in 1992 with a growing awareness of the deplorable state of record heritage conservation and poor access to this heritage in different parts of the world. UNESCO, through the World Memory program, determines the documentary heritage of international, regional and national importance by entering these documents into a register and facilitating their preservation and democratic access and without discrimination to these heritage jewels. But, in addition, this programme organizes campaigns to raise awareness about the documentary heritage and to alert public authorities, citizens and business and commercial sectors about the need for conservation and the value of this heritage. In this way, the World Memory program articulates around the achievement of three fundamental objectives: to facilitate the preservation of the world's documentary heritage through the most appropriate techniques; to enable universal access to the documentary heritage, ensuring respect for the different cultural sensibilities and democratization of a heritage of universal interest; and to create a greater awareness around the world of the existence and importance of the documentary heritage as an indispensable tool for providing the critical capacity of society. To achieve these three objectives, the program is developed through five strategies: identification of the documentary heritage, awareness of the importance of the documentary heritage and the need to preserve it and give access to it, the momentum to projects to preserve the documentary heritage, the promotion of the use of new technologies between the custodial institutions with the aim of precisely increasing access to the documentary heritage they administer and also the need to continue to develop the structure of the program in national, regional and international committees to achieve greater efficiency and management capacity of the documents included in this log. In the same way as the UNESCO World Heritage List, the World Memory program is based on the assumption that some elements, collections or backgrounds of the documentary heritage are part of the world heritage. It is considered that the importance of these documents transcends the limits of time and culture, so that they must be preserved for the present and future generations and made available to all the peoples of the world. Therefore, the foundational premise of the World Memory program is that the world's documentary heritage belongs to everyone, it must be fully preserved and protected for all, and, with due respect to cultural habits and practices, it must be accessible to everyone permanently and without obstacles. Given the setting and objectives of UNESCO's World Memory Program, it seems fair that a work like the Calixtino Codex becomes part of this log. And that's why the opportunity to present to the House a non-law proposal to urge the Galician Council to provide contacts with political, social and cultural institutions and organizations that support and strengthen the procedures to be carried out to achieve the inclusion of the Calixtino Codex in UNESCO's World Memory Record. With this initiative, we intend to strengthen the agreement taken by the Xacobeo Council last December 13, 2015 to process before UNESCO the inclusion of the Calixtino Codex in this register as one of the most important testimonies of the European culture of the Middle Ages and also for its decisive contribution to strengthening the role of Santiago de Compostela as a goal of pilgrimage. We understand that it is our duty as public representatives to contribute to adding support and support to an initiative that will benefit our culture, our cultural heritage and the empowerment of the phenomenon of pilgrimages to Santiago de Compostela. Acquiring this consideration would give the Calixtino Codex special protection and recognition, not only for its high historical value in cultural contexts of origin, but also for its importance and significance for the history of humanity. In all the above, we invite all groups of this House to join this non-law proposition and to provide a unanimous support for an initiative that pursues, through the inclusion of the Calixtine Codex in the World Memory Record, of UNESCO, to signify and highlight a work that possesses a triple value: of a band, an artistic value, manifested in its illustrations and in the very antiquity of the manuscript; an undeniable historical value, which materializes through the thorough study of music and the legends of the 12th century; and an identity cultural value and, ultimately, symbolic to Galicia, to Santiago de Compostela and to the thousands of pilgrims that each year make the Way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u92	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, for the defence of the amendment, Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. Today the People's Group brings us to this House an initiative in which basically what is asked of the Board is that it "proper contacts with political institutions and organizations to support and strengthen the procedures to be carried out to achieve the inclusion of the Calixtino Codex in UNESCO's World Memory Record." I have to start by saying that our group has nothing against this being done; it's more, we consider the Codex – just like other elements of our bibliographic heritage – to be a vertebral part of the memory of this country. They have a very important documentary and historical value when it comes to rescuing and recovering our memory and what we have been collectively as a people in the past. But we also have some considerations to do about it. The first is that you presented with absolute naturality that Parliament here has only to be here to refer to what has already begun. And we say that there is a problem when we conceptualize the role of the secondary Parliament or as an appendix to the Government itself. Moreover, it would be more logical than before taking this initiative to the Xacobeo Council because it could be discussed earlier in Parliament, and that even when that proposal is made in that council it is already in the hands of Parliament as a whole. Because this, from a political and symbolic point of view, if it were an anecdote, would not matter, but it denotes the role of appendice with which the People's Party conceives the role that the Parliament of Galicia has to play, which, according to the current framework, would be the country's first institution, but clearly that is not the role and relevance that you want to give it. And even we see how the initiative itself is quite light, because if after these months the Government has not even begun contacts to support that initiative, it means that it is not part of the priorities either, because they go more than two months since this was approved in the plenary of the Xacobeo Council itself. So there is a first question, and we are going to support that this can be adopted in this House, too, we must express in this House that this procedure does not seem logical to us. At the same time, we want to take advantage of some problems or some empty ones that didn't mention PP intervention. Indeed, the Calixtino Codex is a jewel of our bibliographic heritage, but, unfortunately, it had to happen an incident, as was its theft, to put it in public light, so that we had information about the deprotection that has our bibliographic heritage, and in particular about the dislocation that exists in the field, in this case of the Santiago de Compostela Cathedral, which has the ownership of these valuable documents and which does not even have the minimum standards, when it comes to bibliographic heritage, where a part of this country's history is collected and also of the history of humanity. It must be remembered in that sense that we claim – and we do it here again – and we say that it does not seem logical to us that the Galician Union had not applied the Heritage Law, because the Heritage Act states that one of the obligations that any holder of a property that integrates our cultural heritage – in this case our bibliographic heritage – is the first obligation it has, is that of preservation and custody of that document. And we saw how there was an absolute non-application of the precepts of the law and how the Catholic Church was pardoned from opening a file to actually see that it was what had failed and what was also the responsibility of the Church in that respect. So what we ask here is that the law be applied to the Catholic Church, just as it would be done to any other Greek or Greek, because the law has to be the same for all of us, and the Church cannot be above the laws that are passed in this Parliament. We also felt important – and we would like in that sense that there could be a transaction with some of the points of this amendment – that we had a report on which are all the measures of protection, security and conservation of all the goods that the Catholic Church has at the moment. We consider that for the future... only in the Cathedral of Santiago – imaginen – there are 11,000 medieval documents, there are documents that have such a relevant value as can be the Codex itself, as are the tombstones, as is History to compose it. I mean, there's a value deposited there that's not a value owned by the Church, as much as from a legal point of view, but that's part of our country's history. And we wanted all of this to be able to know how it is and that there are effective measures to protect it. We believe that it would also be interesting if individualized declarations of these books were made as goods of cultural interest, because that would establish or give us more instruments for their protection than they already have for their historical value. And finally, we also believe that it would be important for us to review that agreement between the Church and the Council of Galicia in relation to the protection of the heritage of the Catholic Church, because here we should not only speak of the Codex but of much of the heritage of the Church which is falling to pieces, and we see that this Commission has not fulfilled the role it should have to have, which was to really coordinate and ensure a good state of conservation, but that there simply the Union works as a transmission belt of the Church in our country, and we think that these are not equal relationships but of subordination. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u95	Thank you very much, President. I'm not going to repeat here the value of the Calixtino Codex, already exposed by the previous two interveners and also known by all of them. So I'm going to focus on my position on the PNL presented by the People's Party. That the Calixtino Codex is declared Memory of UNESCO's World, I think it's all right, but the Calixtino Codex is private property and, unfortunately, it has taken importance or was known by citizenship above all for the disappearance and theft of what was the object, which has left the discovery of the deprotection and lack of control of the universal and extraordinary heritage of the goods under the Catholic Church. We are before an organization that constantly receives – receives, receives... – which has privileges – enormous privileges of state and administrations – and to which nothing is required in return. The amount of public money that the Cathedral of Santiago receives for its conservation and valuation seems to me to be much more of a priority than measures that guarantee the security, preservation and protection of the Codex; particularly of the Codex, but also of the rest of the assets. Well, to be completely sincere, what I would ask is that the Church gives the Greek Administration the Codex in gratitude – by the Church – to the efforts that the whole society makes to preserve its heritage and given the little importance that the Codex deserves, demonstrated by how its theft occurred and that it did not count on any of the preventions demanded to such a document. I will vote in favour of this initiative, but I would be much more pleased to vote in favour of accepting the amendment of the BNG, since it does not remain on the surface and in mere recognition but extends the defence and protection of the Codex and the rest of the heritage of the Catholic Church, while it demands responsibilities for a distasteful that could end up in tragedy with the irreparable loss or disappearance of a jewel of the heritage of humanity. So, without it being the cause of precedent, without feeling precedent, this People's Party initiative will count on my support. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u96	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u97	Good morning to all and to all. The Codex Calixtinus, the Calixtino Codex – also known as Liber Sancti Jamesi – is said here, is one of the most fundamental pieces of our medieval identity, since the Middle Ages, of our culture; it is an invaluable document. And that's why we have to wait until when an initiative is brought, we have to try to document it much more; that is, there are things, logically, that are certainly given from digital encyclopedias: the codes are works of a religious nature. It's not true, which is the word "codex" to refer to the history of the book, to the history of the book by phases: before it was the volumein in papyrus and then we passed to the codex, against the action of the caudex, of the bark of the tree, of the trunk of the tree, and through it the nails were made by fasciculation and we had our codex there. I mean, it's not true that they're really religious, even if they started through the Bible. From the fourth after Christ was when they generalized, and from there comes our story of the book and the history of writing; that is, there is at all. The Codex Calixtinus should, first of all, consider why until the electrician actually stole it, it was not known by the Greek society. That is to say, it shows what is happening not only with Codex Calixtinus, but with all of Galicia's documentary bibliographic heritage, which is fundamentally ignored by virtually all citizenship, especially what is within ecclesiastical and religious institutions. And when we talk about the Codex Calixtinus, we have to understand it as a whole; that is, we can't only talk about the piece we keep in the Cathedral of Santiago, but also about the manuscript in Salamanca, because, logically, they're a unitary set from the phylological point of view and from the cultural point of view. And above all, if it had disappeared when the electrician stole the Liber Sancti Iacobi, because we would only have Salamanca's copy to access precisely that past, that huge piece of our culture. The Liber pilgrimageii and Turpin's, books IV and V, are essentially those that have encouraged all this that, since the twenty-first century and since Mr Fraga, the People's Party stands as the great tourism of Galicia, which is the Way of Santiago, through the first part of the Turpin and the book V. And, therefore, what should be expected is that the Union of Galicia had protected by itself all the cultural, historical, architectural, anthropological heritage of our society and not the one that appears in a record of the Memory of the World to carry out that protection. We are not against that in the record of the World Memory, but what is also surprising is that one is observed between 1993 and 2015 and that in each year two proposals are carried out for each country, because they are only included in the Chapters of Santa Fe, the Treaty of Tordesillas, the Book of the Remembrance Union, of 1448; the Decrees, of León, of 1188; or the Cheese Mission to Europe, which is agreed with Japan. I mean, we believe that the Spanish State itself and Galicia itself have much more heritage worthy of being known as the Memory of the World; there is much more, of course. So we're going to support the initiative because we understand that we have to give that recognition and that leap, but of course, without forgetting and without obvious responsibility that the Galician Board has to protect the heritage and above all do everything possible to make that codification record... let's remember that there are more than 320 manuscripts in Santiago Cathedral itself, and undoubtedly all of them very important, because each piece is unique, it's a moment in this country's cultural history. So, Miranda's Breviary, which appears in the Cathedral of Santiago, is equally important, and the copies of History composel, the handwritten copies of Father Sarmiento... that is, everything deserves an important consideration, and hence it is necessary to establish that space for recognition as assets of cultural interest of all the pieces that have that singularity for our cultural history, for our heritage and for our identity and history as people. That's the only way we'll be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u98	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u99	...to do this outreach work, which is precisely what is missing and what causes that when an electrician steals the money in the brush and steals a manuscript, because suddenly the citizenry finds out and makes films to reveal a heritage that should have been known for a long time before and not be the only thing of specialists, medieval studies and scholars of our culture. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u100	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u101	Thank you, President. Today we are debating here an initiative by the House's majority group to ask the Galician Council to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Calixtino Codex is included in the World Memory Record, something that has already been agreed on last December by the plenary of the Xacobeo Council. The Liber Sancti Ibai, known as Codex Calixtino, as you know, is the compilation of James, the Book of Santiago, ordered to a group of theologians and illustrators there by 1122 to 1124 by Diego Gelmírez, the first archbishop of Santiago. And he gets Calixtino's name for the interest of his true actors in simulating that his editor was Pope Calixt II. The Codex consists of five books, the most well-known V, as a sort of guide to the Jacobean routes, to which other texts and appendices are added later until the end of the 12th century. The World Memory program is one of three UNESCO initiatives aimed at increasing the protection and awareness of the world's cultural heritage, in particular, dedicated to protecting the world's documentary heritage. Documents that are recognized with this level of protection are entered in the World Memory log. In Spain there are, among others – as the spokesperson for AGE well said – the Capitals of Santa Fe and the Treaty of Tordesillas. It seems to the Socialist Group to support the nomination of the Codex, since we are talking about one of the most important witnesses to the European culture of the Middle Ages, and also about its contribution to strengthening the role of Santiago de Compostela as the goal of the pilgrimage. But since we're talking about the Codex, we have to remember that it became famous when it was removed from the safe of the Cathedral of Santiago, and while it was speculated with the theft by professional and specialized thieves, and even with its possible exit of the country, it turns out that it rested in a garage of neighbor Milladoiro. But I bring this fact here as it has served to manifest the great disprotection to which it is subjected much of the ecclesiastical heritage in Galicia, which it seems to represent, between 75% and 80% of the entire heritage of the Autonomous Community of Galicia; it is enough to say that Galicia has 7,679 singular religious buildings. The theft of the Codex revealed the security problems of the ecclesiastical heritage, in many cases due to lack of means, which causes not only deterioration, but also theft of the parts themselves. And not only this, but after the arrest of the burglar of the Codex, other objects appeared in his power that the Church didn't even know they had disappeared, which is why Galician superior prosecutor Carlos Varela proposed the creation of a security plan to protect ecclesiastical heritage goods, in addition urging the Archbishop to sign a protocol together with the Government Delegation and the Galician Union, and which only achieved the accession of the Astorga Bishop. The Church was also urged to develop its record of goods, expressing the need to make an inventory of the goods because it was essential for its protection and preservation, since the recovery of a subtracted work is more likely to be the faster its communication and the more complete the information available. But we have to say that nothing has advanced since then, and during this time there has been thefts in different temples and other ecclesiastical real estates and sometimes with serious consequences. Last year Mr Varela again linked that failure of involvement with personalism on the part of the Church, and we even witnessed an absolute failure of commitment when the Archbishop justified his position by stating that he would join the protocol called "Safe Church" when he had a viable cost to his ark. The Council of Galicia issued the matter last year announcing that with the new Heritage Law – which we will begin to debate in this House in the near future – there will be a regulation that regulates the relations between the Union and the Catholic Church, and therefore implicitly acknowledges not only the abandonment of ecclesiastical goods, but also that nothing has been made in this direction in recent years. And you take it out of your mind that the new law will be the solution for everything, when the only thing that changes with respect to the law in force is that the current text is added to it that it will develop with the position and functions of the Joint Church-Junta Commission, which is always another gift to the sun. We are once again faced with a problem of will and capacity; it is not a problem of policy, as we have told you, but of development. What needs to be done is to develop article 5 of the current law, which states that the Catholic Church will ensure the protection, conservation and dissemination of the heritage, working with the Administration, which is the same as we always tell you when we talk about the abandonment of the Greek heritage: that there is also a lack of will and capacity, as demonstrated in the state where many of the goods already enjoyed are protected as goods of cultural interest and even in the minute budget shares devoted to the protection and dissemination of our country's heritage. That's why, even if we support this initiative, we have once again to express the grave situation in which the heritage is found, both ecclesiastical and what it is not, and that it does not deal with initiatives like this, which are very well and are very effective, but which hide a sad reality, which is the worrying state of conservation and protection of the Greek heritage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. Author group of the initiative, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u103	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank what I believe will be a unanimous support for this initiative, because, as I said in my initial speech, of course, a document such as the Calixtino Code needs and deserves this unanimity and this favourable position of the House towards this declaration, or support this declaration, of Memory of the World, of UNESCO. I would like to comment on a number of questions from the different interventions of the groups that proved to be slightly appealing to me. First of all, by going in reverse order to how these interventions took place, Mr. Vázquez, you have essentially focused your intervention on the need to develop a law of heritage, of cultural heritage of Galicia, with sufficient cautions for the preservation of all this type of documentary heritage or of artistic heritage as well. Obviously, that can be done in the process of tabling the Law of Cultural Heritage, of which you are part. Therefore, in the proper functioning of the House and in the usual functioning of the legislative process, we expect their arrivals to be evaluated and incorporated into that legislative text. Obviously, we are one of the reasons why we betrayed this proposal was precisely to equip the value of the Calixtino Codex, which is something that I finally miss in the interventions of the groups, because in many of the interventions it was said precisely that, unfortunately, until the moment of the theft of the Calixtino Codex, this figure was not known by most of the Greek society and, curiously, it was referring to a fact that, the basis of repetition, was what was intended to become central fact in the interventions of the opposition groups. We, of course, in our intervention do not speak at any time of this fact because we understand that the substantive value of the Codex itself is what deserves to be dignified, that is what deserves to be collected on this initiative. So I would also like to point out that we understand that the amendment tabled by BNG is an amendment which, in some ways, would denaturalize the spirit of this proposal. The spirit of this proposal is very clear: it is simply to support this candidacy of the Calixtino Codex for the UNESCO World Memory Record. Of the other things we can talk about; we can talk about and we can bring initiatives to this House precisely to look for and perhaps to carry out some of the proposals that are set out in this amendment, but we understand from now on that in this particular case it is necessary to value that substance of the Calixtine Code, that support for this inclusion in the UNESCO World Memory Record. Just to finish, I want to point out that it was also said that it was a pity that since this UNESCO Memory Record existed in 1993 it had not been tried to put the Calixtino Code into this log until today. I believe that this is a fact that can point out to all of us here, because, of course, it was at the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group that we are currently debating and talking about in this House of the Calixtine Codex and, precisely, its substantive value and not of incidental causes. And in that sense, I think that the other groups, when they complain that, precisely, this is not worth it, what they should do is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u105	...by the way, I've brought initiatives on this line to this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u107	...and not how we had to do it today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u108	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the recommendations reflected in the last report of the Committee of Experts on the European Charter of Regional or Minority in relation to the use of the language in the various areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u109	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Burgo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. As you know, the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages is a treaty promoted by the Council of Europe which aims to protect these languages and the citizens who speak them. Spain signed this letter in 2001 and was then ratified by the German Parliament. The Council of Europe periodically sends a series of experts from the various countries which have committed themselves to this letter, which carry out an assessment of the level of compliance of commitments acquired by the different states, and in addition to the level of compliance in various fields: education, justice, administrative services, public services, media, cultural activities and services, using both data provided by different governments and on-the-spot visits. In January of this year, the Fourth Report was published by the experts who analyse compliance with the European Charter. And once again, for the second time, this report of the Council of Europe once again alerts itself to the negative effects of the language policy of the Union on the linguistic rights of citizens, on the rights to use language, our language, the Greek, in all areas of life. It is a detailed report which is then summarized in a series of recommendations and which must be carefully read. I don't think that Junta should at any time take these recommendations lightly to the diagnosis of this report, it should not disregard, as it often does, this opinion, because there are very negative aspects to which I want to tell you that they are not observed either in Catalonia or in the Basque Country. I mean, here's a far smaller compliance with the Charter than it's being reflected in Catalonia or the Basque Country. As I told them, this report addresses multiple aspects of impulse, language use, beginning with a fundamental aspect, which is the language in the teaching process; an element that is not the only important element for the drive and normalization of our language, but is absolutely vital. And in this aspect of education there is a clear censorship of the Council of Europe to the actions of the Greek Government again for the implantation and the perverse effects of Decree 79/2010, called – ill-called – of plurilingualism. The Council of Europe, the experts – and I quote – consider that the use of Greek in teaching is being reduced to a third. They consider it absolutely negative that subjects such as mathematics, physics or chemistry cannot be imparted in English and, in short, they consider that a gradual reduction in the presence of Welsh is being made at all levels of education: children, primary, secondary." And this is in absolute contradiction to the commitments made by the Spanish and German authorities, who have to do and have the obligation to make of the Greek the predominant language of teaching. On the other hand, what is being done is quite the opposite, gradually reducing that presence of the Greek. All by a decree, this Decree 79/2010, which is currently only defended by the People's Party, which is in extreme loneliness in defending this decree, in a regulatory change that has very pernicious effects on our language. And that we don't just say it in Galicia, but the Council of Europe says it too. A decree that was simply promulgated – and this is very serious – to win a handful of votes, breaking all the consensus that was present in the normalization of our language. That consensus was broken by the People's Party. There's only the People's Party in the defense of this decree. I remind you – against what the Counsellor has stated, attempting to justify the unjustifiable, which said that this decree was socially endorsed – to their lords who are, have been and continue to be against the application of this decree: the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the Galician School Council, the Sectoral Bureau of Education, all trade unions, the Confapa, all political parties and universities, the Pedagogic Renewal Movement, the Association of Workers for Linguistic Standardization, the Consultative Council...; all, the entire social, civic and political body of this country, and now the Council of Europe. The consequences are clear: at present only 5% of children's centres in the population of more than 50,000 inhabitants use mostly Greek in teaching, and among those who use it in a witness manner and do not use it at all we have reached 75% of children's centers. This means that most of the students don't have a single notion, or the least notion, of Greek when the Primara comes, and this, logically, is subsequently dragged to all levels of education and, of course, to life in oral and written use, in everyday use of these children, who haven't learned from children. It is not only in education, which is the most certainly important part, but also in the report of the Council of Europe censures politics in this case of the Government of Spain, but also in the Council of Galicia regarding the use of Greek in justice, because it claims to be taxed that all the rights of the Galicians are not being defended in this area, as in health, and gives a number of recommendations for this manifest failure – and so they say, a breach of the obligations of the Galician Union – be corrected, such as increasing the knowledge of the workers of justice about Greek, using methods as computer programs that allow the use of Galician and others. It's the same as with health care. They note that there is no total defence of linguistic rights in the administration of public services both in the Administration of the State... I remind your lordships of a case – which also cites the report – which was considered very serious, as was the non-acceptance by the Ministry of Education of titles of the Greek universities issued in German, and before what the Board did absolutely nothing. The report clearly censures the Government of Galicia for not defending the rights of the Greek language against the Central Administration. But also in the application or use of Welsh in the local and autonomous administration, which says it would have to be bigger than it is. He affirms and knows how one third of the city's normalization services have disappeared from the desire and disinterest of the Galician Union, in addition to a total reduction in budgets devoted to this aspect, just like a decrease – I remember that has been said many times in this Chamber, but I remember – since 2009, a cut of 70% – 70 % nothing more and nothing less – for language normalization policies. It also cites how the number, the percentage, of Greeks who use this language in everyday life is being reduced and who are walking towards a monolingualism in Spanish, honourable Members. That's what the policy of the Galician Union is achieving; it's not that harmonious and kind bilingualism of what Mr. Feijóo was talking about; he's walking towards a monolingualism in Spanish. From the Socialist Group we believe that we must return to a consensus around our language, that the People's Party must abandon these absolutely negative policies and where it is in an extreme loneliness around our language and that it must enter into a consensus, which it signed in a manifesto a few months ago but which it has not met and which has an essential basis, because we already have the common denominator, we have the basis of consensus, which is the General Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u112	... –completed – of linguistic normalization. Meanwhile, of course, what is needed – and that is what we ask – is that Decree 79/2010 is repealed, that all the recommendations of the report are implemented, not the final recommendations of the report, and that the policies set out in the Linguistic Standardization Plan are implemented. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u114	Thank you, President. This will support this initiative, I will support it with my vote; I would also – most assuredly – the Royal Academy of Galician Language, a scientific institution created in 1906 and which aims at the study and preservation of Greek culture, especially of language. An institution, the Royal Academy of the Galician Language, silenced to almost underground during the dictatorship and that today, at the beginning of the 21st century, by virtue of its language preservation functions, is bound to have to go to the judiciary to enforce the linguistic rights of the spokespersons in respect of the decree of multilingualism. Why? –textual words of the Academy – "For violating the right to education in the Spanish language, for excluding their use in matters of scientific content and for encouraging prejudice against it." Such was never seen after the death of the dictator, unthinkable even at the time of the Government of Don Manuel Fraga. A similar situation of confrontation between the Government of Spain and the institution of the Royal Spanish Academy is inconceivable. They would also vote in favour of this initiative by members of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, which refer to the previous decree as "the decree against the Welsh language". So, if I don't understand correctly, the parliamentary opposition coincides with the criteria of academics and language experts, the only thing that doesn't do is the People's Party and the Government of the People's Party, which, even though it is a majority – and I repeat – does not represent many of its voters on this issue. A large sector of the school community also rejects this decree, as Mrs. Burgo has said very well a moment ago, what happens is that in the school community they are doing what you do when I was a teacher in the years those in the dark long night of stone that we practiced civil disobedience. We practiced civil disobedience, taught the English language classes, and spoke a lot in the English language in schools. Thanks to that, the language was kept. It was one of the causes we helped, which I'm very proud of. It's a time, in addition, of which you don't like to talk to the People's Party, but which has existed and which determines the present. And now the report of the Committee of Experts on the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages comes to an end, and it turns out that this report – which will not be party politics, I say – meets the criteria of the academic authorities of Galicia, the Bureau for Standardization, the ANPA, the teaching unions and the parties to the parliamentary opposition. I think you should think. I am not going to repeat the criticisms contained in the report, which Mrs Burgo has – I repeat – made here magnificently and which have been the source of many parliamentary initiatives that have arrived at the Fourth Commission. But what I'm going to do is invite them to reflect on their parliamentary and political loneliness in which they are today on this subject. Yes, yes, solitude, you're very... nobody wants to make a deal... [[Murmurs.]] They admit the mistakes made in their linguistic policy and withdraw, as the Bureau has said, as society has said and, as the Greeks and the Galicians say, the decree of multilingualism against the Greek language. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u115	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u116	Good morning to all and to all. The truth is that it would be impossible to sum up in five minutes all the disasters caused by the government's determined action against the general interests of all the Greeks and the Greeks: the Mining Plan, the fusion of the boxes, the Land Law, the Angrois disaster and its subsequent management, the scam of public health perpetrated with Vigo's private hospital, the ruin of the dairy sector, the failed Aquaculture Law, etc. It would be difficult, in addition, to highlight one disaster over another, but, of course, from my point of view, no doubt, one of the greatest disasters to which we had the misfortune of watching all the Greeks and the Greeks was the linguistic policy of this government. A real language perpetrated by the Government of Galicia through basically the decree of multilingualism; a decree which, of course, constitutes a real attack on the linguistic rights of our people. That's the reality, and I don't just say it as an alternative left-wing gaga, they don't just say it and each of the opposition groups in this Parliament. Here we are told, all reports of all the minimally independent organisms in our country and outside of it. The Interuniversity Committee on Linguistic Policy was clear on this subject, also the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galego Institute of Statistics, the Council of Culture of Galicia, the Galicia School Council, the Consultative Council, the Sectoral Bureau of Education... as Mrs Burgo said very well, we would not end all morning by quoting the plea of aggravating this rule. The Council of Europe's report on the fulfilment of minority and regional languages as early as 2012 clearly alerted the attack on the decree of multilingualism against the linguistic rights of Galicia and, therefore, its flagrant non-compliance. And again in the 2015 report, the Council of Europe says that the decree of multilingualism is incompatible, absolutely incompatible, with the fulfilment of that European letter, but it also makes very clear the reality of Greek in areas such as justice, health, the media, etc. And, at this point, when I think we've already said it all, when I think it's already clarified sufficiently from a political point of view, but also from a scientific point of view, the absolutely reproducated character of this norm, I wonder: what else has to happen? what else has to happen for the German Government to rectify? He recently did it with the Aquaculture Act, why don't you do it in cultural and linguistic matters? Why not in that way? What has to happen to correct the People's Party at this crucial moment, in addition, for the history of our people, for the history of our country, in which the People's Party aims to go down the corners of which no one wants to talk to it, that no one wants to rule with it? Not even citizens! We've reached that extreme point where even the Citizens support the People's Party. Haven't you thought the People's Party wondered about the reasons for its absolute political solitude? So it has to do with a lot of what we're talking about here: with their inability to dialogue, their inability to listen, their inability to reason and, above all, their inability to serve the general interest. And these are the conditions that a democratic government has to have: listening, dialogue, reasoning, serving the general interest. They are the minimum democratic demands of all citizens. The People's Party shows on this issue, as in many others, an absolutely totalitarian attitude, an absolutely impossive attitude and an anti-democratic attitude. So, from my point of view, from the point of view of the Gaga de Left Alternative, the linguistic policy of the People's Party is absolutely totalitarian, encroaching on fundamental rights and, therefore, it has to rectify whether it wants to be a government with minimum democratic guarantees. Therefore, Alternative Left Galeg will support this initiative. We hope that for once and in such an important matter as this government marches back, Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very grateful that it is the Socialist Group who brings the debate on what is going on with the language situation, and we do so one day that has a very important symbolism, speaking of language. Today is the 179th anniversary of the birth of Rosalía de Castro, and I also wanted, as a small honour to those who have done so much for the dignity of our language, to read a portion of the first poem of Gallegos songs: "Cantre hey, Galicia/ your twelve singers,/ which so asked me/ on the shore of the sea./ Cantarte hey, Galicia/ in the Galicia/ language of evils/ consolation of sorrows./ Mimosa, soave,/ senta, cheese/ charm yes laugh,/ move yes cry./ Which she, no/ so sweet that sing/ so bitter sodas,/ sighs lovers./ Mysteries of the evening,/ whispers of the night:/ chant, hei, Galicia,/ on the shore of the sources./ What so requested,/ what they sent me,/ what song/ what language I will speak." I think it's important to remember it because we're here today at a point that somehow parallels the reasons that led Rosalía to take this step to begin writing and regain writing and the dignity of the Greek language. It broke with the imposition of a few hundred dark centuries of our language and we are here today, not against dark centuries, but against seven dark years of the Government of the People's Party against the Greek language; seven years in which the PP decided to break not only with the agreements that existed in linguistic matters, which was the General Plan of Standardization, but also to break even with legality. And there we have a decree that is a dead decree, a decree that is a zombie right now; that was rejected from the judicial point of view and also from the social point of view because it is a decree that was born against the whole world: it was born against the ANPAs, it was born against the professor, it was born against the Rel Academy, it was born against the Council of Culture, it was born against the General Plan of Standardization of the Greek language. It's obvious that this is the portrait, for a lot of manipulation of reality. As it is also evident that the People's Party did not care, in its crusade against the Greek language, to violate the laws and linguistic rights, and even - I have to say - to act in a way that I do not think to be ethical or respectful of the truth. And I'm going to read another text, which is the Declaration of Unity in favor of the normalization of the Greek language. "The Greek language is the great collective work of the Greek people, which unites and identifies us, which gives us our own voice in a plural and diverse world to which we want to contribute. The Greek is a guarantee of the future, of the dignified and prosperous existence of a people. Language is the best common instrument that we have created all the Greeks, and a need to advance together the generations present in all fields: in culture, in education, in social, economic and political progress. Recent studies by official agencies have once again revealed a worrying social retreat of the language, which shows the need for us to move forward to eradicate old and new prejudices. It is necessary to open a new stage of normality for the Greek language with the involvement of all sectors, jointly affirming our intention to apply, improve and introduce what is necessary to guarantee the right to live in Greek and we will achieve for true equality and real officiality, taking as a starting point the common and broad agreements established in the Law on Linguistic Standardization, the Law on the Use of Greek as Official Language of Galicia by the local authorities and the General Plan on Standardization of the Greek Language of 2004. In the same way, we reaffirm ourselves in the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights, promoted in 1996 by UNESCO, and in the European Charter of Regional and Minorised Languages, promoted by the Council of Europe and ratified by the Spanish State in 2001, and both with unanimous accession of the Greek Parliament." And it was said that the different alternatives manifest their unity in the desire to normalize the Greek language. This document was signed on 15 July 2015. Six months later, we know a new report from the Council of Europe that not only alerts us that the Charter of Languages is being breached, but that it says that the policy of the Council of Europe is going against normalization. The People's Party was welcomed at the signing of this manifesto, but today, when it refuses to amend the decree, to accept the reality of what this report says and not to move anything of its policy against the Greek language, they show that they have no ethics, that they are fraudulent in what they sign, and that they also consider that they can laugh at all of us. I'm sorry to say this because it seems to me a shame that we have a government that only does it is to take care of what unites us most as Greeks and Greeks, which is our language. If they don't want to do it, don't sign it, because it's a shame and a disregard for all the people we're defending the language. In politics, you have to be decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. In fact, we are now discussing the report of the European Charter of Minority Languages, but the debate is not really about that report, but the report is used to insist on the old issue of criticism of the language policies of the Galician Union. By the way, Mrs. Pontón – a recommendation that I make extendable to other spokesmen – a few days ago, Mr. Blanco, Mr. Fernando, spoke of various problems that he had in his political formation and said that there were some things to change, among them, the way to speak. I recommend that you pay attention to Mr. Fernando, a very serious and very prudent man, because you, every time you speak here about the language, leave an echo of war drums which reconciles very badly with the tranquility and serenity of a subject like this and which inspires little to that consensus they ask for. [[Applause]] As far as the report is concerned, of course, as they did in Commission 4a a few days ago, you give a catastrophic vision, an absolutely manic and sessive vision, surely because they are interested in it. And you're interested in it because the goal that they pursue, essentially, is to stir up a social debate about the language that is at present, from a social point of view, pacified, because it is surely the only sign of engagement, the only element of union, that can have between you and that can offer you its militancy. But this catastrophic vision does not at all sympathize with or coincide with a follow-up reading of the report in question; a quiet reading that we even value positively, because we cannot negatively value a report that congratulates the Spanish State on the progress made in this matter in relation to the situation of the previous report of 2013. A report expressly collecting the very high level of protection of minority languages in Spain and Galicia in relation to other European countries, stating clearly and expressly that it is far superior to that medium level of protection. A report that expressly collects, directly related to Galicia, notorious advances in important matters, such as the presence of Welsh in private audiovisual media, the presence of Greek in cultural activities, in trade and economic activities, in the field of teacher training, in local government or in autonomics. And as far as recommendations are concerned, it is true that – as is logical – they insist on the need for further progress in the process of standardization, but the recommendations, which are the guidelines for governments, are far from having that catastrophic character that you paint. On the contrary, they recognize the progress that has been made and insist on the need for further progress in some of the subjects, particularly in justice, in health, in public services, in the extension of minority languages to neighbouring communities and also in education. But there is no catastrophe, what happens is that you use the report – part of what I previously told you – with a very concrete and very determined purpose, which is to resume or insist on the battle against the decree of multilingualism; a battle that has been lost on all fronts where it has been released until now. In the educational field, where he was welcomed peacefully; in the social field, where he did not wake up that collective reaction against which you said you would wake up, rather quite the contrary; in the judicial field, where the very widest of judgments that are going to be repeated in this regard confirm, clearly and meridianly, the essential values of the decree of multilingualism. That's why, Mrs. Burgo, we cannot accept your initiative. And look, there's one thing that's got my attention. They say we're alone. Reminds me once a full of the Vilalba Town Hall, when I was mayor, that a newspaper also entitled "The People's Party is forced to accept municipal budgets alone." Hey, we were 14 concelers and the others were 3! And the ones we were alone were us! And look at one thing, we have what we have is the support of the majority of Galician society in relation to the linguistic policy of Galician Union itself, and we cannot in any way accept the criterion that you want to impose upon us, which is the fundamental criterion of nationalism. [[Applause]] We cannot admit the imposition of languages by public authorities. Or do you want, Mrs. Burgo, to pass here what is going on in Navarre these days, where you are expelling from the kindergartens children for not speaking the Spanish, and if you want to recruit them or place them in different places, segregating because of the language, segregation that here in Galicia is forbidden by the Law of linguistic normalization, which precisely foreseeing this circumstance, if you delete it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u122	Nor can we accept the criterion of immersion, but rather the criterion of balance in language learning and freedom of use, which is largely accepted by the Greek society. Because, ultimately, what nationalism pursues with its plan of linguistic normalization is actually nothing other than to convert the Greek into a unique vehicle language of teaching, to convert the Spanish into a residual language, and ultimately to advance in education as a vehicle of dissemination of nationalism, which we cannot accept.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u124	And a final recommendation. You were talking about specific issues in the report that censored the Galician Union. See, perhaps in the next report, when the expert committee returns here, you can make a very peculiar recommendation from the Socialist Party – and if you don't, someone will. Your secretary general is immersed in legal cases. He's being defended by a lawyer who has his own law firm in Coruña. And, curiously, Mr. Besteiro's lawyer is amusing himself to ask the judge to notify him and to bring to the Spanish the resolutions of the judge and his own file. I think the Secretary of the Socialist Party and you should set a different example. And as for dignity, ladies and gentlemen, we don't want to discriminate against anyone in the defence of language and in the defence of Galician interests. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u125	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank all the parties and parliamentary groups that support this initiative, whether nationalist or Galeguist, as the Socialist Party is, because we do not discriminate, and it turns out that language is what unites us, Mr Baamonde, not what separates us, like you, that separates them from the language. [[Applause]] Mr. Baamunde, you have to have very few arguments to defend your language policy when you have to reach our secretary-general and some resolutions or papers. Do you know how many sentences are given in Galicia in Welsh? Five percent. Do you know that the rights of spokespersons are not guaranteed? If the Spanish rights are guaranteed, you know, Mr. Baamonde? I'll read you something, Mr. Baamonde. So this report is not negative about the language policy of the Union. I would like to read article 8 or paragraph 640, where the experts quote: "The Committee of Experts emphasizes that Decree 79/2010 limits teaching in Galicia to a maximum of 50 per cent, with the ultimate aim of reducing even more to one third. This is clearly contrary to the commitments made by the authorities under the Charter, which requires education predominantly in Galician." That's what the report says. Looks like it's not negative. This doesn't seem to be a censorship of the language policy of the Union. Look, Mr. Baamonde, the only drums of war are yours, who always talks about war, attack, defense. And you are the only ones who attacked the language by breaking a consensus that was reached unanimously in this Parliament in 2004 with the Linguistic Standardization Plan. And they are alone, Mr Baamonde, absolutely, because it turns out that all the cultural institutions, all the education of this country, all the political parties that are not you, are apart. That's not a consensus, that's loneliness, absolute loneliness, so nobody can make any deal or make any deal with you, because you don't know what the word accord is. Greek society knows very well who is in favour and against the fundamental element that unites them; and knows very well that you are the cause that the retreat of the Greek language is very serious in this country. You are the only cause, Mr Baamonde, and that will have to respond to all the cultural, civic and political institutions in this country. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. The motion for a non-law appearing in fifth place was withdrawn, as stated in the letter addressed to the Bureau the interested parties. We therefore debate the sixth place. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece on the decision to extend the extension of the grant of Ence in Lourizán for 60 years in the Pontevedra River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u128	An amendment has been tabled to this non-legislative proposal by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u129	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u130	Good day to all and all. Today morning the president of the board, Núñez Feijóo, was very affected by Mariano Rajoy's statement as an ungrateful person in Pontevedra. It's funny that consternation, when they showed absolutely no concern about the sentence that just fell into Pontevedra's creek, and Galicia in general, with the extension of 60 years of Ence in the creek. It's funny, and it's contrasting with the fact that the Environment Manager, a few days ago in an interview, said that "now the government reigns the joy." In the People's Party joy reigns, they're happy, they applaud... and it turns out they're upset and very upset because they're recriminal and they're reprobate to make such a villainy! Because the Spanish Government which currently presides, in functions, Mariano Rajoy, the Spanish Government of the People's Party, has just granted the Ence an extension for 60 more years, which can be extended by 20 others if a number of conditions are met. It's also true that, if he doesn't do them, they'll only withdraw 10 years from that concession. And with this concession, you can allow the pastry to occupy public estates in Lourizán, in Pontevedra Town Hall. With this concession, the People's Party in the Government of the State allows the pastry to remain in the Pontevedra river practically throughout the 21st century. Frankism has installed, against popular will, the Cence in the Pontevedra River, and remained there for 50 years of the 20th century, and now the People's Party, enthusiastically following the path of frankism, intends to continue there throughout the 21st century. At the BNG we consider this to be a villainy, which is indecent, which is illegitimate and which is, in addition, a cowardly decision made by a government at discount time. And let's look at it in both the background and the shape. In the end, because it is more than demonstrated the enormous prejudice I have assumed and suppose the presence of Cence in the river Pontevedra. An enclave company that did not even exhaust the productive cycle in Galicia; situated in an enviable environmental setting – before its installation, of course – an economically productive stoppage – if it was not Ence, of course –; that conditions the productive model and converts a productive model into nefarious; that conditions the forest model decided by franchise, which converts Galicia into a eucalyptal; an aberrating environmental model, condemned for ecological crime, that virtually no one who is not a hooligan of the People's Party is able to understand how a company of these characteristics is located in full supply; a demolient socio-economic impact because it prevents the creation of employment in the region in primary sectors, destroys natural resources, prevents the installation of clean businesses, drags tourism, trade, and does not create jobs, destroys more jobs than it creates; and represents sector 28 in the generation of employment in Pontevedra, sector 28. It's also indecent because of the way it was done, so as to grant this extension to a company that has proven that damage to Pontevedra's creek, made by a government in functions – in discount time – that has no legitimacy to make a decision of this magnitude. It's no longer an administrative act, it's a decision made at night, with alleviation and premeditation. And why? First, because there was no need to make that decision now, because it was not necessary to make that decision until the extension was completed in 2018. I mean, it was now a political decision that the People's Party wanted to make, a cowardly decision, but it wasn't necessary, it didn't end any time, it wouldn't have to do it now. Second. There was premeditation in the decision, and it shows what? For on January 20, 2016, the ministry refers to the Pontevedra Council in which it denies the copy of the file requested by the Pontevedra Council. He sends that writing with a registration date on January 20, and then inform the Town Hall that the allegations will be evaluated, and the communication arrives on January 26, register number 1318. What a coincidence! With record number 1328 – that is, ten other numbers – that is, on the same day – and it's also on the same January 20th – they also transmit another writing where a resolution with the extension of the Ence results. You see, on January 20th, they tell the Pontevedra Council that they don't give you a copy of the file, that they're going to study the allegations, and on the same day it turns out that they decide to grant the extension. Something smells like rot, don't you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Something smells like it's not a normal administrative procedure, use and so on. No, of course we're faced with a premeditated decision. And what's even more corroborating that? For it is the very pastry on January 25th that communicates the decision. Before that decision reaches the Town Hall or other institution, you've already got the communication from the pastry. I mean, by regular and normal administrative procedure, of two officials there in the ministry, nothing at all. And, of course, it doesn't seem to be about any administrative procedure. Why is it with nighttime and alleviation? Because the dimension of the extension is indecent. I mean, a dimension of an extension for 60 years, when the concessions are normal for 30. They're extending twice the amount of time the concessions must be made. Of course, this doesn't smell like normal procedure. And why is it also premeditated and relieved? Because we're talking about an amortized company. We're talking about a company with an expiration date in its concession which is extended after making the mandatory legislative modification to the extent of the company. You could continue to list issues that have been made that demonstrate that, of course, we are not faced with any sort of regulated administrative issue, but quite the contrary, we are in front of a political decision that has caused all the alarms to be skipped, which has caused thousands and thousands of people on January 29 to go out into the street in Pontevedra showing indignation at the decision taken and demanding the withdrawal of the Ring from the river. It's an extension that exponentially revalues the company for the decisions made by the People's Party and devalues Pontevedra. The company wins, Pontevedra loses. And there is no justification for this concession. We know what the company earns, we know it has millionaire profits. A company bought at the balance price because it had an expiry date; a company that is subject to custom legislative changes; a company that is given gifts as a fee discount to use the Ribadeo pier -- that is, custom rates, custom laws -- a company that is given water consumption, which consumes more water than all the municipalities in the Pontevedra River. We know that it benefits the People's Party, we know from the rotational doors, we know of the stay at the board of directors of Isabel Tocino, Carlos del Alamo, that the director of Ence is married to a person who has the highest responsibilities in environmental concessions at the board of Galicia. We know that he removes the company, we know that he removes the People's Party, and what we know is that he loses the Greek people, we know that he loses Pontevedra, we know that he loses the laugh: that is the conclusion of the decision taken by the People's Party. It's a scandal that there are governments that make these kinds of decisions to benefit a company at the cost of harming a whole people and a whole stream; it's the cost of preventing public land from making uses that benefit most people rather than a company. A company that aims to justify, in addition, its permanence saying that it's going to make a whole series of investments that, well, really laugh. It's worth 61 million euros when in the year that's just ended it's already won 50 million euros. And besides these 61 million euros are for the company to comply with environmental standards, i.e., all a real joke! We are therefore faced with a direct theft of the quality of life of the pontiffs and pontiffs, of the Pontevedra River, and of a direct theft of public taxes, because we are going to pay all of that with public taxes. That is why we are bringing here today an initiative on which we are asking that the Galician Parliament manifests the total disapproval of the extension of the grant to the Cence for permanent stay in the Pontevedra River for another 60 years. And that considers it illegal for a government in function to make a decision of such magnitude. We ask this Parliament to manifest itself in this direction. And we also demand that the Galician Parliament urge the Greek Government to carry out all the necessary actions so that the pastry can leave the river Pontevedra. In what way? Addressing the Spanish Government to request the annulment of the extension granted to Ence to remain in the river Pontevedra. And we also ask this Parliament to address Parliament's parliamentary groups representing the Congress of Deputies urging them to amend the Law on the Back, so that it is impossible for them to be as harmful activities as those carried out by Ence to be in public domain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u132	We hope that this House will support this initiative presented by the Galician Nationalist Block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u134	Thank you, President. Well, today we already know, without any doubt, that the President of the Council, when he desires it, essentially in the electoral period, and then fails to fulfill the promises. And he does it consciously. So, in 2009, in his election program, he carried the transfer of Cce from the Pontevedra River and today he supports Ence to stay in its current location. So Mr. Feijóo is a liar and lies to the people, something very serious in a government president, because he makes the Greeks and the Greeks untrustworthy of the President's word. Not even what you sign, because you're able to sign a program and then get rid of it. So, of course, who should also resign would be Mr. Feijóo for deceiving the Greek people in 2009. The extension of Ence was already under sentence because there was already a ruling by the Supreme Court and the National Court that forced him to leave his occupation in the river in 2018. But the government in function – which was in a great hurry to fix the life of Ence – granted him an extension for 60 years that exceeded the maximum aspiration of the Ence itself, which was not beyond the age of 30. But the People's Party, very concerned about Ence, has granted him the extension for 60 years extendable, as the BNG spokesman said. And in order to be able to grant this extension, the Government of the People's Party in the State did not cut itself anywhere in changing the Law of Back and making a specific back law so that Ence could stay in the creek, which was the great beneficiary of this legislative change. So we'll have Ence in the stream until the year 2073. Therefore, Mr. Rajoy's Government is dismissed with an attack on the Pontevedra River. The central government's decision is that there has always been a total convolence between the Ence and the People's Party's Government. As the BNG spokesperson said, they have several friends and affiliates sitting on the board of directors, from Isabel Tocino, Carlos del Álamo, Fernando Abril Martorell and Antonio Casal's relations with the boss of Elnosa and the deputy general director of Environmental Coordination. Society and all political parties, except the People's Party, demand that Ence get out of the river, that's all right. I, for example, am already a senior lady, with this extension I shall not know Pontevedra without the Cinderella in the river. More than a generation punished by the contamination of the Ence in the creek. And why do you defend the People's Party now the stay of Ence in the laugh? By the jobs; by the jobs of the factory of Ence. Pellejero's people are clear that they don't care, nor many others; the only importance lies in the posts of the Ence. Just like the businessmen, who also talk about Ence and the factory itself, about the jobs of Ence. But what is not valued neither by the Government nor by anyone, nor by the entrepreneurs, is the state of pollution of the river, the health impact of people living in Pontevedra, the destruction of the environment and the destruction of any possibility of economical use of that area with other activities, such as seafood and fishing. I understand the rejection of the workers and the workers of Ence, they're defending their jobs, but that doesn't mean that Ence doesn't contaminate or that Ence shouldn't get out of the river. That's why we're betting for the transfer of Ence within Pontevedra, because also Ence will convert the Galician mountain into a eucalyptus plantation that we've already seen that kills our mountain, drying out and making the biodiversity of our mountain unviable. We tabled an amendment almost by goat, because, indeed, it may be that declaring Mariano Rajoy Brey ungracious person in Galicia does not have immediate political consequences, but if it has consequences for the extension of Ence, and because with this extension Mr. Rajoy has just declared the city of Pontevedra ungracious to live and Galicia community not grateful to live, contaminated and punished community. That's why, because we consider this extension of the granting of a government in terms of judgments against it to be another form of corruption of the People's Party. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u136	The lords and ladies of the People's Party are offended because a council and the full of a council by most absolutes declare a person not grateful to Mr. Rajoy. But on what planet do you live? But who do you think I am? It's little of this gesture for what this lord deserved, it's very little for what a person deserved, who, as the ruler of the government, betrayed Pontevedra and betrayed his country. I should follow the example in many more municipalities: to declare a person ungrateful to Mariano Rajoy. And there's one person missing to add to the list: Mr. Feijóo, who I think is worse than Mr. Rajoy. Mr. Rajoy betrays the bridgekeepers and the bridgekeepers, the gales and the gales to benefit from a friendly company. It's more of a case for those who work for the People's Party against the majority of society. I bring it to all the Greeks and to all the Greeks. But Mr. Feijóo commits a worse betrayal: one hundred percent of the parties here and of the Members and Members here are supported in the 2012 electoral programmes by the transfer of Enc from the Pontevedra River, and thanks to the betrayal of Mr. Feijóo Galicia had neither art nor part to decide whether or not to stay or transfer of Enc from the Pontevedra River. Mr. Feijóo is also an ungracious person, because a ruler, Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Feijóo, can rule as they wish based on their ideology, what they cannot do is betray the citizens to whom they rule. And you think it's an offense that Mr. Feijóo is declared a non-gracious person. But what do you think a government like that of a party that's corrupt in its DNA, a party that erases hard disks so you don't see funding B to justice and that the judges themselves say it's an organization to commit crime, that does a job against the majority of society? What do you think the citizenry will say? Therefore, the representatives of Pontevedra who defend citizenship, these are worthy representatives, and those who will manifest themselves against this popular will, those who are indeed not worthy. We want to ask the People's Party again what were the reasons – if you remember – why the People's Party included in the program from 2012 to 2009 the transfer of the CCE from the Pontevedra River, to see if they remember why the People's Party was asking for that; not the reasons for changing positions, we no longer ask for that, if they remember why they asked for that transfer. We would like to ask the People's Party and the Government of the Council of Galicia why during the drafting of the amendment of the Law on the Back they said nothing against the removal of Galicia the power to decide ultimately whether or not it was moving to the River Age. What was the position of the Galician People's Party and the Government of Galician Union? Or don't they paint anything on those decisions? Or does the president of the board have nothing to say when a law is being made that invades competence, which takes away our right to decide, a matter so important? I do know the answer: that Mr. Feijóo got what he wanted; and it was much better not to stain his hands and transfer the responsibility of the decision to another, but that's an absolute betrayal to Galicia. I'd like to know what the People's Party said when it was introduced into the Back Rule, the Back Law, when it was limited to the environmental report that the Galician Union had to issue to the prefixed effects in the integrated environmental authorisation, when it was limited to the freedom to make an environmental report with complete freedom. What did the Government of the Union say and what did the People's Party say? Nothing, nothing; once again, nothing, because, if you change your mind, at least you should have the courage to do so and not to charge it to the Government of Madrid, giving in to the sovereignty of this country. And, basically, once again, there's corruption, of course, corruption. The People's Party is once again ruling for a few and against most. We therefore support this initiative and encourage the example to be followed. There are representatives, there are rulers, who do not represent us, and of course they are not grateful people, and they have to know; they have to know that they are not grateful people when they betray a people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u137	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. I think you meant that – and he said, to my understanding, bad – the People's Party is not a corrupt party. It's a party that may have some corrupt, which I deeply regret, but I, of course, do not carry it in DNA, which is clear. No, no, I guess I meant this. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u138	Thank you, President. Good morning. The first thing we have to say from the Socialist Parliamentary Group is that we are going to vote in favour of this non-BNG bill, and I will explain why. In the year 59 C.E. it reached the river Pontevedra and will not march until 2073; more than a century in a marsh, in a public domain area. Pontevedra has rejected this location since 1959, and this rejection is not only reflected in the transaction which this Parliament voted for the president of the Union in the past legislate for the transfer of Ence, but also in the demonstration of 20,000 people in the streets of Pontevedra in January; in Pontevedra, where nothing moves. President Feijóo has twice been a candidate for the presidency of the Union in 2009 and 2012 and in those electoral programs to be a candidate these two times has promised that the grant of Ence would end in 2018; that is, in this House we are Members in this legislation with an election promise from the People's Party for the transfer of Ence before the year 2018. In 2009 and 2012 there was already a crisis, jobs were already destroyed, and the employees of Ence were already in the company, exactly the same as today. The truth is that it arrived on May 29, 2013 and the People's Party reformed the Law from behind and allowed the extension of the grant to Cence for another 75 years; that's what the law said in principle. This law of 2013 was the most important political decision for Ence and Lourizán and it was a political decision by Mr. Mariano Rajoy and therefore the People's Party. He made it and his government didn't say "this mouth is mine" to that law of 2013, not even a monosyllabus in the report they sent to Madrid. It was through the media as we learned that this report had been sent to Madrid saying that the factory complied with the parameters of integrated environmental authorisation; a report that does not enter any political position, or even in the convenience of the extension or not for sixty years, because President Feijóo did not come to this Parliament to explain why in 2009 and 2012 he said something and why since 2013 with that political decision – I repeat – by Mariano Rajoy with the amendment of the Law on the coasts rightly said the opposite. We've learned through the media, and it's worth an article, which I recommend to all of the ladies who read today, who are in the Journal. He is in Spanish and is by Marcos Pérez Pena, who is his author, and who says: "Every social conflict is also a struggle for the construction of the meaning of the conflict and for the definition of its elements. And this struggle takes place mainly through the media." Yeah, like that. Just over a month ago, Rajoy's Government was in office and by delegation of the Minister of Environment to a director general granted this extension for another sixty years, and of all we learned by the media. He started giving the good news through a press release through the back door: 114 more years on the Lourizan marsh and only for 61 million euros. At the last plenary session, the president of the board came here and said he was upset by the paperwork in Lourizán, so he said, "I'm wasting the paperboard in Lourizán." But the options were either to close it or to have it there. And one of the reasons was that Ence needs plenty of water to work. I know the president of the board hasn't read the page of the Ence. Since September last year, a project called New Water Cycle, which says it will be reduced by more than 90% to the water that Ence takes from the River Lérez. The president of the board may lie to us once more. And all this that I have just related explains, I think that well because Mariano Rajoy was declared a person not grateful in Pontevedra, not for being, as the popular Pablo Casado said a few days ago: "...probably the most prominent personality of the last century in this city." Poor Pablo Casado!, who doesn't even know where Ence is or that in Pontevedra we had people, for example, as the great universal violinist Manuel Quiroga, to whom poor Mariano Rajoy will never reach the sole of his shoes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Very good morning. When we read this initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block, we ask ourselves, "Hey!, this extension, where does it come from? Why did he have to give an extension to a company? Well, if an extension is given to a company, it's because the company is working and asks for its status to be extended. So we asked ourselves, why was it working? We began to find out who authorized this company to be working today in Pontevedra and it turns out that it is a resolution of the Environmental Council and Sustainable Development of 30 April 2008 granting the integrated environmental authorization for the cellulose factory in the Pontevedra Town Hall; owner, company group Ence. And of course, let's look and who was ruling at that time? For the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block; curiously the party that now says Ence contaminates, that it cannot be where it is, and it turns out that they gave its permission. [[Murmurs.]] And the good thing is... I know it's prote, but we're going to do it! [[Murmurs.]] And the most striking thing is that we see this company when you applied for this authorization was in November 2004, when you were running the People's Party at the Galician Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But the People's Party didn't give him permission. Who gave it to her? An executive in 2008 of the BNG and the Socialist Party. So, for the same reason, we can now... now that we know who allowed the Ence to be working in the Pontevedra stream, we could propose to declare non-gracious people the president of the board at that time, the vice president of the board, even the environmental adviser. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But we're not going to do it first, because that's nothing to contribute, and secondly, because I suppose that when the president of the board, the vice president of the board, the government of the BNG and the PSOE in 2008, they gave this permission it was because Ence complied with environmental regulations. [[Applause]] And what the People's Party did after that was to verify that this company was still meeting the parameters that BNG and PSOE gave it in this integrated environmental authorization. If you hadn't given him that authorization, ladies and gentlemen, we wouldn't be talking about any extensions today, or any pollution, as you say. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So I insist again, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u141	You're right. You are reading a document; therefore, you must listen. No, no, you're reading a document. [[Protests.]] It's in the use of the word... it's in the use of the word like the others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u142	Of course, we had to check how this was. I don't know, Mr. President, maybe I can't read well, but I think this is the year 2008. Maybe I'm wrong, but here it says it was the Government of the Socialist Party and the BNG who gave this permission. I don't understand. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u144	I don't understand. And, curiously, there are now groups here that were just a few moments ago saying they were fighting for five jobs from a company, but they're trying to destroy 5,000 jobs that depend on a company. Man, please! Please! for you, there are first and second workers, for us not; for us they are all workers, and any industrial project that generates work in Galicia, and particularly, in my case, in Pontevedra, will have red carpet to be able to install, have full security. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And what Pontevedra devalues – because this statement was mentioned here, to the shame of all the Pontevedras – is that he is known, not only national, but internationally, because his mayor has facilitated and supported himself to declare himself not a neighbor of his city, of which he is also mayor. And exactly why? [[Murmurs.]] To facilitate the maintenance of 5,000 jobs. And how? Following up on a decision by the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Party when they were at Galician Union. That's why I want to tell you that Pontevedra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u145	You've already spoken, eh!; just talk to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u146	No, but it seems to bother, it hurts. I mean, it's totally unfair because it's done precisely with a neighbour of Pontevedra who is the president of the Government who did most for Pontevedra; he has no forgiveness. And what I'm telling you, what I want to tell you is clearly that Pontevedra is an open city where no one is not grateful. We can think differently, but we accept diversity and that neighbours have different thoughts. But in Pontevedra everyone is grateful, Pontevedra is an open city. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u148	Clearly Pontevedra is a great city, but not thanks to the work done by the People's Party. If you ask anyone from Pontevedra or outside what the great things that you like from Pontevedra are, you will soon see that none of them are linked to the People's Party. And if we ask him what's the worst of Pontevedra, everyone will answer: Yes, which is the responsibility of the People's Party. That's right. [[Applause]] And look, a little thing. The People's Party tried to remove the Ence from the public domain, incorporate it into the port of Marín, a sectoral project of supramunicipal impact, resorted to judgments contrary to Ence's permanence to follow it, modified the Law of ad hoc back... Ah!, but the blame for following is an integrated environmental authorization that would not make it impossible for anything to come out of the creek in 2018. You have to look for a little more, Mr. Moreira, you have to look for a little bit more of those papers; you see that you have a little lost there – some of those papers – which has a little missing hemerotheque. Look, I'm going to tell you by now that the BNG will not give up taking the Cence out of Pontevedra's river, demanding it to the past, present and future governments. We're not going to give up, because it's negative for Pontevedra, for the laughter and for the economic, social and health development of people. [[Applause]] Let's say it in the past, in the present and in the future. We're not puppets, like the People's Party, who are adapting to their needs. And look, there's one thing very clear: He can't move and the laugh can't, Mr. Moreira; He can move, and the laugh can't! That's the point. And there's a question that I'd like one day for them to answer: why were they able to move contaminants, less contaminants, less damaging than the Ince in the Pontevedra River, with millions of expenses – we can talk about Bilbao, we can talk about Xixon – and we can talk about Ence? What's the matter, that the pontiffs, Pontevedra's laugh, have a biblical curse that says they have to endure with an enclave industry set by franchise and consolidated by the People's Party? Where is it written he can't move? It costs money, it costs the company. And you, instead of the company paying, what they do is we all pay for our pocket. They give you regulations, they water you, they charge you fees. And that law of back – look what a chance! – would solve all the problems in the world, and it turns out that we find ourselves these days?: Coasts reject the legalization of all the nuclei of the coast, for example, of Vilaboa. I mean, there's a law that allows Ence to extend more than sixty years in the Pontevedra River, and what the People's Party promised to serve to regulate the nuclei of the coast turns out to be no more. A football field cannot be granted the license because it is very harmful, the CCE, yes; to the nuclei of the coast, no; to the CCE, yes. Something smells like rot, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. It's indecent what they've just done. It's a real betrayal of Pontevedra, neighbors and neighbors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u150	...of Pontevedra and laughter, and it is clear that it is a political decision made to benefit a company against the interests of most citizens. And, I tell you, today they will vote against, but the BNG won't give up; let's keep doing all we can and impossible for Ence to get out of Pontevedra's river, they don't have the slightest doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro and Mr. Alejandro Gómez Alonso, on the bidding by the Government of Greece of road reform works PO-531, on the Pontevedra-Curro stretch, and the prioritization of the most necessary points for the improvement of road safety
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u152	This motion for a non-law was tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, another by the Galician Alternative Group and another by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u153	Mr Moreira has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. We're talking here today about this initiative of bidding a project that has a long history. It is a project of the reform of the PO road, the autonomic road PO-531, which connects Pontevedra with Vilagarcia in its stretch between Pontevedra and Curro. It was a project that had started in the year – I am back to the Bipartite – year 2007-2008; a project that raised a great deal of confusion among the beautiful neighbours with this road because it had taken a lot of houses ahead, and the neighbors were not in accordance with its configuration; in fact, we all remember – those we passed a lot there – that road full of crosses, protests, posters and the intransigence of a counselor who first did not want to teach the project and then the project did not satisfy the neighbors, and from there we all remember those demonstrations, road cuts and protests against that two-party government. Well, the Government of Feijóo arrived at the Galician board and the first thing he did in Pontevedra was to sit with the affected neighbors and listen to which were their claims for this reform. There was a really new project of reforming this way, and finally, in 2010, an agreement was reached with the neighbours, consensing a reform that satisfied all of them and significantly improved road safety. At the time, they explained the budgetary difficulties that existed and agreed with the neighbors to postpone their execution until there were better budgetary provisions. That's how they accepted it. But it's true that it's been six years since then, and I think it's necessary to urge the Council of Galicia to bid these works. In any case, in these years things have been done on this road. Thus, in 2014, it was carried out in the environment of the so-called Gloriet of Firefighters, in the municipality of Pontevedra, through the reinforcement of horizontal and vertical signaling and the installation of transversal alert bands, having already verified the effectiveness of the measures used when finding a very significant reduction in the accident in the third party. Even so, the signage of the Curro area was reviewed, complementary elements of ballast were installed in the truces in which there are three lanes, also involved on the road works of localized rehabilitation of the firm, both in the truce that runs through Pontevedra Town Hall and in what runs through the lenient Barro Town Hall, consistent with the renewal of the pre-milled rolling cover, which had as object the improvement of road safety, acting in particular on the truces in which there were problems of sliding. Specifically, in the corner of the Curro curve, between the 8,200 and 8600 points of the road ahead, a micro-agglomeration was extended in the autumn of 2015 to the surface treatment of the firm that increases the adhesion of the rolling layer, thus improving road safety in that environment. From here the adviser has already met with the neighbours, explaining that, in this month of February, he has published in the Official Journal of Galicia the Resolution of the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, so that public information is submitted to the project of improving road safety and access to the Sequeiros Polygon, as well as the individual relationship of goods, rights and owners affected by that project. This project acts on a third of the PO-531 road, in an area that crosses several nuclei of population and also affects the Sequeiros Industrial Polygon. In carrying out this action, it is intended to avoid or minimize possible risk or road safety situations. As I have just said, the advisor has informed the neighbours directly, but from here on, with this proposal, what we want is to take a step further and urge that the execution of this project be lawful, if we understand that it can be done through phases. That is why in our proposal we say that the proposed agreement is that the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to bid for the execution of the reform of the PO-531 in the Pontevedra-Curro tranche, giving priority to the most necessary points for the improvement of road safety. Several amendments have been tabled. With regard to the amended aforesaids, what we can tell you about the BNG is that it is an amendment that we are going to reject, since in our bill the Board is already urged to bid for the execution of the PO-531 reform in the Pontevedra-Curro tranche and to prioritize the most necessary points for the improvement of road safety. And in the amendment of the BNG it is requested to execute this project and to specify a series of parts of this project, which are five roundabouts. We believe that it is better to agree between the Council of Galicia and the neighbours whose priority actions should be. On the other hand, the amendment of the BNG also calls for the necessary actions to free the AP-9 from toll as soon as possible between Curro and Pontevedra, and, in this respect, we must stress that, on the one hand, it is important to remember that the AP-9 is a road of state ownership, so it is not up to the Autonomic Administration to abolish the fee. There's another amendment formulated by the Socialist Party, which speaks of an integral act, a timeline of an integral act. We, I insist, want to leave to the agreement between the neighbours and the Galician Union the execution by phases and, therefore, we will not accept this amendment because we would condition the schedule of the Galician Union, and I think it's best to give protagonists to the neighbours affected by this project. With regard to the amendment tabled by AGE, this amendment, this text, has already been dealt with in the corresponding committee, and in that committee we have agreed unanimously to adopt point 1, which is that it immediately acts on the so-called Curro curve on the road ahead. And on the other points, we've already rejected point 2 and point 3; so we're not going to vary our criteria either. We therefore want to build on this initiative. We must remember and thank him for his patience with the neighbors affected by this reform. I think they were very understanding of the budgetary situation with which the Galician Union was found when the Government of the People's Party arrived, in which there were 2,000 million euros less in the ark than it was said in the budgets. They understood the situation, and now I think it's time to respond to the demand of this road, which so much transit has, so that you go running, even if it's in stages, taking care of your demands, and that they themselves prioritize which are the parts they want to begin. It will go to Galicia's board by the hand of the neighbors and, if they agree, we also agree. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u155	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u156	Good morning. Actually, Mr. Moreira, do you have a little humanity left? How can you go up this rostrum to say that you ask your neighbors and thank them for patience? We're not talking about patience, we're talking about security, tens of deaths in these curves, dozens of deaths! And you tell me that you thank them for patience and that, of course, the problem was that the 2008 Bipartite said one thing... but it's that we're in 2016. Did you guys do nothing from 2008 to 2016? It's a coat of hair. You guys have a bad conscience, and they come here to wash the face of what had to be a claim of the affected. Because this comes here today, just as it came to the commission, because the affected, the injured, the injured, who every day have to pass, absolutely fearful, through that area when it rains, because they know they play their lives, they organized themselves and asked that these works be done. But who do they want to take the hair? You're a snore of government, because you can't afford to say here that there's patience when there's deaths on that road, that it's responsibility for others when they've been ruling seven years this country and they haven't done anything on this road; that's more, what they've done was the Curro knot to facilitate the sale of land that wasn't for anything to some of the people's friendly companies. And tell me what's the solution for the pawns of that Macronide of Curro or what's the solution for the thousands of people who slide daily between Vilagaría and Pontevedra and who have to go through that mileage point, between 6 and 18.5, which is a real deadly trap. Because not only do the neighbors say it, but the DGT itself recognizes that mileage as the largest black spot on networks across the state. But what are we talking about? And you, not a single reference to this situation. They didn't do anything, and now they recognize their inability to act. And at this initiative we have already asked you a question: first, you have to act on that specific point that has great danger, in its safety, in its validation, especially in the pedestrian accesses and infrastructures that live in that environment, because one of the most dangerous curves in this country and the whole of the state is living next to a gas station, with a very important amount... that we should rethink a lot of things, especially where these infrastructures are located. You guys did something, you did it, you did it last summer, you increased the speed limit of a dangerous site that was 70 to 80, as if that was one of the fundamental elements; you increased the ability to go faster by that kilometre point that DGT itself recognizes as the most dangerous. And what I'm telling you is what the victim's association on that road tells them, because there's a victim's association, and it's not only enough to solve the problem of road safety, that it's, that it exists and that they didn't do anything, but the victims have to be compensated. Because that you bring this here today is a recognition of the incapacity and responsibility of the Public Service of the Galician Union, the owner of the work, that many of the accidents are the fault of the administration itself, of having made a road that does not have the minimum security requirements and therefore the accidents that have been carried out there are also the subsidiary responsibility of the Administration. And you'll have to compensate the victims, those victims who had to lose their jobs and their lives for a badly executed work by an administration like the Galician Union. So I ask you once for all to be worthy, and dignity is not to ask the neighbors for patience, but to act directly on that road. We also put this in the commission, and of course we claim what the neighbors claim: that, as long as this is not done, this AP-9 frame is free, because it's not to be received that multinationals are made of gold and our people have to play their lives every winter on that road. By the way, it's one of the biggest roads, let's say, occupation of the whole network of roads in Galicia. If you vote don't do this – absolute abandonment with one of the most traffic spots and more accidents happen – what will you do with the rest of the country's network? Well, as far as we're in the current situation, leave it absolute, because it gives them absolutely the same. That's right, when the previous president of Parliament and the president of the port of Vilagaría access an algarabía at the gates of the Pontevedra Town Hall, some of them use the official car; the official car to go to a mobilization called by the People's Party. And by the way, the former President of this Parliament, who expelled the people of Parliament from failing to respect the institution - according to her - will not respect the institution and democratic decision of the Pontevedra Council. Therefore, double morals must be eliminated before the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u157	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u158	Mr. Moreira, you as a trilero have no price, I must say so, with all my affection. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the road safety situation at PO-531 has a few more known deficiencies. The BNG brought initiatives to this Parliament demanding solutions – solutions that the neighbours demanded – because there were also unanimous resolutions of the Barro Council, but they were found here with the People's Party fence, with a vote against the People's Party on these demands. You come here to stand up as a spokesperson for your neighbors, says they're going to do what the neighbors want, but it's that mind shamelessly, because they've already voted against what the neighbors ask. And besides, it's a demand that's not a whim, it's not saying: well, we want some improvements here that are almost nothing; is that we're talking about it's a road that the biggest traffic supports the title of the Galician Union, the biggest traffic of the Galician Union, that it's the main free road between Pontevedra and Vilagaría and that it also receives traffic from all over the area of Salnes, Grove, Sanxenxo, Cambados, Vil.Anova, of May, because it's the only free waterway to join these territories. We're talking about a matter of importance. And neighbors and neighbors have been demanding these measures for many years. During that tremendous Bipartite was reaching agreements, practically a deal was closed. What is true is that since the People's Party arrived in 2009 – we're in 2016 – the only thing they've done was to dilate and not do anything at all, despite the fact that we're talking about a frame with multiple sinisters and loss of life; loss of life, which is why I'm saying it's not a whim. Loss of lives! That's why the BNG brought initiatives here, and we bring this one back here. It just doesn't say the same thing as what you say, Mr. Moreira; it's BNG that we say it's run in 2016, we put deadlines on it. What I don't want is for you to come here in pre-election time to say what we're going to do. No, real commitments, deadlines. And he also says that this year 2016 takes priority over the five roundabouts committed, because the Territorial Delegate of Galician Union in Pontevedra for more than a year has promised the neighbours and neighbours that would make those five roundons; with which, the commitments or verbal promises that go nowhere we want them to become real commitments. And of course, we call for all the precise actions to be done, we do not say that they are the competence of the Galician Union, but that the necessary actions are done to release AP-9 from duty, so that it is a vial that allows this area to be decongested. These are the issues that neighbors are asking for. And the truth is, to me, it seems to me very little serious that he comes here today, after the project is already on public exhibition, that the advisor had met with the affected and the Town Hall and after they published in the press, to make a demand that the Government of the Union, its government, has already published. Actually, I don't know, he seems to be a little late for those hemerothec problems. Look, the demands we make are – again the hemerotheques – what the People's Party demanded when it turns out that it was in the opposition... – Mr. Moreira, I see it doesn't have much interest, because it's the same thing that makes him jump the colors. – He said that the situation was tremendous, that the proposal made by the Union was not good; with which, they recognized that there was a proposal, that there was a project and a compromise from the People's Party: the suppression of the toll at the AP-9 between Pontevedra and Curro; the link of Curro with the Salnes highway –proposed by the People's Party – building a third lane of AP-9 between Curro and Pontevedra; the conversion of PO-531 into an urban avenue. How long has it been since, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Seven years, and they follow, they come here today to urge themselves to go on as far as possible. Look, the neighbours and neighbours of Curro don't stand any more lies in the paper that are then not realized in any reality. So if you are unable to accept the amendments that we tabled, where specific deadlines are put and where real measures are put that solve the problem, because the Nationalist Block of Wales cannot support initiatives that are simply electoral flowers and that do not aim to solve the security problem for the neighbours and neighbours. How do you figure it out? With real commitments, with deadlines and effective the promises of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u160	...and the demands of the neighbours of Curro. Like this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Mr Fernández Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u162	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Mr. Moreira, it gives the feeling that Galicia was born in 2008, and I remind you that in 2008 we were already 27 years of governments of the Galician Union, in which 22 ruled the People's Party. What's more, the current president of the board in pre-2005 was councillor of Territory Planning, Public Works and Transport. So that's reality, and the problem wasn't born in 2008, you know very well. Because we're talking about a road, the PO-531, which obviously has a lot of strength. It's a road that crosses the entire Salnesh Peninsula on the inside, it's a road that receives an important movement of coastal people's vehicles, it's a road that unites two of the three most populated cities in Pontevedra province, it's a road that supports an IMD – an average vehicle intensity – of about 17,000, of which about 2,000 are heavy vehicles. This is the daily traffic situation that supports this road of autonomous ownership. And, at this point, it is appropriate to ask a simple question: what is the reality of the daily scope between Curro and Pontevedra that affects users, neighbors and neighbors? It's in sight, and we all know it: several industrial settlements at the foot of the road, industrial ships on the side of the same road, roadside houses – or the road taken to the houses, which would be the same –, non-existent sidewalks, insufficient pedestrian crossings -- this stretch looks like a permanent sloppy crossing of industrial ships. And it is also appropriate to ask another question: is it adapted to the autonomic road PO-531 between Curro and Pontevedra to withstand this traffic in security conditions for all track players; i.e. pedestrians, cyclists, drivers, light or heavy vehicles? I think we all agree that roundly we don't, starting with the neighbors and neighbors of Campañó, of Devesa, who have constituted a platform with which they come acting permanently and requesting and asking for an integral arrangement of this road. By the way, an integral project that was designed according to the neighborhood itself during the two-party government, and that you've got nothing more to do with it in the drawer, trying to break up with the past, against the opinion of the neighbors and neighbors. This is a road away completely from road safety. The accident table, the sinister table, and the wounded and deceased table is in sight of everyone. These numerous accidents, with the results of the deceased, which take place year after year, certify this situation, and the situation is absolutely conclusive. Traffic identifies PO-531, in the 2015 report, as one of the most risky Greek roads. By the way, year after year the same reports reflect the same situation. So this is not a conjunctive situation, which occurs at a given time as a result of unforeseen situations. We are facing a structural situation that lasts many years and puts people's lives at risk on a daily basis. And with this situation, what has the Government of Mr Feijóo's People's Party done in this regard for the past seven years? Just three things. First: resigning in the first months of government to the project drafted and approved by the PO-531 bipartisan government agreed with the neighbours. Secondly, it will be shown to be absolutely impatible for the last seven years in the face of the serious situation that has occurred day by day in the third Pontevedra-Curro of PO-531. And third: to inaugurate the electoral pre-campaign in Barro, when he first meets with the platform for the improvement of the PO-531, a platform with ten years of life and seven years of forgetfulness for the Government of the Union. With the background of this council, this government and the Directorate-General for Infrastructure, the credibility of what they promised last day 17 are still in little promises...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u164	...simple distraction maneuver in the election year. See, on February 17, there was the first meeting with the neighbors, by the way, accompanied by the publication in the DOG on the same day – because if not, they did not receive them – of the expropriation process, with an investment of EUR 500,000, unique and exclusively, and the only announcement is the announcement of expropriation. With the warning of the platform itself – out in the media – we make it very clear that if they don't act, people will return to the street. For all this, the Socialist Party has presented an amendment of addition, which compromises the schedule, actions and budgets for an integral intervention at the PO-531 between Pontevedra and Curro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u165	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u166	...because that integral intervention is needed. I'm done, Madam President. The rest, what you say, what the advisor says and what they promise, are just fireworks and again, after this, forgetfulness. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u167	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u168	Good morning to all and to all. This non-law proposal that brings us today, the People's Party, is about the Pontevedra Curro reform project, at PO-531; it's like endless history, because it's not too clear to us either. After ten years of demands from the neighbours and neighbours of the various municipalities of the region that form the platform of this road, in November last year their demands were renewed to demand that the Junta resume the project of reform of the road of Vilagarcia. There's a lot of concern about the high claims of this vial, and they're full and full of ten years of the urbanization project of this road, this medium of communication, stored in a drawer, the so-called road of the thousand Remedies. Until the people of Salnes will have a decent connection according to the times of the 21st century? We imagine something will happen now, but we don't know what, pressured by the mobilization of neighbors and neighbors, and by being in the election year, they start with their propaganda machinery. And we don't understand why you bring this here today, to this House, and, as my fellow BNG and PSOE repeated, we don't understand why you're brought here, when the counselor herself, after the pressures all the neighbors and neighbors had, joined them last week, which also coincided with the announcement of the Official Journal of Galicia, the public exhibition phase, where you talk about a budget with a specific amount and you talk about the first steps they're going to take, which is to remove the black dot in the 8.2 kilometre of the vial, with a roundabout. We know that the so-called road, which communicates Arousa's Vilagaría with Pontevedra, is of the first of Galicia's traffic density, one of the highest in this community; a 20-kilometre stretch, of which 10% corresponds to heavy traffic, and in part of this 10-kilometre, from Curro to Pontevedra, is where most of the sinisters and where many lives have also been lost. It's a vial that passes through a densely populated area, with shops at every margin, and through an agricultural border. It has several dangerous points, and, with the expansion of industrial polygons, it will help increase the passage of heavy vehicles, and this, in the immediate future, can lead to an increase in population and more traffic. The high density of vehicles requires constant maintenance due to the wear of the firm, which is not carried out. We understand that improvements are urgent, reducing black spots, and trying to eliminate the sinisters in a plot surrounded by population. One of the most effective solutions, following also the demands of the neighbors and neighbors of this region, is to suppress the A-9 motorway rate, because it comes up with an example that happens on the Morration Peninsula with the Rande sector. The high tariffs of the fee diminish the weakened economy of many workers and private workers and the transport sector, who suffer constantly more taxes on their activity. This road is the reflection of what happens with other roads in Galicia, by these fares or by these motorway rates, which are forced to use the normal road, as can also be the case of 550. And in the face of the pressure of Salnès people, Junta took positions last week, because, well, we're in the election year, and, of course, we have to win the votes, because the votes are pretty complicated, right, by the last elections. –Well, we'll see. – [[Laughter]] One of the big risks, which is on the 8th kilometer, high, maybe, isn't it, one of the blackest points, needs an urgent resphalt. And this is one of the factors that accidents occur, because it looks like it was one of the timely remedies that was used, like the case of the Devesa curve. It is clear that in most cases they are accidents that occur when it rains, above all, and circulating in the direction of Vilagaría, when cars have to wait longer, and it is clear that it is a serious structural failure. They also comment that it is not only the stretch of Curro to Pontevedra, but that one should also review the stretch of Curro to Vilagarcia, and also comment that there are claims from the neighbors around the entire work of Curro about the accumulated water of the rain, which have been claiming for three years for these improvements of the conditions of the ground. So what we're going to say is we're going to support from the Joint Group the amendments tabled by the groups of BNG, AGE and PSOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I see that both BNG and AGE are in a fallen layer. BNG's voice no longer applauds; AGE's voice here asks to cancel the extension to Cence, but something that doesn't even take into account his colleagues in Podemos in Madrid. [[Laughter]] So, if you don't listen to them in your party, do you want us to do this here in Parliament? Man, I just don't understand. [[Applause]] But, besides, it's fake that nothing had been done. Of course, if you notice that there are accidents, and that's why I'll already list here – you better pay more attention when the proponent speaks – but I've already said here that the Board, in spite of that, has been making arrangements and works for sections, to take into account and put in place measures to prevent accidents. I'll list them in addition. I said that with many of them there was a very significant reduction in accidentality. I'm talking about the Gloriet of Firefighters, the Firefighters' knot in Pontevedra, with a reinforcement of horizontal and vertical signaling, the installation of transversal alert bands. The signaling has been revised in the Curro area. Supplementary elements of validation have been installed in the three-carriage tranches. Then there were also works of localized rehabilitation of the firm, both in the third that is in Pontevedra and in Barro. The rolling cover was renewed and road safety improved, especially in the truces where sliding problems were found, and a microagglomerate was applied, which is a surface treatment of the firm that increases the adhesion of the tread layer. And this, of course, contributes to solving and mitigating accidents. Of course it contributes, it's found statistically. They didn't stay with their arms crossed at the Galician board waiting for the work to be done, they've already done things to take account of all these misdemeanours, and the misdemeanours have diminished. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And a project has been redrafted according to the neighbors, who are the best interlocutors, of course much better interlocutors than you, that all they want is to come here to push, and what they don't care about is the accident of the plot. [[Murmurs.]] We are interested in it, and fortunately the neighbors are in contact with the Board of Galicia, and the advisor has been with them recently, and, in fact, they have already agreed on the schedule and what are the priority phases that the neighbours want. I think we need to pay more attention to the neighbors than to the ideas you bring here, that all they want to do is make noise, but they don't really care about the safety of that road, so it seems. And, Mr. Fajardo, referring to his allusions, I tell him that in the Plenary Hall of Pontevedra, if there were people of the People's Party, they were particularly. The former president of Parliament was like another citizen, and as long as there's no HR controls on the door or purges through the Pontevedra Town Hall, everyone can go to the Pontevedra Town Hall. And of what you can be sure is that if you used gomine – whether you doubt it – or you doubt it – you haven't been paid with public funds. [[Applause]] Be sure of that, Mr. Fajardo. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u171	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. by Alternative Galaga de Esquerda, at the initiative of Mr José Javier Ron Fernández and five other Members, on the realization by the Government of Galicia of the necessary management before the Central Government for the development of the Plan for the Reception and Integration of Refugees from Syria and other countries in war or conflict
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u172	Two amendments will be tabled to this non-law proposal: one from the Galician Socialist Group and one from the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u173	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Ron Fernández, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u174	Good morning to all and to all. Aylan Kurdi, who remembers this name? He was only 3 years old, and the images of his body – a small body, which we can call killed – on a Turkish beach shook the sleeping consciences of the whole of Europe there at the end of the summer of 2015. Then a spontaneous wave of solidarity spread throughout the Spanish state, throughout Galicia, municipalities, parliaments, central government, citizenship. All of them raised a voice to say: let's stop this bleeding, hemorrhage that starts, in the case of Syria, of the year 2011. However, it is a solidarity expression which has remained awed by the realities and wishes of the different governments of the different Member States of the European Union. And we can say that the answer is generally outraged, outraged by the memory we have as peoples of Europe. It is even unworthy – it may seem anecdotic but it is not – with this Nobel Peace Prize with which Europe was awarded in 2012. It's an outrage because after Aylan – or in that same year – more than 1,000 children died in the sea. A quarter of asylum applications are minors. If we look at the general figures, in addition, we sadly see who manifests a position that we define as inappropriate, for all that the Spanish State has suffered and for our memory as a people, which was a people of exile and emigration, it is precisely the Spanish State. We can simply recall, on a quantitative basis, that 4,485 asylum applications were lodged in Spain in 2013 and in 2014, 5,947. Well, while there was still not 1% of the whole European Union in Spain, 126,705 applications were made in Germany in 2013, and 66,265 in France. While 384 refugee asylum conditions were granted in Spain in 2014, 33,310 were granted in Germany and 12,020 were granted in France. While this happened in the Mediterranean Sea in 2014, in the different seas of this great failure that is the Mediterranean sea, 3,419 people died. And while, together with that outrageous response, we only attended the expense, a breakdown of public money, in securing, outsourcing and providing means to monitor borders, for example, the Triton operation, which replaced a previous mission called Mare Nostrum, that if it had at least as a purpose to rescue people, and so rescued more than 100,000 people between October 2013 and November 2014, while with the Triton operation, in which they spend 2.9 million euros, launched after November 2014, it only has a security vision, not rescue or rescue. We can also say that there is no European reception policy worthy of that name, only the huge desire to outsource borders more and more, to spend different costs on rejection mechanisms. And that's the only way we can understand that between 2007 and 2013 there were 2,000 million euros in such policies. A talk has been created in the form of a false and dangerous speech that has connected refugees with terrorism and is concealed in the imagination of fear. And only so can we understand that Finland is advocating today for an exit from the euro, the Netherlands for a mini Schengen, Poland for a questionable policy in which it directly charges the separation of powers, Hungary for creating a separate fence with regard to Serbia, and that the Schengen Treaty is going to explode in a thousand small pieces, and so we see that the border controls are re-established in Denmark, Austria, Sweden and Germany, and that we will also create a serious problem in the Balkans that we will see where we are headed. So there's no real reception policy, and that's what we have to vary. To curb legal hell, segregation, discrimination, contempt, cold racism, institutional xenophobia, we must completely change the policy of reception, migration policy, here, in Europe, and there, in the causes, as well as in the causes and causes. We have to get that back from the right to have rights. Immigration is a global social fact and solidarity can only be open and inclusive, and that is, firstly, manifested in the right of asylum and hospitality. We have already said: we cannot understand that when the Minister of the Interior says that Spain is prepared to accommodate people who would come from the relocation and resettlement quotas, that they were simply 854, if he tells us that there are only 18 people who arrived from the relocation and resettlement quotas. And let it be said that we are actually prepared, that volunteers have been formed in Galicia, that there are resources, that there is the provision of councils and that no one is known yet in Galicia and that no one has put in place that plan; a plan that – we remember – must contain the necessary structures to offer welcome and accommodation, legal advice, access to basic public services such as education, health, social services, literacy in our language, training, guidance for employment and specialized psychological and social care; that must contain that plan; we were told that it was in progress. So we don't understand that we are told that there are only 18 people in the state and none in Galicia. I'll finish with two fragments. One, a Lebanese child, briefly, said: "In my country there is no security or work, which is dead every day. It was a very long and hard journey from Baalbek in Lebanon to get here. The boating route to Greece was very scary and difficult, we thought we could die at any moment. Neither of them -- they were two brothers -- "we could swim and we were on a rubber boat. And in Presevo, Serbia, we had to wait days in the midst of the cold to register." And, finally, as the great Eduardo Galiano wanted, it is necessary to regain solidarity and internationalism: "Sweet the fleas with buying a dog and dreaming of people with leaving the poor, which some magical day suddenly rains good luck, which rains on you good luck. But good luck does not rain yesterday, neither today, nor tomorrow, nor ever; neither does rain fall from heaven good luck. The people, the children of no one, the owners of nothing; the people, the no-ones, the no-ones running the hare, dying the life. God damned people, who are not though they are, who speak languages but dialects, who practice not religions but superstitions, who do not art but crafts, who apply not cultures but folklore, who are not human beings but human resources." For in order to prevent this we hope to obtain unanimity and support from all the forces represented here, so that the Greek Parliament simply urges the Union to develop the appropriate actions before the Central Government leading to the realization of the plan to welcome and integrate refugees from Syria and other countries in war and conflict. To regain the sense of our people and humanity of the Greek people as a European people, we achieve this unanimity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u175	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u176	It is clear that we are facing a dramatic situation of thousands of people — men, women, children — a humanitarian crisis at the doors and within the European Union, a crisis of a magnitude of tragedy, which obviously requires immediate action against these refugees. And, of course, at the BNG we denounce the indecent response to this situation of a consistent European Union, first, to establish ghettos, infamous camps, where hundreds and thousands of people suffer from cold, hunger and calamity. A European Union in which no part of its States is cut down to nationalize the few members of those who flee and criminalize the persons and entities who offer help. Which lifts up walls, fences which come to join the walls and valleys of shame raised by Israel or by Morocco in Western Sahara. A European Union which controls borders, effectively allowing Schengen to jump through the air, which Schengen applies to demand, setting out the true objective of the European Union in its flow of people. We are therefore faced with a dramatic situation that has causes, because all these thousands of people have not gone out of their way, they do not put their lives at risk, the lives of their families, because if they were suddenly left, they are people who are fleeing their countries because of the war that is taking place in them. And in line with the initiative presented by the Alternative Glaga de Left, the Galego Nationalist Block presents an amendment to add, because we believe it is necessary to go to the bottom of the causes that produce this tremendous situation of refugees and humanitarian crisis. And the causes of this situation are the imperialist robbery – high and clear –, the imperialist robbery of the United States, but also shared and followed by the states of the European Union, states jointly with the United States that do not doubt to bring death, destruction and misery to those countries in order to achieve their geostrategic targets, which are no more than to squander the resources of these countries, whether energy resources – such as oil or gas –, natural resources – such as water, water resources, phosphates... – any kind of resource that seems desirable to the states of the empire. First was Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Palestine by Israel, the Sahara by Morocco... and the scheme is always very similar: first, they organize, arm, encourage various organizations and encourage acts of destabilization and terrorism; then they use that destabilization to justify intervention and interference. And what is the conclusion? For that States – many of them I have just appointed – as those of the highest standard of living in the area are now devastated, unstable, of the most insecure countries on the planet. War and lack of control caused by that imperialist interference that has victims. Indeed, the victims are the population of these territories and that huge wave of refugees fleeing war, destruction and misery. The European Union's response was repression, turning the European Union, rather than taking responsibility for the causes, of the actions carried out, because in a real strength and carrying out actions in these consented and involved countries. So, the amendment we tabled – as I said before – is what we seek to go to the bottom, to end these imperialist, belligerent and robbery policies; that we defend dialogue in conflict resolution; that people have the right to decide their destiny without interference; that we oppose military alliances like NATO in the past, in the present and in the future; and that refugees and refugees are the result of political decisions, such interference and such intervention. And what we propose in our amendment is neither more nor less to say no to war, with regard to the sovereignty of the peoples, and with the right to decide their destiny, the peoples. We hope that the proposed group will accept the amendment, but we shall vote in favour of it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u178	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, Mr. Ron, I've been touched by your intervention in the staff, and I think that in addition to anyone born well in this country should also be excited about this kind of thing. Because Europe today is raising so many borders, so many wired, it is Europe that at the end of the 19th century in these countries that we consider today punters – Finland, Sweden... – they emigrated in mass, North America, Chile. In addition, it is very fashionable a literature of root recovery in Chile, where we speak of the historical emigrations of Germans, of Swedish, colonies practically isolated from a North-Central European culture, in countries like Venezuela, where there is a colony of Germans, where architecture, gastronomy, culture, everything is German, although today their grandchildren and great-grandfathers speak with Caribbean accent; that is yes, they are rubies and blue-eyed, because historically they even sought to marry in the country of origin or among them. That has suddenly forgotten us all, and this is a very serious problem, a cultural problem, an almost human problem, in the sense of empathy for other people's problems, and a political problem. You just have to see the evolution of Merkel's leadership from the beginning of the crisis to this day. And there's data that are very worrying, and those we're not paying attention, and that have given rise to real atrocities in Europe. A few days ago, there were people in Germany who were blocking firefighters so they wouldn't be putting out the fire from a shelter shelter shelter, and above all they had no problem getting out in front of the cameras and pretending to be such an attitude. And that's what we're letting happen like this, as if nothing happened. Here we have problems of political order, even of stability – something Mr Ron said – in the European Union. And one reflection: what are we doing – I have said in the debate of many initiatives that we have already made in this House, especially in the Commission 1st – so that those countries that since the mid-20th century have been exporting exiles and have been asking for welcome in the countries of what was formerly Western Europe today are the most furious ones, the ones who are closest to them to integrating and receiving the exiles, and are the first to raise genuine wire walls? The figures, Mr. Ron, are surpassed by reality; that is, here it seems... it's a matter worth studying. We see only one child dead, drowned, and our consciences move; we see thousands and it seems that nothing has happened. Even the news tells us that more than 5,000 children in Europe may have disappeared, in Europe – we're not talking about Burundi – in Europe, and we're not moving a tab, and above all information on headlines can be used for very different purposes, of exploitation, of all kinds, and we're not moving a muscle. But we have a very serious, humanitarian problem, very serious. Today, February 24th, Rosaly was mentioned here, perhaps one of the most cited poems, and I think we all know from memory, is that of: "This goes, that goes, and everyone leaves, if they go..." Well, where are they going? From Iraq, Syria, Algeria, Afghanistan, and also from the countries of poverty. I mean, people don't go because they do, it's not a hobby to get around. People when they leave are because they have very serious problems, and in conflict countries problems can cost their lives. And possibly all of your lords would see dramatic images in front of a wire in which they passed and others would not, depending on the country they came from, simply by a political criterion, or another picture where a child or a baby tried to pass it through wires. Anyway, the German Government has announced at that moment of collective emotion that we were going to do a lot of things and we were the first in the world. Even his advisor at that time asked to be present in this House, Mrs. Beatriz Mato. The appearance was there, no one from the Government came here to realize all that. We have tabled an amendment, Mr. Ron, on which we have asked for something we have already done, because practically everything is said and done on this subject. In September, the Congress of Deputies unanimously adopted an agreement to urge the Government to raise certain issues, the People's Party also voted on it, and these issues refer to the reception of immigrants, to the attention of children, to promote the conditions to establish itself here, but also to modify and to collaborate with countries issuing these people, in which it is unbearable to live there and that is why they are going to change the conditions. There are political reasons, geostrategic reasons, there are economic reasons, but there are above all reasons for humanity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u180	...and I think today what we should throw is a message of humanity. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u182	The so-called refugee crisis has generated awareness in our society, not only of the terrible consequences of millions of people suffering from the armed conflict in Syria and other forgotten conflicts, but also of the disastrous consequences of the migration policies of control of the European Union and its Member States, which put the Mafias – when not death – hundreds of thousands of people fleeing their countries seeking the protection and security of Europe. And on the other hand, the governments of countries, far from solidarity, continue to hold speeches and alarms that fuel racist and xenophobic feelings on our continent. Alarm at the distribution of so-called quotas of tens of thousands of refugees and refugees, turning them into merchandise that no one wants. And here we seem to have no memory of our history. Almost 700,000 people submitted asylum applications in the major countries of Europe, North America, Oceania and Asia in the first half of 2005, according to Acnur's data. In the Spanish State, 4,723 applications were received in the same period. The countries of origin of these people are mainly Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, Eritrea, Pakistan, Somalia, Ukraine, etc. The Spanish State violates article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states that, in the event of persecution, everyone has the right to seek asylum, to enjoy it, in any country. This is one of the treaties signed by the countries of the European Union, which are currently affecting it. It also forgets the 51st Geneva Convention, which represents the foundation of international protection for refugees. Nor does Article 3.4 of the Spanish Constitution, nor does it comply with the Law on Foreign Affairs, which states that a person may be an asylum seeker even if he does not have a visa to remain in the Spanish State. The Fundación Avogatía Española also denounces that the Royal Decree 1325/2003, which also provides for emergency and evacuation procedures from the source, including the granting of humanitarian visas and safe havens, documentation and residence and work permits, social aid and regrouping. This decree has mocked, ignoring the calls from Turkey and Lebanon that have been taking place for months. As the refugees themselves report, they were forced to risk their lives by land and sea, not being granted asylum from their country of origin. Above all, we take into account the special case of women and refugee children, who suffer violence, aggression, exploitation and sexual harassment, even in European territory. And we're not just going to look at the shames of other countries, because we must also focus our attention on the border of the Spanish State, the southern border. It is denouncing the speech that incites hostility and fear, such as the great voids and the shortcomings of the Spanish Government, in terms of welcoming and social integration, both of immigrants and refugees. Hundreds of families, almost all Syrians, who are supposed to be entitled to access asylum offices located on border crossings, denied to sub-Saharan people in turn, are blocked in the city of Nador; few and few pass, and all of them must pay large amounts to passersby or Mafia. People arriving in Ceuta and Melilla are confined to the temporary residence centers of immigrants, the so-called CETI, in unacceptable conditions and with excess people. There is no legal guidance service, nor do they receive specific and personalized information about the protection provided to them by Spain or the European asylum application processing framework. During those months their passage to the Peninsula is not allowed, they are held in the CETI, which function like a plug or a funnel, which ignores the obligations of receiving and protecting refugees, according to the European legal framework. In this way they will arrive to penguins, after spending periods ranging between forty-five days and several months in Melilla or Ceuta, to come to stop public resources that are not always sheltered and sheltered centres, which mostly leave in a few days. For all these people, the Spanish State is clear that it is not a land of hospitality. The coordination of institutions, which does not take part in people's urgent needs, is urgently needed, leaving this work to individual volunteering and NGOs. In Galicia there were initiatives at the local level of offer for this reception, mobilising institutional and social resources, and then the Union added to this in a domino effect. But no one's here. And I have to remember that Cerna, through the Joint Group, has presented an initiative for the immediate admission of 1,000 refugees and refugees on the Greek soil. In the face of the gravity of the situation – and to finish – we want to join the European call to be held this 27th February, in which a safe passage will be demanded already, to avoid the constant violations of human rights and the deaths that come suffering, who only want to restore their life away from horror and persecution. We're going to support AGE's non-law proposal and we also welcome and support the amendments tabled by the BNG and the PSOE. We understand that it is a very urgent matter in this society, which is increasingly dehumanized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is currently facing a humanitarian challenge with the displacement of thousands of people fleeing the war. Five years of war cause millions of people to leave their homes, more than 11 million, most of them displaced within their own country, but more than 4 million outside their borders, and more and more people come to our countries seeking security, freedom and human rights. Today we knew that in our past year 100,000 people, as well as in the first half of last year. In the face of this emergency situation, of incalculable dimensions, we cannot stand with our arms crossed in the face of the dramatic consequences of the war conflict that has lasted for five years. This crisis is complex, it has various causes, but we are to play a role, and we have to help in the solutions, solutions in the political and economic sectors, but also in the humanitarian agenda, solutions that force all Europe, all Spaniards and therefore also all the Greeks; serious, solidarity and coordinated solutions, fleeing electoralisms, populisms and nationalism, who want to lift new sheets of steel, new walls, new racisms. The Government of Spain, ladies and gentlemen, has demonstrated its willingness to deal with this crisis, and has committed itself to welcoming refugees who have proposed to relocate the European Union. An inter-ministerial team was set up, called the sectoral conference, to act in accordance with European decisions and also in agreement with the initiative adopted unanimously in the Congress of Deputies; an initiative referred to by the Socialist Party in its amendment, and also the Left Galaga Alternative, just to remember what not to do. However, that's what the Galician Nationalist Block does. This initiative asked not to use refugees as a political confrontation. It is true that sometimes it seems that this is simply a politically correct argument. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement has achieved unanimity, because the congressmen wanted to prioritize reception and integration and promote cooperation and cooperation between administrations, cooperation and essential collaboration. I will not fall, as is being done by some of the actors, in party readings, in sectarian interpretations or opportunistic electoralisms. That's why, precisely, it was agreed not to use refugees in political confrontation. And I'm going to focus my efforts on the management of transfer, reception and integration of applicants for international protection. In addition, a first decree of extraordinary aid was adopted to suit the assistance network, and more than EUR 250 million had already been strengthened in the budget debate. In Galicia it was the President of the Galician Union who advanced an assistance offer for public services and facilities, an offer that the Government of Greece placed in the reception plan, drawing up a map of resources from our Community, of resources from the autonomous administration, but not only, other administrations, locations, NGOs, as well as families who had communicated their willingness to collaborate on this device. The order of social initiative entities increased by 85 per cent; the order of municipalities increased by 123 per cent; it trained to be able to work when refugees arrive at reception, reception, but also to achieve employment integration and, ultimately, to have an autonomous life and the best of integrations. And we, the Greeks, are ready to do so, and that's why we will support your initiative. But let's not be mistaken, even if the European Union can and should give a quick and adequate response, member states are not doing so. It is necessary to act and do so in common, under the principles of solidarity and responsibility, consistent with the need for Europe to have a common, stable and lasting policy, and to respond to the needs of refugees. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is not less Europe, but more Europe. A Europe in which it calls for a mechanism for the sharing of refugees among its members...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u186	...to enable you to cope with the flow of arrivals. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u187	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Owning group of the initiative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u188	Well, if I understand the majority group will support this initiative, the other opposition groups too; therefore, in order to preserve the possible unanimity, I will say that I will accept the amendment of the PSdEG, because it responds to what has been agreed in Parliament and the Congress of Deputies, and I will not accept that of the BNG, in case this can cause the majority group to turn away from unanimity. I can simply say that from AGE we will be vigilant, permanently, as we have been doing since we started this session, and we will be constantly insisting, asking, reviewing and seeing how much reality this plan embraces, if it materializes itself, because it's good to have a resource map, but that resource map has to have reality and has to have lives behind; the lives of people we hold, we integrate, in an integral way. Because it is true that a stable common policy is missing, but also integral and lasting. Therefore, thank the support of the whole world for this initiative, which allows us to regain the path of humanity, the humanitarian character that guides us as a people. The Greek people are an emigrant people, they are an exiled people in the diaspora, and therefore who is better than the Greek people to say that we are a welcoming people, a solidarity people and a people who will integrate people who proceed in relocation and resettlement quotas. We have to say that we have to differentiate from the general asylum aspect, which is often mixed up, but we know perfectly well that in Spain it is quite restrictive, and, therefore, it is also necessary to make progress and much improvement, so that Spain is not, precisely, from the countries that are in the queue truck to overcome these 384 accepted asylum applications for refugees. We understand that there have to be a lot more, because there are thousands of people waiting on the perimeters of borders across Europe to be able to enter into that dream that was before Europe of human rights. You talked about security, freedom, human rights, because in order for this to happen we have to establish a more humanitarian entry policy and, of course, less fortified, less electrified, and prevent children from dying in the Mediterranean sea, or exploiting and violating the rights of people, women from all over the world on the perimeters of this frontier of dreams, but which is being the frontier of nightmare for many people. Nothing else, thank you for the support of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u190	We've come to the vote on non-law proposals. We started with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the implementation and management of proximity rail services in Galicia. No amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government for the launch and management of nearby railway services in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u191	We then vote on the proposal for a non-law of the Joint Parliamentary Group in relation to the VAT which is being applied to the products of women's intimate hygiene. A vote was requested by points which seem to have been expressed by the rapporteur who is willing to accept. [[Assentment.]] Vote of point 1 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government in relation to the VAT that is being applied to the products of intimate female hygiene. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. This point was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u192	We then vote on the second point of this not-law proposal. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government in relation to the VAT that is being applied to the products of intimate female hygiene. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u193	We then vote on the Non-Legal Proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on the inclusion of the Calixtino Code in the UNESCO World Memory Record. The rapporteur has already stated that he did not accept the amendment to the Nationalist Block in Wales. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Agustín Baamonde Díaz and six other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the procedures for the inclusion of the Calixtino Codex in the UNESCO World Memory Record. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u194	We are now voting on the proposal for a non-law of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the recommendations reflected in the last report of the Committee of Experts on the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages on the use of the Greek language. No amendments have been tabled, we therefore vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the recommendations reflected in the last report of the Committee of Experts on the European Charter of Regional or Minority on the use of the Greek language. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u195	We now vote on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group on the extension of the grant of Ence in Lourizán, in the Pontevedra River. He accepts, as the rapporteur said, the amendment of the Joint Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and two other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the decision to extend the extension of the grant of Ence in Lourizán for 60 years in the Pontevedra River. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u196	We are now voting on the proposal for a non-law of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the bidding by the Government of Greece for works on road reform PO-531. They did not accept the amendments, according to the rapporteur. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jacobo Moreira Ferro and Mr. Alejandro Gómez Alonso, on the bidding by the Greek Government of the works of road reform PO-531, on the Pontevedra-Curro stretch, and the prioritization of the most necessary points for the improvement of road safety. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u197	Finally, we are voting on the Non-Legal Proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative on the management to be carried out before the Central Government for the development of the Plan for the Reception and Integration of Refugee Persons from Syria and other countries in war or conflict. The rapporteur has already stated that he does not accept and amend the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and that he does accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr José Javier Ron Fernández and five other Members, on the realization by the Government of the Greek Government of the necessary management to the Central Government for the development of the Plan for the Reception and Integration of Refugees from Syria and other countries in war or conflict. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u198	We open the doors and continue with the seventh point of the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Da María Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Mixed on the practice of prostitution in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u199	Mrs Martínez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u200	Thank you, President. Today we bring this questioning on a subject that is usually quiet, covered and forgotten, forgotten by all and by all, that is prostitution. To understand gender violence, we must recognize that it feeds on institutional violence, actions or omissions carried out by state governments, self-government and their authorities. Even today when talking about violence against women, it is not visible that we are faced with violations of rights in which the State can be directly authored by action or omission, or in which it may have responsibility, from wage discrimination committed to the lack of protection of women who denounce the aggressor. As the last masculine murder in Zaragoza, in which there was the denunciation and order of 500 meters away. And we've already had 12 women killed in 2016. In 1993 the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women, of the United Nations General Assembly, specified that one form of physical, sexual or psychological violence was that perpetrated by the State itself. Neither the Spanish State nor the autonomous laws do, however, include definitions of institutional violence. The fundamental absence remains the lack of explicit legal recognition in state and autonomous law that there are forms of institutional violence against women and that constitute a part of patriarchal violence. This is the explanation that only in 36% of reported gender violence cases the file ends up in a conviction of the alleged aggressor. Of these 36 per cent cases that end in conviction, 56.45 per cent of the cases apply the suspension of sentence, i.e. virtually no aggressor performs the sentence. In the rest of the alleged, 64%, the victim's legal demand ends well with a substance in 30.4% of the cases, or in the absolution, in 33.5% of the cases. In this sense, Rebecca Cook points out: when a state applies, executes or perpetuates a gender stereotype in its political, public or practical laws, it institutionalizes it by giving it the strength of the authority of law and custom. Among the social and psychological obstacles faced by women are the normalization of gender-based violence, the feeling of shame, guilt and emotional blockade, the protection of children and children and the discouraging messages of family and social environment. One of the factors most women talk about is fear of the attacker's reaction and lack of economic autonomy. In the case of migrant women in an irregular situation, they add to these problems the Aliens Act, which establishes their expulsion if after denouncing gender violence they cannot believe the facts in the criminal proceedings, and as we have already looked at in the criminal proceedings it is very difficult for a woman to get the aggressor to be convicted. This normative context is used by the aggressors to discourage complaints and aggression, and in other words, the law is an instrument that uses the aggressors for their impunity. The situation of women is still more vulnerable in the case of women sex workers, murdered by their clients, who are not considered by law as victims of gender-based violence and therefore do not count on gender-based violence statistics, because for the Government they are not. Death is only the most serious manifestation of violence against women. In the world of prostitution, there is so much psychological and physical abuse. It's an intruder who feeds on the unequal relationship between the pimp and the women who are subjected. Over the years, however, the causes that lead women to the practice of prostitution have not changed: socio-economic factors and lack of opportunity. In the 1980s street prostitution in our country was mostly exercised by Spanish or Portuguese women, with a low educational and economic level, from families in a situation of marginality or social exclusion, and in many cases victims of drug addiction. Currently, 90% of the women who practice prostitution in our country are not Spanish, and most of them are irregular immigrant women who are threatened by mafia and pimps. These women live the consequences of the exercise of prostitution, the deterioration of their physical and emotional health, sleep and food disorders, social isolation, stigmatization, anxiety, xynecological problems, the risk of contracting sexually transmitted diseases, unwanted pregnancies. Prostitution has its most cruel face in trafficking in women and children, but also sexual violence, coercion, discrimination and abuse are the countless aristocrats who possess gender-based violence, but we never give them the same treatment when they occur in a context of prostitution. It's disturbing that the solidarity we feel when a woman is mistreated doesn't feel the same as when she's a prostitute. The United Nations and various international organizations speak of gender-based violence as any violent act that results or may result in physical, sexual or psychological harm to women, including threats to such acts, arbitrary coercion or deprivation of liberty, including sexual assault, prostitution, sexual exploitation, ablation and trafficking in persons. What happens at the club stays at the club. This phrase reflects reality: impunity and opacity that represents sexual exploitation in our country. In the case of sexual trafficking, everyone is clear that we must fight against it and that it is a violation of human rights. And according to the United Nations Organization against Drugs and Crime, one in seven women who engage in prostitution is a victim of trafficking. However, the public debate on prostitution has presented us on most occasions disconnected from this evidence, causing society, in general, and institutions, in particular, to react against the victims, considering them golfing, unrecommendable, negative to the neighborhood... instead of obtaining solidarity and social support. Not in Spain and Galicia, the identification figures for victims of sexual trafficking are ridiculous. The Greek NGOs detected 2,000 victims in two years, while the State Security Forces and Corps speak of a couple of cases. Spain is the European country where paying sex is most consumed, one in four Spaniards recognises having sex paid. It is estimated that, approximately, in the Spanish state, there are between 300,000 and 400,000 women engaged in prostitution, one of which is one of the countries where the consumption of prostitution is less despicable. Customers are invisible and nobody harasses them or bothers them, despite the fact that they are known to take advantage of poverty, vulnerability and slavery. Surveys show that about 5% of women who engage in prostitution claim to do so voluntarily, the rest of them 95 percent do so necessarily. In the case of foreign women, victims of trafficking and who are in an irregular situation, the Spanish law allows them to obtain the temporary residence permit if the network is denounced and collaborates in disarticulation, but only 1% of women file the complaint because they claim that the police and the Civil Guard do not provide them with the necessary guarantees so that their little girls or their own mobs do not kill them, persecute them or their families. They come here threatened and that threat does not disappear with the protection of the Civil Guard or the State Security Forces. Since prevention and combating trafficking in persons, as well as measures to be taken for the protection of victims of gender violence by mafia and child abuse, should begin by analyzing the current situation, that is why I ask you: how many places in Galicia are there where prostitution is practiced?, do you know Junta the number of women who are engaged in prostitution in Galicia?, do you know Junta the number of women and girls coming to Galicia who are victims of trafficking in persons for prostitution?, how many women have left in Galicia the prostitution in recent years as a result of the actions of the Administration?, what kind of support actions are women victims of sexual exploitation who are practicing in Galicia and what is the result?, what budget will you spend on Joina this year 2006 on fighting prostitution and trafficking in people?, what kind of training is given to women victims of sexual exploitation? I understand that these are questions necessary to start establishing a relationship of actions that benefit these women, who seek to offer them the means to get out of this world of prostitution and slavery, and I hope you will have answers to these questions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Martínez, the Government is asking about sexual exploitation through prostitution and trafficking. You said it's a matter of what to talk about, I fully agree, that often it's silent, but that unfortunately it's there and therefore I think it's a good initiative – for its part, of course – and the Government's obligation is to come to respond to something that, will agree with me, it's not a single problem, nor much less so, I wish it had been so!, it would be much easier to end it, but they're a number of problems and, in addition, all of enormous complexity. Here are many causes, they have a transnational character, increasingly – you said it yourself – there are criminal networks, without any doubt, that surround all this and therefore I think it is very good – as I told you – to talk about this and not leave it silent. Here we speak of human rights; we speak – and I fully agree – of gender-based violence in the vast majority of cases; we talk of actions that move or in legality, often in illegality, sometimes in formal legality, but are either an allegation or illegal. But in any case, this makes it very difficult to know the real magnitude, that it is very difficult, in many cases, to identify the victims, or that there are victims, these victims – you said too – are those who, according to the legal procedures that exist right now, believe the situation they are suffering. So, you, in your plea, refer to initiatives made in other countries, specifically the case of Sweden, the experience and the resolutions that were held there. In the end, he actually asks a series of specific questions for some of which I have answers, because they are the competence of the Galician Union, and which is not a question of competition, is that it allows us to have the data that you ask me for; others are not competition, at least directly, of the Galician Union, and therefore I don't have that exact data, the exact data that you ask me for; some of the data, of course, very difficult to obtain, as many studies have believed that acquitting this lacquer in numbers is nothing easy, and much less in the exact numbers that you ask for. Therefore, regarding the number of places where prostitution is practised in Galicia, the number of women who are engaged in prostitution and the number of women and girls who have arrived in Galicia as victims of the trafficking network of persons for prostitution, the Council of Galicia does not have these data, and I do not know who is competent, the General Administration of the State. In any case, I'm telling you, because of those studies that you handle, and I too, those same studies recognize that giving those figures and giving them in a reliable way – unfortunately and today – is nothing easy, though not practically impossible. As far as our competences are concerned, and therefore data, also very important, I can give you data on the attention that the Galician Union is obliged to lend, and lend, to these people, to these women, mainly. You know that in 2010 Galicia was the first autonomous community to sign the Institutional Action Protocol to take measures to prevent, investigate and treat women who were victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. We signed this protocol to Junta de Galicia, and the president in his representation, and the senior prosecutor of Galicia, and since the signing of this protocol – which was then followed years later, in 2013 by Catalonia, and in 2015 by the Autonomous Community of Extremes, and by no autonomous community more to date – today it has been possible to begin actions, to sign collaboration agreements with non-profit entities; by the way, they are responsible for carrying out care programmes for these women, and that they are – as you said – mostly immigrant women, a very high percentage of those who are in situations of prostitution or deal with sexual exploitation. The entities are, in particular, ten: Acdem, Adorators Ourense, Caritas Lugo, Aliad-Ultreia, Caritas Ourense, Caritas Santiago, Red Cross, Ecos do Sur, Faraxa, Doctors do Mundo and Oblates de Ferrol. They all count, before the signing of this protocol, with extensive experience, but also with the support of the administrations, with the support of the Galician Board and with the support of the State Attorney General's Office to assist these women victims and to help them recover, social and labour integration and, ultimately, to achieve – as it is much easier to say than to achieve – their recovery and their integral integration, is worth redundancy. By means of captures, advising, supporting and informing women about the resources of all kinds they contain, mainly social and legal, accompanying them to carry out administrative and bureaucratic procedures that allow them to integrate and come out of their situation and often believe their status as victims; by creating, maintaining, encouraging and supporting groups that – at the end – seek to find a meeting, exchange, support for these women, training of social mediators to support these women; developing the potentials and capacities that undoubtedly have these women and which should therefore be encouraged to help them, precisely, to get out of the situation: socializing them, educating them, training them, and integrating them. And awareness raising, too, is a very important issue when we talk about sexual exploitation and trafficking, raising awareness among society about the situation of these women, about this scourge and the consequences of their suffering. I think you know the performances of these groups through their appearances in the Equality Commission, I think no one is questioning their work. Galician Union itself recognized it in 2015 with the Spanish medal for the Galician Network against Trafficking, and therefore all we can do is express our commitment outside of any government, of any political colour, to continue with this support which, I insist, began pioneering in 2010 in Galicia and which continues until today. You ask me for figures: 27,404 people – in your vast majority of women, and in your vast majority of immigrant women – have been met through these agreements, and this year we are going to increase – I hope it was not necessary, but it is necessary – the budget devoted to this end by almost 30%. Apart from that, to make it clear to these women – and that is why it is so important to enhance the existence of the ICDs and their work – that the women who suffer, who are victims of trafficking, come close to these resources and to the ICDs. All resources, but I'm telling the CIM because they're especially close to their presence in many municipalities, which approach to pose their situation. To get help we put in service in 2011 a remote translation service to 51 languages, being precisely aware that they are in their foreign majority, but above all knowing that CIMs are an entry door to start solving the problems, to start solving them from the Administration and offer them some sort of exit. Ask me, too, and I can also give you data, on the formation of the various civil servants of the Public Service. Very quickly, and if I had given myself time in the replica, I would also extend it. Yesterday we adopted in the Interdepartmental Commission on Equality a draft decree to regulate training in the field of equality and gender-based violence of the staff of the Galician Union, a comprehensive training. And no doubt continuing training in the field of equality and fighting against gender-based violence will further empower men and women working in the Galician Public Administration to be able to address these situations as well. We are Spain's first Autonomous Community that will make a project of comprehensive decree, and that, of course, will go to see from now on much more that training of workers and public workers. Also, the Galician School of Public Administration, as a centre most directly obliged to give this training, makes specific training, treats gender violence directed to the staff of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and also includes several training courses on gender and equality violence, often cross-sectionally; I say so because there are larger courses modules specifically dedicated to this purpose. In 2015, for the last year, 15 activities in which a total of 400 hours were provided and 630 persons were trained. Ask me, too, about training in the field of justice. You know that our direct competition and our responsibility is our staff – who are not judges, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice – and two editions of a gender and family violence course were held in 2015 and 100 people participated in these courses, 30 hours of training. Then there were non-specific courses in which gender-related training modules were provided, however, 14, and nearly 600 students and students were able to form content with regard to gender, equality, non-discriminatory language and attention to victims of gender-based violence. With regard to the formation of judges and prosecutors, since it depends on the Judiciary Council, we have signed a collaboration agreement from the Galician Union, apart from the specific training they give, and in this framework during the year 2015, 65 places have been offered for training activities on matters such as the Victim's Status Act, the prosecution of crimes or the treatment of crimes of sexual abuse to minors in the media. Finally, the Galega Academy of Public Security, except in 2015, 8 training activities on gender-based violence, on the treatment of victims of the same, preferably directed to the personnel of the police unit, the autonomic police, as well as local police. 215 teaching hours and with an exact number of 1,013 squares. Training, psychological aspects that need to be taken into account and must be known in contact with women victims of gender-based violence, women victims of trafficking – novelties introduced, for example, in the Statute for the Victim of Crime and in the reform of the Criminal Code – good practices to communicate with foreign victims, through interpreters, procedural protection – that these women understand themselves from the very first moment – and other contents. Finally, I think it's never enough training, of course, but training in which it's happening, which has to continue to increase. Apart from the support provided from the social issue of the Galician Union, from the support provided when these women demand it in health situations that often require it, from the powers of the Vice-Presidentship, and specific support to non-profit organisations, NGOs and entities – which have long been dedicated to helping women who suffer, who are victims of trafficking – we will increase support this year. No doubt, neither the Council of Galicia, nor probably any administration, without the awareness of society, will be able to put an end to this scourge, but I say again, and I tell you with all sincerity, that we speak of this matter, and that one asks the Government what it is doing or that it is contributing to end this problem, I think it is good, and I take it and thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u203	Thank you, Vice President. Replica Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u204	Mr. Vice-President, you said, unfortunately, it's there. But it's not unfortunately there because it has to be and it's something that can't be changed, it's there as a result of macho policies, macho legislation and abuse of power that men hold over women historically. So it's the result of a concept of the world, which has only the interests of one genre and not another. Therefore, a male world that judges women according to their male vision, and women we are totally out of legislation. So, justice is not fair to us, so that unfortunately it is, unfortunately, because we consent that there is still prostitution. That is the reality, because we consent to it in this macho society. I was presenting at the initiative the situation in Sweden, that is the attitude I understand that we have to take. I mean, women who are engaged in sex work, selling their bodies for sex, not vice, or because they have nothing else to do, because they are driven out of the world of work, because we charge less than men, because we have less rights, even though the People's Party votes over and over again that women continue to charge less than men. And that's what I was saying when I was talking about institutional violence against women. One might say that the law says we all have to charge the same, but if the Government keeps that pay gap and does nothing to eliminate it, and votes against all the initiative that will end with that discrimination, what is moving it to society is – and above all to men, and above all to young men, who are almost more dangerous – that they are different, that they are inferior. That's why they have to charge less. That's why they must give us pleasure, and they're there to give us pleasure, and men can use them in exchange for money. That's why under that mission and that concept of what the woman is, it's understood that the People's Party does not condemn Mr. Baltar's attitude in Ourense, offering jobs for sex. That's consent, that's a message to society that women can be treated as sexual objects, that doesn't happen. You were talking about the 2010 protocol, and I think it was a breakthrough, and it seems to me that NGOs are doing an important job in this area, but what's missing is the work of the administration itself. What does the Administration offer them when these women are cared for by NGOs and arrive at the administration and tell them: I just left the child lying down, I'm going to report it, I need a salary, a home for myself and my children? What do you say to the Government? What protection do these women have more than come back to the pimp, to stay in their lives? So I think that's really the important thing, to know that you're willing to do the administration. You were talking about sensitization of society, I don't see it anywhere, I don't know if my comrades – both opposition and the People's Party – have heard a lot of campaigns to raise awareness about the lives of women engaged in sex work. I don't think I've looked at any, no recognition, no secret of favoring these women. In formation, I'm done, I'm running out of time. The other day we had the attendance of the Galician School of Public Administration, I really criticized the lack of training on this issue, especially on the ground of teaching and justice. There's no training, they're little courses for a few hours and those who get very little personal access, just like in the field of health. I also regret that you had this question on the table for a week ago had not been addressed to the State Government to see if you have any data on Galicia, this data that says they depend on the state. Nor did she question me how many women, thanks to the Welsh administration and their performance, have left prostitution in Galicia in recent years. He didn't answer me either. What support is being given to these women, and what is the result of it. We have no results, you told me the NGOs, I think that work, I tell you, support, but what is the result? As a colophon, you've got Junta these years in favor of these women who are sexually exploited, who are sex slaves of mafia and pimps...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u206	...and what are they used from great lords, and we have cases – in Vigo we had one not many years ago – with judges, police, politicians and everything, using prostitution. 1 out of 4 men uses prostitution in this country. That's not a disgrace, that's education, that's the value that women are given to society, and that's what my question was about. If you can answer any of the questions that have not been answered, I thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Closing time, Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, as I'm done, I don't want to think that you brought this interpellation here today to make politics, despite some allusion you made, not even to say, and if you said so, he said it, but I don't know if I understood him well. I do not agree that this is the only cause that there is prostitution because of Machist policies, or at least not because of the Machist policies exclusively; because to say that is so much as to ignore what I said at the beginning of my intervention, that here are problems of trafficking in persons, problems of legality, illegalities and allegialities, which are the ones that keep this whole fence in limbo, sometimes juridical, where it is kept, and from there come the problems to be able to believe the conditions, often, of the victims. You know perfectly well, although it's a minority compared to the suffering of women, who also have male prostitution, and therefore can't be unknown. In the end, we talk about people, we don't talk about macho policies, nor about policies of any particular party. I'm saying this because if we don't understand this it'll be impossible to find a solution. Tell me you're unfortunately there, and I don't think you like anyone at all, and if you recognize it as gender-based violence that continues to happen, it's a collective failure and, therefore, it will be a collective task to start solving this huge problem, so education and equality is so important. I told him that yesterday we passed a decree, that we could have done it long before, probably, but we are also the first autonomous community that does an integral training in the field of equality, so that all public workers and workers can make it clear that this is a cross-cutting issue and that there is no proper training if equality is not absolutely transversal. I don't have a magic wand, you don't have a government, Mrs. Martínez, if you think you have a magic wand or a magic solution to end this problem, really, give it to any government, to any administration, which will undoubtedly apply right away. I've already said that focusing only on macho policies, or focusing only on a specific cause, doesn't help or will help. I understand that you... I say that's not what I meant, and that I didn't mean that in the part that I interpreted to you wrong. You know, by going back to the example I was setting, the example of Sweden, which after twenty years of studies, and you said so in your inquiry, came to a conclusion, and it turns out it's the opposite. I'm talking about how to deal with the problem they came to, for example, in Holland, which I think is also an example of very advanced policies in some countries that address the problem of prostitution in a different way than they do in Sweden. So, each one, I'm sure all the countries, at least all the advanced countries, are or are doing our best to try to move forward. I'm telling you, we know the statistics as you know them, we know the studies, for example the most serious study done by United Nations offices, which says that only 1 out of every 20 potential victims of trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation. I'm saying it's hard to point out concrete data and point out how many women are suffering from this problem, and above all how many women can suffer it. I also gave him the data of 27,000 people assisted by this network that supports the Galician Union: of course many of them, fortunately, many thousands of people – but we are also talking about six years, which is enough time – have been able to get out of this situation thanks to this initial support, which is fundamental, because if there is no initial contact after it is very difficult to continue helping all these women and their children, who is also very important; for from there they receive the help of the Galician Union, and can be believed a situation of gender violence – which is sometimes not easy, precisely because of the difficulties they have in moving in that limb of claim that there are many times – they can access the help for housing of the Galician Union. They can, of course, access that without any discussion, to health care, and could access a lot more help, and there should be a lot more help. But, I tell you, here you'll have to go little by little, you'll have to go between you all. You say you don't perceive enough awareness or enough campaigns, because too much reason to continue to persevere, to make it clear at once – and that's another debate – that you have to recognize, and I have my personal position, as you certainly have, but you never just made it clear whether or not you advertise prostitution activities in the media, and that's already the subject of debate. This Parliament has already spoken, by the way, that my party has spoken at national level, but I suppose if it is a matter that is not so clear, because not everyone is clear and no determinations are made, that in my opinion and from my point of view should have been clear for a long time. I am therefore grateful that we are talking about this, even though, as always, there are certain Members who, as they do not say what they think, do not like what they are saying. Let's not be political about this, there are some who will never be able to follow that guideline, which I think will help everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] So let's keep talking about the times that this problem is needed, to see if we ever say without magic veins that if we don't eradicate it, at least we've been able to reduce it enormously. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u209	Thank you, Vice President. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u210	Let's resume the session. D. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to encourage the learning of foreign languages among students, such as the continuing training of language teachers, and to equip educational centres with the human and material means necessary to achieve this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u211	To formulate the plea, Mr. Docasar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u212	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor, good afternoon. I want to start this speech by saying that I am absolutely convinced that neither the Greeks nor the whole of Spain are dumber than the rest of Europe's citizens. And if this is what I say – and I firmly believe it is – how do we explain then the problems that we have in the Greeks and the set of Spanish to learn foreign languages? I tell you in, Mr. Rodríguez, that the socialists do this interpellation with a total constructive aim; we want to tell you these things that we understand if they are doing wrong, but we also want to tell you how we think they could do better, showing – once again – that we are a party with will and a government vocation. We therefore hope to have a peaceful debate with you, and we also hope that you will have enough humility and ability to listen to the proposals for improvement that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will make to you. Counsellor, in the last few days I have talked about this matter with different professionals who teach foreign languages in our educational centres, so that they can first-hand know their opinions and bring them to this debate. The Socialist Group has been critical of your foreign language learning policy. Yes, with that policy, and again centered on the shrine of the Pearls. No one doubts that foreign language learning has become a fundamental issue for both young and adult alike in recent times. And nobody doubts, either, that foreign language learning opens or closes doors for access to the demanding labour market in the times we're living. That is why this initiative of the Socialist Group seeks, first of all, counsellor, to reflect quietly on this matter, but seeks to do so without traps, without demagogy and in a spirit of correcting existing evasiveness. In a global context where population mobility is increasing, it seems reasonable to think that one of the educational priorities should be that Spanish and Greek youth dominates a first foreign language, and at least that it reaches a good level, too, a second level. As is certainly true in most countries of the European Union to which we say that we must look like ourselves. It is clear, Counselor, that the linguistic competition of our student is improving very slowly. But it would also be good to recognize that there is a long way to go to match with the rest of European countries. Curriculums of our education system must be updated to avoid repetitive content and to prevent foreign language students from having the strange feeling that they are always studying the same thing. More priority should be given, Counsellor, expression and oral understanding, and Spanish or Welsh languages should only be used as support for the learning process of foreign languages at very timely times of classes. I tell you a little experience here. I was a reader at two French schools in Champagne, in the city of Reims. I remember the first time I got to school, being a very young boy, that the Spanish teacher at that school told me: since the first day you talk to the boys only in Spanish, you didn't let me use the French for nothing. That points to me, and I think that's one of the fundamental mistakes we have in this country. It would therefore be desirable, Counsellor, that there were a greater number of teaching hours devoted to studying foreign languages, and it would also be very convenient for a part of that schedule to be devoted to conversational or auditory classes, in small groups, just the opposite of what you just did in LOMCE. It is therefore necessary to address a profound methodological change, more focused on all communicative skills, and to accompany it with the incorporation of ICTs and tools 2.0, 3.0 or, as my colleague Abel Losada says, 4.0, those you want. In this sense, I would like to remind you, Counselor, that when people are asked to use a number of technology resources such as the Internet, you will have to give them the chance to really have those means, and with the quality of service that we don't have right now. I take this opportunity to remind you, for the last time, of the huge digital divide that exists between city centers and rural centers, and that there is, necessarily, to correct, because this also affects – and in an important way – the study of foreign languages with the various tools point 0. I honestly believe, Counselor, that one of the pending subjects of our education system is to correct the systematic failure of our student in learning foreign languages. It is true that our students start at very early ages to study English, but it is not understandable that after spending so many hours in their academic life studying a foreign language they are unable to communicate fluently in the languages they study at the end of the educational stage. We must therefore, in a self-critical sense, analyze the causes of this linguistic failure, its origins, as well as put forward clear alternatives for the learning of foreign languages in the Spanish educational system to be at the same level as in the rest of the European educational systems to which we want to appear. Foreign languages are commonly used in business, politics, research, and, like not!, also in the workplace. And how sad it is to see our political leaders travel the world and not be able to communicate with their interlocutors without the presence of interpreters. Counsellor, according to the most prestigious researchers in language learning, it is best to start this learning in the first language at very early ages, in which we fully agree, essentially in child education, when children behave like real sponges receiving knowledge. The lack of empowering a real linguistic immersion is another factor that makes language learning not successful in our country. We must therefore seek that in language classes the only vehicle language is the foreign language, and for that the teacher must have the right level of training. A training that must be constantly updated, and here is another of the obligations of the Administration itself: to ensure the necessary permanent recycling of teachers who teach in foreign languages. Another detail that deserves our attention, Counsellor, has to do with the student's own attitude and their families on this issue, that they have to assume that in language classes the language to be used must essentially be the foreign language itself. Just as it is absolutely key, Mr Counsellor, to make the student understand the importance he has today for the promotion of foreign languages in working life. And here's a new task for you, the excessive massification of classes; it's not possible to teach, Counsellor, a foreign language with guarantees in classes that rotate or exceed 30 students per class. As no correct language learning is possible, giving so much weight to grammar learning and completely leaving aside oral skills. A clear mistake of this that I've just said is the exam of access to the university that we've had for a lot of years, because to overcome that exam, it's enough to have knowledge of grammar, lexicon and to do a little writing, and therefore the professor prepares just for that his student and not to learn to speak a language. Another aspect to underline, Counselor, would be the use of the media itself, and mainly of public television, although not only, but also private ones could help. In the case of televisions, the Administration could boost the emission of a percentage of programmatic content in other languages, so that society, and basically the most children, were getting used to watching some television programs in original versions. In the rest of Europe, and as an example of the Portuguese or French neighbours, it's quite common to watch movies, TV series or cartoons in the original version. That would certainly help the smaller ones, since at those ages it is the easiest time to learn a foreign language. And if we compare ourselves to some countries in Europe, such as France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland or Germany, we'll realize that there's a big way to go. Counsellor, if we really want to change the situation of foreign language teaching in our country, we must all make an important effort to change attitudes: administration, teacher, student and family. I believe that the problem and need of this interpellation are perfectly focused. I will therefore leave for my second turn the proposal for a battery of measures to make the learning of foreign languages in the education system more successful and we will no longer be a backward country in learning languages, because I am fully convinced that we, Counsellor, are no more foolish than the rest of the citizens of the European Union. So I hope you receive this plea in a critical but constructive sense. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Docasar. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u214	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Docasar, we therefore thank you for this initiative. We thank him first because he recognizes the importance of language learning in teaching. That in the Socialist Party is a step forward, not always so. I remember here debates when it was the presentation of the Foreign Language Empowerment Plan, where there were harsh, very hard criticisms of the Foreign Language Promotion Plan, which I will then explain and give data that I think have favored a remarkable advance in the field of education in everything that has to do with language learning. I also thank you for the opportunity to bring this matter to this House, because we are going to be able to speak out without fear of being accused of advertising to Parliament about how the Council, the Council of Galicia, is doing so to really encourage the learning of foreign languages, and you know that I always humbly listen to my interlocutors and always try to learn. Even those who are wrong, I'm trying to learn, so as not to repeat the mistakes. But using your words, let me tell you that I am convinced that the Galician Union is already doing so: it has a system and it has a model of learning that is modern, that is effective and that is rigorous, using the words that you quote in the explanatory statement. You normally said it too, and also said it in your explanatory statement, denounces, whenever it has a textual opportunity, the linguistic policy of the Galician Union. However, we think that what is being done, I insist, in a modern, effective and rigorous way is to put in place a plan for the empowerment of foreign languages, which has already begun five years ago and which is being able to significantly improve the skills in foreign languages to Greek students. True, it's true that all Spain and all Galicia have a historic language learning deficit, it's true. That's why I think it was very necessary to have a specific foreign language empowerment plan, namely English, to correct that ejaculation, that situation that young people, and not young people, have been dragging over time. Which I think empowering foreign languages is always a strategy for the future, and it's always fundamental, especially for young people, because, whether we burn it or not, we're in an increasingly globalized society, where we need to be constantly managing different languages. You tell us in your explanatory statement, and in your questioning of questions, what do we do with students, what do we do with teachers about foreign language learning? I'll say, responding to your interpellation, that what you're considering, on the one hand, is a learning that seeks to make the student autonomous, not only in foreign languages, but that there is a lot of oral management, a lot of oral understanding; that there is also a certification of knowledge and that there is also the possibility of participating, through different mobility models, in European projects, etc. There are open lines of work, there are lines of training action, there are training scenarios, there are accreditation systems. I mean, you're working directly in the field of empowerment, in students and teachers, in the management of foreign languages. You know it perfectly well, because you know the foreign language empowerment plan, and you know it well because I, in this very House, had the occasion, in the previous appearance, to explain the start of the course, of doing, we think, a very significant part to talk about the teaching of Greek in the wager of teaching by the languages, with which I'm going to say it's not a novelty, but I don't think it remains, in any case, to say it. And the data we have on the table, in all public education, are as follows: 75% of educational institutions supported by public funds participate in some of the action lines of the Foreign Language Empowerment Plan. About 40% of students – approximately 90,000 pupils – benefit directly from some of the specific actions of this plan: multilingual centres, bilingual sections, language schools, training periods. The Multilingual Centre Network had a very remarkable increase in the year in which it was launched, which was in 2010, 30 new centers. At that time there were fifty-five centers, today there are 257, we're talking about almost 36,000 students in bilingual sessions, we're talking about 3,630 bilingual managements that provide service and coverage to around 53,300 students. Native conversational assistants, who are in our educational centers, 454; almost 40 per cent of the Greek educational centers have native conversational assistants, i.e., young English or American people who come to favor everything that has to do with the management of the language in our educational centers. I think it is progressing, that there is very remarkable data in the field of the Foreign Language Empowerment Plan, and that is why I also want to thank you once again for the opportunity you offer us, too, to say that in this case, the Government of Galicia meets the mandates of this House. About a year ago a GNP was adopted in this Parliament urging the Galician Council to extend multilingualism to Vocational Training, Bachelorship and other post-war teachings. Well, by fulfilling that mandate, I can announce that there are already four centres in Galicia giving multilingualism in the field of the Bachelor's degree, and we are preparing many more to get out in very short time. I have heard you many times, Mr. Docasar, that the best system for language learning was the stays in the foreign, I have heard you many times. Without getting to the point, you will understand that, being important, it is more important – because it has a much broader and much more global character – to really enhance, what is the learning of foreign languages in the educational centers themselves. You said it, you're a French teacher, and I suppose you'll be with me, you'll be with us, in which what's really important is to empower all the schools to learn languages, bilingual sections, multilingual assistants, etc., because this is the real way in which this learning system reaches the vast majority of the student. That is, all students in the non-university educational system have the potential to enhance in their own educational center, in which they learn their compulsory, non-university, language management. You know that's tremendously socially fair, because until many years ago to strengthen language learning, families had to go to private academies, private internships had to be paid. However, with this model, which seeks to spread the learning of foreign languages to the system as a whole, it is also making itself an absolutely social function. And I'll tell you that now that foreign languages are present throughout the non-university public education system, you have to highlight the power that has acquired this modality in recent years, and that's why I tell you to miss some of your claims, considering the dynamics that have been there in recent years. In 2010 there were 58 multilingual centres, today there are 257. In 2009, there were 720 bilingual sections, and today there are 3,630 bilingual sections. And so we're seeing that there's a remarkable increase in all those actions aimed at boosting the learning of foreign languages in the whole educational system, and I think that's the most important way to be able to correct that historical deficit in which we coincide and that really exists from learning of foreign languages. And I, like you, don't think we Greeks or Spaniards are either dumber or smarter than other countries in Europe, and it's true that we have a certain weakness in language management. With which I believe that work in educational centers, with the vast majority of students, is the best way to boost learning for all. We also have specific lines of action with the professor. Since 2009, by giving a data, more than 15 million euros have been invested in specific training actions in languages for teachers, with which an amount – we understand – is significant. And look, I'm done with a simple reflection. You propose an interesting topic, a subject of debate, a subject on which I think you've made a great deal of progress in recent years, and I think what we have to do is start to be conscious, just as we were, for example, in the FP area, as you've recognized. We have to start to realize that we have a good and modern foreign language learning system, which obviously remains the road ahead, that obviously needs to be improved, but if it compares to what was four or five years ago, because I think the system has made remarkable progress. And I'm done with a media headline, who comes to tell us that something will be done well, when in this press headline it was literally said, "less historical gap with the Englishman. Galicia exceeds the European average and Spanish at the English level. A report places it among communities with a better balance sheet." I think we have a long way to go, and with total humility, and considering that we start from a complex situation and with a huge deficit, it is true that this statement is not made or...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u216	...for the People's Party, not for the Unity of Galicia, and it should lead us at least to make a reflection on this. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u217	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u218	Thank you, President. Counsellor, the Socialist Party is not suspicious of not potentiating foreign languages. Whenever he ruled both in Galicia and in Madrid, we did it with measures to support the teacher and also in support of students with language immersion projects, and believe me I know what I'm talking about. As I announced in my first speech, Counsellor, I would like to take this second turn to bring to you concrete contributions that have moved me – I insist – professional with years of experience in foreign language teaching and how it corresponds – and I say it always – to a party that has the will and vocation of government. So let's go with that battery of proposals with constructive eagerness, Counselor. A first step has to do with the teacher. You talked here about investments of 15 million euros in recent years, but what we have to guarantee is in the professor who imparts foreign languages to necessary continuing training to update their knowledge, and nothing better than empowering and financing the stays and training of this professor abroad, and exchange programs; and when that is not possible, Counsellor, you have to look for other ways of forming them, taking advantage, for example, of the great potential we have in official language schools, training centres and resources and even mentor classes, and recognize – in passing – that this training that is done to them for the purpose of a transfer contest is in access to the unique squares of the administration itself. So those would be concrete measures that have to do with the teacher. As for the student, you have to make it easier for that student who has no economic resources, but who has the capacity, to have suitable scholarships for stays in foreign countries. I still think that's the best immersion, not the immersion in the Pearls, but the immersion in countries where they can learn the language in real contact with people. Since families that have means, Counselor, and you do know it, they've been doing it for a long time, and they haven't tried to replace these stages of linguistic immersion in countries of origin -- where they learn the language in constant contact on the street, with people and with society -- and they change them for a week at the Pearls, they have nothing to do with it -- they're totally different things. The other one can do, but it's not a guarantee that we're going to fix the problem. We need to increase the educational hours of foreign languages and not cut them, as was done with LOMCE. That's a specific fact, Counsellor: hours have been cut in foreign language learning. That's not a good measure, and we have to allow a part of that schedule, of foreign language schedule, to be devoted to conversational and auditory classes, because it's the only way to improve that learning. We have to make it easier to break down into small groups in foreign language classes. With groups of 30 a language teacher can't be able to teach properly; we need to split the group, do the breaks, one part of the group in the class of theory and another class, another group, in the multimedia class, if they have it, or even in the language labs themselves. That would be a good measure, too. We need to update the curricula and enhance their oral content. It is necessary to provide the educational centres with the necessary technological tools so that foreign language classes can be provided with guarantees. It's not to be welcomed that today many teachers and teachers still have as their only means, as their only work tool, a humble radio-CD. That's no longer today, it's a subject... yes, it's still in the centers, yes, yes, believe me. I think there's still in many centers the teacher with the tape radio in front of the class, still today there's stuff like that. We must seriously enhance the study of two foreign languages, as is done – by the way – in most European countries. We must continue to increase – that if it is a good measure, and you have said it, and I have always applauded you – the presence of assistants of conversation in the educational centres, and we must do it already from the bottom stages, from childhood education, we must do it also by strictly controlling your work and trying to reach – I insist – at the first stages, because it is just where the student has the greatest ease to learn a foreign language. We must continue to increase, Mr. Counsellor – this is also another good measure – bilingual sections and multilingual centers, yes; but it's not a matter of quantity, it's a matter of quality. It's better to make fewer bilingual sections and multilingual centers, but what we do is they're of genuine quality, not so much quantity and more quality. We must enhance the acquisition of official foreign language titles, and we must also do so in rural Galicia, not only in Galicia, but also in places like Chantada, where I have asked you, and today, for the fifth time in this Parliament, to create an English section in the IES Lama das Quendas. They cannot be allowed to share foreign languages with the abuse of the misalignment of non-specialist teachers or with classes of more than 30 pupils. You have to equip the multimedia classrooms and allow those who have them to use them. We have to expand the number of centres that are being held in Galicia by the Bachelorate International, and I have also asked for it, and not only in the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra. You have to increase Erasmus scholarships and not cut them, as has been done in recent years. And look, by the way, at the success these students have in the labour market. Therefore, Counsellor, it is time to lay the foundations for improving and encouraging the study of foreign languages and thus overcome the bad position our students find in when we compare them to other European countries. The teaching of foreign languages in Galicia and Spain has great meanings that must be solved to take us, once and for all, from above that sambenith we have been dragging for too long, that a Spanish is the one who spends his whole life trying to learn English without achieving it. For my part, more than anything, thank you very much and I hope, Counselor, that these humble reflections will serve you to improve a water that has our education system, both in Galicia and in Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u219	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u220	Indeed, Mr. Docasar, the Socialist Party has a vocation for government these days, we have seen it more than ever; it is able to negotiate with the extreme left and is able to negotiate with those whom until a few days ago you called the right. He has a lot of vocation for government, but he almost comes to tell us he's equal to meat than fish, because he's kind of a political firm of his. Because once in the kitchen the fish knows the meat and in others the meat knows the fish. Because well, the vocation of government is positive, but they're not allowed to absorb with those desires of government to fall into what they're not, to fall into what I'm not at the end of what they have on their hands. And look, I would also tell you, Mr. Docasar – this spirit of information exchange, I think positive – that is in a little mess. [[Murmurs.]] Not long ago, not even many hours ago, I heard an authorized spokesperson from his group saying that there was still much more to boost the teaching of Greek, the teaching of the Greek language in the educational centers. Now you tell us that what we have to do is have more hours of foreign languages. They tell us again that we have to have an educational system that is immersion; they criticize us again the trilingual and multilingual model that we set in motion. And this morning you signed a document with Citizens, and I'm going to tell you what you say in the field of multilingual teaching this document, I'm going to read textually. That's what the website puts on, I don't know if it's, say, the Socialist Party's verdict or not. But what if it says is that of the pact of the Socialist Party and of Citizens, and said – he read in Spanish, because he was in Spanish, I am allowed: "We propose to establish a bilingual or trilingual model of education by adding a foreign language, preferably English, to the official or officers of each autonomous community, respecting the competences of each autonomy to establish the weight of each language in school hours." You say this, this is the decree of multilingualism that you, the Socialist Party, want to derogate, and they just signed it in Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] I understand that this is against the Nationalist Block, the Tides, it's normal, but you can't agree to override the decree of multilingualism when you've just signed something that is exactly the same as the decree of multilingualism. [[Applause]] With which, Mr. Docasar, when you say they have a vocation of government, they have it, and their vocation of government you are at any price, and he is equal to meat than fish, and he is equal to one ideological line than another, because his vocation of government leads him to what he takes, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Well, you also quoted because the Pearls did some sort of common cause against the Pearls, as if what was learned there was wrong. Man, it's true. I'm going to admit that you sent more foreign students to study languages, because they had more money, no doubt, much more money -- another thing was how they used it -- but don't tell me you can't make a linguistic dive into the Pearls compound, similar to what can be done elsewhere, similar to what can be done elsewhere, as you did in some towns inside Spain. The Socialist Party, during the Bipartite, sent students to the peoples of the interior of Spain to have linguistic dives, similar to the Pearls, and look, it shouldn't be so bad service that it lends itself to the Pearls when users have a very important level of acceptance with respect to it. Look, almost 85, 86, 94, according to the variable used, all students, families and parents, are very happy and satisfied and clearly support this learning system, which complements what is given in the classroom, and you are pleased that you recognized that you have improved in bilingual sections, in multilingual audio and language assistants. You said here – well, I said, you said it too – we are talking about nearly 500 language assistants, 500 young natives, basically, who come to our educational centers to enhance and improve what is the oral management of the language. And that's fundamental for our kids...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u222	...our children and our children, in addition to grammar, besides – let's say – on the most academic side, improve their oral understanding. Which I think we appreciate being in favour of these measures. And I'm also going to tell you that some of the things you're thinking about because I really understand it's hard for you to say them, because this season, as you know, I visit many schools and I visit many language laboratories, and I visit many multimedia classes, but not one, not two, not three, too much, with which at the technological level the progress that has been made in educational institutions with language learning has been very strong. In any case – finished, Mr. President – and with regard to the approach you have made in your interpellation, I wanted to conclude that in order to seriously encourage language learning in foreign languages to Galician Union, using your words, you are making a modern, effective and rigorous policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u223	Thank you, Counselor. Mr José Luis Méndez Romeu and 17 other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy envisaged by the Council of Galicia to reactivate the labour market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u224	To formulate the petition, Mrs. Quintas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u225	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. We have had a full job talk, we could practically say bis, right? because the reality of the precarious employment in Galicia, of the employment data, we really take them all to the full. The reality of the problems faced by the workers of Greece and Greece today is seen with the workers of the company Pellejero, but, well, it is a simple example of the working reality and precarious work that Galicia has. The People's Party, Mr Feijóo, has been ruling in Galicia for seven years, and the reality of these seven years is that we have less than 138,000 busy, less than before being president of Mr Feijóo, 60,000 unemployed and 52,000 indefinite contracts that have been lost, 37,000 temporary and 150,000 full-time. On the other hand, wages are falling free. When there's a problem in a company, when there's a problem with the workers, practically, we talked to the workers of this company this morning and they said, "Well, it's gonna be a time when we're going to have to pay for work, right? It's what you're offering to the workers and the workers of Greece, isn't it? When the German Government comes here and says that there are more jobs and that there are people who are working, the reality is that the conditions are absolutely lions and that they are practically put into the cross with many workers and workers of "stopping or nothing," right? A third of the population of Galicia – and this is not something the Socialist Party says – is something that international agencies and the data themselves, the parameters we have to measure the quality of life of the Greeks and Greeks – are at risk of poverty. The best-trained boys and girls have to emigrate. Now we were attending an interpellation by Mr Docasar, fellow Socialist Member, who was talking about linguistic immersion. I really thought the German Government was contributing to that linguistic immersion, didn't I? It hasn't happened to them yet, but, well, everything will walk. In fact, young people and young Greeks send us abroad, qualified young people, to develop jobs that are not within their qualification. After that state investment in both university and family studies in that effort, they're sent out, because here they have no chance. Those young people don't even go to the jobs. That must be linguistic immersion, right? By the way, linguistic immersion that has already passed Galicia in the 1920s, in the 1960s, in the 1970s, that linguistic immersion that is the result of poverty. And a public administration cannot allow, for lack of initiative, for lack of effort – of respect, Counselor – but for the absence of active employment policies, it cannot allow people, a generation of well-trained men and women to go abroad because they have no opportunity here. More than 45 years old, and over 55 years old, they find themselves with an unfair work reality after they have commented, contributed and found themselves unemployed without benefits and with an increasing quality of public services. That's the reality Galicia has. Effective, effective and efficient measures are not taken with regard to curbing youth unemployment, encouraging the return of these young people and correcting the demographic crisis we have. On the contrary, the German Government takes advantage of these young people who no longer trust to get up in unemployment and who no longer trust to stay a little longer here to see if they find a decent job and go away, as if their grandparents and their parents were, looking for an unworthy job on many occasions. For the German Government takes advantage of it to assume figures, which, as you well know, are made-up unemployment figures. The Socialist Group, like the other groups that are present in this House, in the amendments to the budget, I said it yesterday and I keep repeating it, I believe that the budget is the real electoral program of a government, as you said when they did the electoral campaign, which compared countries to homes, to family units. Well, in a family unit, when there's not enough budget to survive, there's no way out. For the budget is really the electoral program, it's really the government program that you have, and that budget doesn't agree with most of the publicity and propaganda of counsellors and the president of the Government of the People's Party of Galicia. As I said very well, the Socialist Group made an amendment for the Government to dedicate 192 million euros to promoting quality employment, and it could really not like the People's Party Government, you might think there were some issues that could be integrated, another that could not be integrated, in the end, to sit down and see, because when there's a drama in a country I think there's a need to sit down and see opportunities. Well, they didn't accept one, they didn't even consider it. That lack of strategy presented by the Government of the People's Party, which translates into these real results of precariousness, lack of employment and poor quality employment, we don't see – as I say – that you have strategies to curb it, do you? You made a strategic plan, which was Plan 10/14 – I said yesterday and I say it again today – and they went wrong on that plan in EUR 4 billion. Well, I don't know. I think so. Now we have a plan, which is 15-20. Well, it's over on the 15th, we're on the 16th, and the unemployment and employment quality data for January were worse than in December. So we understand that the plan doesn't work either. What remains very well is the presentation of the plan; as Mr Losada always says, advertising and propaganda, Counsellor. It's not good, Mr. Counsellor, to come here and give speeches, because from our perspective we understand – and I suppose from citizenship – that there is no conscious – and I say intentionally – real consciousness of the drama that provokes their policies. There is no real consciousness, because what happens is that these neoliberal policies we understand that they are perfectly planned to vary, on the one hand, the labour market and, on the other hand, the social structure. It's not true that this global crisis is leading us, it's not true, totally. If there is a crisis, if it is true that there is a financial crisis, if it is true it affects, but if it is true that the measures taken to correct are measures that always affect workers and workers, always middle class families, always give in the same place, always impoverish the middle class and the poorest ones and exponentially enrich 100% or 200%, the richest ones. So we understand that these policies, beyond the crisis, have an intent, an ideological intent. Sometimes, when we talk about ideology, we talk a lot about history, sociology. I think the real, the real ideology is in the economy. The economy is the one that will achieve a more equal society, with more rights, or the economy is the one that will achieve a more unequal society, with less rights, with precariousness, with a search for life, because not all of us can be equal. That's what economics, economic policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u227	...fore-neutrals who carried out the People's Party in Spain and carried out the People's Party in Galicia. Because beyond what President Feijóo has done every Wednesday in full he twists the figures and pins the numbers, the reality tells us – international organizations, EPA, everything tells us –: more unemployment, more precarious employment, more hours given to employers who are not charged, more underemployment in B, more youth emigration, worse quality of life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u228	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u229	...and less public services. And, Counsellor, it is dramatic: labour problems, economic problems and even above all in social services are cut so that these people with problems have no opportunity, because people with unemployment and long-term unemployment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u231	...you've reduced 100 percent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u232	End, end, Mrs. Quintas. It's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u233	...economically for the provision of such aid. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u234	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Replica. Answer the economic and employment advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quintas, ladies and gentlemen. I, in fact, expected from your intervention a little bit of rigour and that you had left behind all the generalities that are used to pose when you... come here to talk about active employment policies, but you're actually asking me about the strategies that are developing the Galician Employment Board, and logically also about economic and industrial matters, and I'm logically going to give you an answer, putting, first, that, far from you trying to move here that this government and this parliamentary group is not aware, it has no sensitivity, far from that situation, this government, of course, is fully aware of the situation we inherited from its government step, it is fully aware of the difficulty it is going through people who are actually looking for employment opportunities, and this government is totally sensitive to that situation, and that is why we are developing policies for people, to open up opportunities to people. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But look, Mr. Quintas, about planning, about identifying the different policies that can be promoted, two don't collaborate if you don't want to, and you know that much, and what you don't want – and you know – is the Socialist Party. And I have many examples. Even yesterday, the Socialist Group voted against the first Galician Social Economy Bill that has been brought to this House, regardless of the consequence that it may not have passed that law to those 300,000 Welsh people who already depend on this sector. But you are, permanently, every time we bring here planning initiatives, on industrial economic policies, you are permanently against. I remind you of your opposition to Galicia's Entrepreneurship and Economic Competitiveness Act, which, by the way, has been regarded by the World Bank as an innovative and pioneering standard, and which should be replicated in the rest of Spain, and I am forwarding the publication of the World Bank. You have also not supported the Strategy of Smart Specialization, and, as you know, you have welcomed the European Commission, and it is already producing concrete results. They also didn't support the strategy of internationalization of the Galician company, another of this government's bets, which simply translates into that we're facing the best export cycle of our history and we're making records year after year. And they're not supporting – you know why – the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, which you permanently want to question, while the strategic sectors of our industry are actively participating in intelligent factory development manufacturing projects, precisely to ensure, Your Honor, quality employment for their workers. Therefore, Mrs. Quintas, your willingness to collaborate with this government and Galicia I believe it is believed. It is believed and of course it is permanently not to support any kind of proposal. I logically regret that the only proposal you bring to this House is more expense. I remind you that this government is fulfilling the public deficit every year, and I remind you that this government is still paying those more than 2,000 million euros that you have left duty and now this government has to pay. Therefore, Your Honor, with all due respect, this government will support any initiative that responds to the general interest, that responds to the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, but where they will not find us it is in positions that endanger this economy, as they are doing now, simply saying not to everything. We know that one of you isn't, but you're not, and it's not all. And so it's hard to build, and so it's hard for you to do an opposition work. In any case, and clarifying this, I logically turn to answer your questions, and I tell you that this government, of course, is not yet satisfied with the advanced employment, of course not. There are not enough about 50,000 jobs created in Galicia since the beginning of 2014, it is not enough that two out of three employees in Galicia are undefined with a full-time employment contract and it is not enough that the number of Greek homes that continue to suffer from a lack of employment has been reduced to 20,400 people. Of course, it's not enough, and that's why we're developing all economic and industrial policies to reverse that situation, some policies that, as you know, have already had the opportunity to move it to this House, we're doing it with 20 percent more resources to engage in business promotion and employment promotion, and we will certainly continue to push it with that new employment agenda, according to the current growth scenario in the country. An agenda that I hope, in this case, will have its approach, and logically its support too, which will focus on creating more jobs, which will focus on promoting greater quality and stability in recruitment, and an agenda that – well ahead – will also include an equal employment plan. So it will be an agenda that will have concrete tools to facilitate greater inclusion of unemployed people, with recruitment aids, with formulas to stimulate quality and equality in employment, and measures that will also be added to the work of the labour inspection this year will focus on monitoring contracts. Thus, this agenda will pay special attention to groups with more difficulty in accessing employment, including long-term unemployed, and they know that we are allocating resources to improve precisely the employability of those unemployed who have family burdens and do not receive any kind of benefit, and that in the years 2015 and 2016 they will receive a total of 14 million euros in aid. In any case, Your Honor, you know that the attention to long-term unemployed, which is one of the main priorities, is not new in active employment policies, and in fact you want to transfer that your data is the officers and ours are the ones that we invented, but we refer ourselves to official data. [[Murmurs.]] I'll give you a data that you probably don't know, that precisely when we talk about long-term unemployed, almost two out of three unemployed people in Galicia in the last 12 months have been long-term unemployed; in particular, 64.13% of those unemployed who have come out of unemployment were long-term unemployed. So we will continue to work with the most disadvantaged groups, we will continue to work with the Thursdays to find these opportunities and also the Government will continue to make an effort at the level of care for the people who need it most. That's why today social emergency aid is almost 50% more than when we get to government and why we launch this plan to fight inequality with measures like Realoxa, or the care check, or also the electric ticket. Therefore – and I conclude – this government, Your Honor, will not fail to make an effort. It seems to us that the data already obtained is insufficient, we believe that this data is in the right direction, and of course, what we need to know is that this government will not fail to implement concrete measures to open up opportunities, so that the person who wants to work finds a suitable job and since all families have enough resources for a decent life. That's our commitment, of course, that's the work we're doing, a job, lordship, by the way, that we're doing with the support we've achieved so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u236	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u237	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, rigour gives that when workers come here who have a problem you receive them, the president doesn't receive them. The rigor gives us that when people come to protest here because they're fired, because they close them, because the EREs enter into the legality that you approved in a job reform but put them on the street without any rights, you don't receive them and approve rules for them to be thrown out from the House, not those who scream and get hurt, no, those who come to ask for their bread and their children's. Look, Counselor, you sure have a staff you pay to prepare the papers and see them, but look, mine are strict. You know why? Because, since I don't have a staff, I get them directly from what they publish and they're on the table. Look, a little while ago a Welsh newspaper, La Voz de Galicia, said, "Just see the dire state of the main productive sectors of our closest reality to understand that any waste of time is irrecoverable. Practically everything in the Welsh economy has ever been relevant has disappeared, has been sold or is suffering from the esters of agony, without the public authorities being able to stop the decline." This is Galician reality, Counselor. One real fact: over the last five years each Greek has increased from €2,600 to €3,762. That's the reality of families, after their job reform to adjust the deficit. The reality is that the unemployment rate for children under 25 years of age is 40.4%. And you know it, and it's true. In children under 20 years of age, 59.2%. 7 out of 10 young people are in work poverty. Women still have a labor gap in Galicia greater than in the state, because if all the differences, if Galicia does not converge with the state, logically not in that respect either. The reality is that Galicia, the Autonomous Community has lost 37,000 inhabitants, and the reality is that the President of the Government of Galicia has asked the Social Services Councillor to explain to us that you are cool to have children. And, well, rigor, rigor, let's see. Well, that's the reality. There are provinces like Ourense, where there are more pensioners than taxpayers, and the trend will continue to get worse, Counselor. It's not good for you to go in the morning a counselor, in the afternoon another advisor – I understand that it's the only city in Galicia where you rule and that you must support your partner – but it's not worth going there; we lose people, we don't have any opportunities. In the interior province, the pyramid is totally reversed. I don't know if this has any rigour, but I say so from now on. Yes, Counselor. Look, how much did you invest or government in Q+D+i? 0.86%. As Mr. Losada would say – I don't know where he is, he is there – like Ukraine and Turkey. But then you say that the goal is to reach 3% of GDP by 2020. Is this rigor or is it taking the hair of the citizenry? Say that at this point in the city, these details don't matter. Do you know how much you care? To know if you have a fixed contract, to know if you have a contract that is not done but that you can renew it next year, to know how much it costs at the end of the month, to know if you can take one, two or three children – who may have average – to schools, if you can pay them at the university. That's what matters to people right now. Because you brought us here, they led us to the point that we only care to eat. All right? And that's intentional, with neoliberal policies. Look, the Galego Institute of Statistics says that in 2012 928,200 people were working full-time, and 128,800, in part-time. I say 2012, with his job reform. Do you know what's going on? That there are 37,300 less people on a full day. EPA's data tells us that in the Galician community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u238	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u239	...there are 70,000 workers on account of which annual salary is less than 5,000 euros; their monthly salary is equivalent to 351 euros gross. How about the salary? That he doesn't have rigour? Me too. Twenty percent of the total workers in Greece suffer from work poverty, and that's what the International Monetary Fund says, the OECD and say... go ahead and tell them they don't have rigour. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u240	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u241	But in the meantime, you have 50% of the budget of your unexecuted counseling – which I don't explain, but good –.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u242	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u243	Counsellor, Counselor, it's official data. And I don't have a staff who twists my figures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u245	...to which I should put the number, where I should be as good as a percentage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u246	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u247	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u249	...the reality of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u250	Your time is up, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u251	...you know her like me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u252	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u253	...and it's regrettable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u254	Mrs. Quintas, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u255	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u256	Man, please, look at the time. Please, time's up. Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quintas, when we talk about economic and industrial policy, if we talk about innovation policy, I understand the frustration of the Socialist Party. I understand the frustration because, in fact, when you were in the Government, both here in Galicia and in Madrid, you wanted to promote projects and you couldn't. I understand your frustration when today the president announces that tomorrow he will actually realize the extent of the creation of that technological and industrial park of unmanned aircraft in Galicia which, in fact, you have not been able to develop. And that, in fact, we're also betting on R & D+i in emerging sectors. Just like we're betting on other sectors, such as the automotive sector, where, among other things, thanks to the collaboration of this government, along with the involvement of the industry and the industry of the components and the workers themselves, we've got the adjudication of that new van. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I think I would be delighted that the Socialist Party had come into the debate, which does not want to enter the debate because it does not interest you, in the strategy of economic and industrial policy. But, of course, when we talk about employment, Your Honor, of course we have clear what the guiding principles of our employment policy are: working for more indefinite recruitment, more full-time recruitment, better wages and working conditions and, of course, greater equality between men and women. These are the principles of action, and, of course, the data are there in order to effectively counteract it. In 2015, the honourable Member took place the largest increase in full-day contracts with respect to part-time contracts. In fact, there are 40,000 people more busy with this kind of trip than at the end of 2014. And today we can say, Your Honor – that is the data – that eight out of ten people in Galicia have a full-time job. And if this was improved in the contracts of the full-day, it was also in the indefinite contracts. Employees with indefinite contracts represent 74,5% of the total in Galicia. And this situation is better – although they don't want to recognize it – than the one before the crisis, since by the end of 2007, they had this type of contract of 70.7% of the employees. In fact, Mrs. Quintas – and I continue with the data – 85% of the busy Greek people have been in their current business for a year or more, and the employees with a contract of less than a day are falling in the last year by more than 30%. [[Murmurs.]] So we're talking about statistics that confirm an improvement in almost all indicators that measure employment; insufficient, as I've already said, but one improvement. What is surprising is that you, who have put Spain in a situation of absolute crisis and absolute unemployment, come here trying to teach employment policy lessons. But if you want to speak seriously and if you want to talk rigorously about wages too, I can tell you that wages and wages in Galicia are – it is true – beneath Spain's average from before the crisis. But that differential, Your Honor, is getting short, that's the reality. The average annual wage in 2014 exceeds the average wage of 2008 by EUR 1,100, an increase of 5,9 % compared to the increase of 4,5 % in the State. Therefore, Your Honor, Galicia is one of the five communities that achieve higher wage growth than the state as a whole, which is an evolution to which it is possible to add the wage increase agreed in Galicia to November 2015, which was 1.07% in average terms. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I think, Your Honor, that the data is there to contrast them. You're telling me about the poverty risk rate. You should know, in official data, that in 2014, which was the last year published, the poverty risk rate in Galicia was 15.4%, and it is a rate that is well below the poverty risk rate of the state as a whole, which is 22.2%. And indeed, Your Honor, I repeat again in this House that Galicia is the fourth autonomous community that has the best results. In fact, the only communities that improve this result of Galicia are the Basque Country, Navarre and Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u258	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u259	So, Your Honor, I think it remains to be seen that we are actually working in the right direction, the data are accompanying us, and we will, of course, continue to reinforce every opportunity for all the Greeks who want to find a job to find it, thanks to an active policy not only of employment, but also an active policy by attracting investments here in Galicia, both from an industrial point of view and from the point of view of R & D+i. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u260	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u261	Before moving to the ninth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions to the Government, it was requested by the Government to approve the question that appears in the last place and which has already been communicated to the interested party. We therefore proceed to develop the ninth point, which is that of questions to the Government. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Gallega de Left, about the current position of the Government of Galicia regarding the stay of Cence in the river Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u262	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor or Counselor – I don't know who's going to answer – I'd like to start asking you a question, see if you can answer it; it's the fourth time I try and never get an answer. Specifically, I wanted to know what were the reasons why the Galician People's Party was betting on election programs in 2009 and 2012 for the transfer of Ence from the Pontevedra River. I do not ask the change of position that we have all seen in recent times, I ask what were the reasons expressed in the electoral programs to ask for the transfer of Ence. And I'd like him to say it publicly. I would also like you to explain to us what was the position of the Galician and People's Party in relation to the adoption in 2013 of the Coastal Protection Act, which opened the possibility of the stay of Ence in the hive of seventy-five more years and left the last word about this so important decision for this country in the state. It was part of our sovereignty to decide on a matter such as the permanence of Ence, which conditions the economy of the Pontevedra River and the country's forest model, left it in the hands of the state. I would like to know what the opinion of the Galician and Galician People's Party was when a regulation implementing the Coastal Protection Act was passed, where Galician sovereignty was again limited by limiting the environmental report to that already contained in the integrated environmental authorisation. Counsellor, you, who are so offended because in Pontevedra you have declared yourself ungrateful to Rajoy, I ask myself: how won't you be a person not grateful to Mr. Rajoy? How will it not be a person who betrayed his city and his country, without consulting citizenship, making a decision that only benefits the company? The hundred per cent of the groups in this Parliament, Counsellor, the 100 per cent of the Members and Members of this Parliament have come here to defend the transfer of Ence. And Galicia sees that Ence will remain in the hive for another sixty years by a decision that is beyond the people's popular sovereignty and determined by the private interests of a group of people who are going to earn the cost of this country's well-being. That's when I ask you to remind me why all the groups in this Parliament were betting on the transfer from Ence and starting a step under other economic, social and environmental bases, Counsellor. He also did it must be a non-gracious person, because he played an even more embarrassing role in this story, giving up all the decision-making capacity in the Government of Madrid, he was not able to act as a president of the Government of a country. Counsellor, please answer the specific questions I have moved you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u263	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u264	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, it is the fourth time – as you say – that you ask me this question, or that you ask the Government this question. The president answered, I answered twice, and the secretary general; and you may ask as many times as you fail, that the answer will always be the same. What I can tell you is that what this government does not do is trade with the land, what this government does not do is trade with the earthly public domain. And you should know very well, since you are a Member and representative of the Greeks, that the public domain of the land, the land domain, is the sole competence of the State. This is not a question of the sovereignty of the Greeks, it is the sovereignty of all Spaniards and all Spaniards, and therefore this is what belongs to the State. If you want to talk about law and debate the law, you will be represented in the State Congress and you will have the opportunity to talk about it. Of course, the Government of Galician Union does not do what it does – because I think there is no greater betrayal than exiting the system – is to get out of the system, i.e. to break the laws. And the laws buy the rajatbla, does exactly what the laws demand for the strict defense of the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And that's what this Government of Galicia has done in connection with this authorization. It is a process – as you well know – in which the Galician board, through this council, participates, the response of a request from the Ministry, to give sole and exclusive account of the compliance and the requirements of this company's environmental authorization, and that's what this board did. We always said, Mr. Sánchez – and we say it again, and that's why I tell you that they're already going four times and bring me back here the times it fails – that the placement of Ence we don't like; that the placement of Ence would not be the placement that, of course, if we had the chance, we would choose. But we knew that we had only two opportunities, and they were either: either I was continuing on Ence or everybody was going to the street. And I have listened to you – not on one occasion, but even this very morning – to defend jobs. Today in this Parliament they said that the Government of Galicia did not defend five jobs. Today we were here on a question to the president because five people stayed on the street for now in Pellejero Transport. What do you mean now? What would you rather eight hundred people work in the district of Pontevedra directly to the street? You're defending him now? [[Murmurs.]] What we have of course is that the Galician Union defends and is for employment, the circumstances are what we have now. That placement – I insist – we have not chosen you or this government of Galician Union. And in the meantime, this government will comply with all laws and, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u266	...we will respond to what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u267	Thank you very much. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u268	Counsellor, you say you didn't buy. Home!, if you do something good, the People's Party is to buy. I think you resigned from the Conseilerie de Trabajo because you were selling high-ranking jobs with training courses for the unemployed or for the employees. That's right, with a little detail: that you resigned but returned it to another council. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you don't answer the questions you're asked precisely because it's a shame to answer these questions, Counselor. What did you do when a law was passed that changed the decision-making power of the German Government to the State Government? Before the adoption in 2013 of the law by the majority of the People's Party in Spain, where I suppose you are painting something, Galicia had the last word in the stay of Ence. And you allowed the state to have the last word in that law, even though the Galician Union had made an unfavorable environmental report. Despite that, you have agreed that the regulation is tied to the future of Ence, where, by chance, only by chance – because we already know that cases of corruption in the People's Party are isolated cases and the deletion of hard disks are isolated cases – are Mrs. Isabel Tocino, Mr. Carlos del Álamo, etc., etc. And you allowed that. There are two possibilities: whether you're an accomplice to this betrayal or whether you're a monk who doesn't paint anything. Tell me which of the two are you, Counselor. Why did they allow these changes and what they said about these changes? We have opposed these changes, we have politically manifested it, what did Mr Feijóo do when these changes were made that affected the decision-making power of the German Government over his country? It's a shame, and then they're surprised to be declared ungrateful. It's the minimum democratic gesture that citizenship can do to put you in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u269	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u270	Thank you very much, President. Well, neither monk nor accomplice, Mr. Sánchez. I'd like to hear you beyond all your demands, where would you put these 800 people from Pontevedra and its territory? Where would you put the 5,000 people who are now dependent on this factory? Tell me where? You in your work, how, indeed, honourable Member, where?, where would you put and what jobs would you give them and where would you replace those 5,000 people? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You obviously don't have it, so you don't have a chance to talk about the different options these people can have. From the Government of Galicia, what we want is to keep moving forward and, of course, keep moving forward for the job. Look, Mr. Sánchez, if we didn't have the chance to comply with the regulations, there was an opportunity also in 2008 and, indeed, the Government of the Left, the Progressive Government, the Government of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block, could also not have approved an authorization, could you, too. You might not have approved an authorization, which you obviously haven't. Why? Because the only implication that the Government of the Union has is whether or not it meets. I can assure you that the Government of the Union, through this council, will always be vigilant that this company complies with all the regulations, the regulations that it is incumbent upon me, which is directly not employment now, which is environmental legislation, and I can assure you that it is now strictly compliant not only with the regulations, the European guidelines and the regulations that mark it the Government of the State and the Council of Galicia in environmental matters, but also goes on top. But the most important thing to me is to know first-hand what you're going to do from now on. And today I held a meeting with the highest representatives of Ence. Today I held a meeting to meet them, to ask them and urge them to immediately start all the investments, these 61 million euros that are linked to the company, which are bound directly to the environmental conditions, and to start them, without delay, which do not happen in the summer, which start all the investments right now. Those investments that are compromised. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Obviously, I asked him for more, and I asked him for more for Pontevedra, and I asked him to do more for Galicia too, and I asked him to collaborate with the debugger of Praceres, Mr. Sánchez. I asked you to collaborate with an investment which is also environmental, and which has a direct impact on citizenship, in particular on society and seafarers. That's what the Government of Galicia has to do, to be demanding, to enforce the regulations, and, of course, to ask the Ence to meet with Pontevedra, to meet Galicia, and whatever it is, if it fits, more demanding in environmental matters, and that's what we did, to demand now investments in environmental matters, this very morning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u271	Thank you very much, Counselor. Da María Terêcesa Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management provided by the German Government to achieve the replacement at their jobs of the people affected by the employment regulation file in the companies of the Tragsa Group in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u272	Have the word to Mrs. Paz
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u273	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to greet the representatives of the workers and the workers of Tragsa and Tragsatec who accompany us in the rostrum of the Hemicycle. Yesterday in this Parliament an institutional statement was unanimously adopted through which this Parliament calls for the re-integration of the workers and workers of the company affected by the ERE of Tragsa, of the Tragsa group of companies in our community, and adds that the German Parliament shows its support to Tragsa and Tragsatec workers in Galicia, and urges Junta to address the Government of Spain and the company's leadership to request the readmission of the 75 workers and workers fired in Galicia, and urges the company to enter, as soon as possible, the necessary negotiations with the representatives of the workers and to continue. We welcome the approval of this institutional statement in the Galician Parliament, I suppose that workers and workers also take it as a backing from their representatives, unanimously, to their demands that have been manifesting in various mobilisations in recent months, but since the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we want to make some considerations and also specific requests in this regard to the Government of Galician Union. Usually, when these types of statements are approved, the government's management, in order to comply with them, is limited, so we have noted on previous occasions, to a simple written submission of a mission, a letter, to those responsible to whom it is directed for their record and knowledge of this statement. We, Counselor, believe that in this case it is absolutely insufficient for the execution of the Government of Galician Union if it simply remains in sending a letter. We believe that it is insufficient, firstly, by the right of the workers who have been shown – and the company itself with the paralysis of the ERE thus finds – that the ERE was unnecessary, unfair and abusive. Secondly, because these redundancies directly affect the public services of the Galician Union, and even the lack of these workers, which, as you all know in Galicia, has practically executed 75% of the planned ERE, and in the case of Ourense nearly 90%, affects essential workers for the maintenance of the Galician Union's own services entrusted to this company. And because it also affects a situation as sensitive as emergencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u274	Finish the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u275	...is there a misfortune in our country to whom you intend to go to Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u276	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u277	That is why – I conclude, Mr President – I ask, what are the concrete actions to be taken by the Government of the Union in order to comply with this institutional statement in order to ensure that the 77 workers and workers fired in Galicia are actually readmitted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u278	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, I have already commented in this House that this Government, indeed, is next to all the workers and workers of the Tragsa Group, and so from the very first moment we've been working and held meetings, specific meetings, we haven't sent letters, but we've had meetings with both the management of the company in Galicia, as well as in Madrid and also with the union representation itself. And, of course, we do so with that clear goal of achieving alternatives to the dismissals that were carried out in Galicia. Of course, that is the unequivocal will of the Government of the Union, we do it always, whenever there is a labour conflict and whenever there is a conflict that puts jobs at risk in our community, this government reacts immediately, and more logically it is up to, in this case, because it is a public enterprise to which this administration – we are fully aware – gives important contracts. That is why we have already urged the President of Sepi and the President of Tragsa to review this situation of the workers affected in Galicia in their search for their readmission and other solutions that can give a concrete answer to the dismissed workers. And we will do it again, we will do it again in the coming days, indeed, by fulfilling Parliament's mandate, where yesterday, indeed, an initiative was approved by consensus of all Members and Members. By the way, he forgot to say that it was an initiative of the People's Party Parliamentary Group, but I remind him if he hadn't understood who had made that initiative. In any case, I have no doubt that we will use this support which Parliament is giving us to try to try, indeed, to resume negotiations with the workers and to achieve a concrete solution from the consensus. I say this, Your Honor, because you know – just like me – that the ERE applied by Tragsa is adjusted by law, right according to the Supreme Court's 2015 ruling, so this government cannot force a company to move back in that decision. We only have the way of dialogue, but I can assure you that, of course, we will continue with all intensity to find a solution; of course, avoiding these measures putting at risk other jobs that continue to depend on the contracts of the Galician Union, through Tragsa and Tragasatec, which are lent at this time in Galicia. So this government will continue to be involved with Tragsa's workers, defending their position, and you're just what they should explain to this House and to the Greeks is why they simply defend some jobs and not others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u281	Thank you, Mr. President. Very telegraphically, because I don't have much time. First, the Supreme Court's judgment, in any case, does not force the ERE to be executed, simply says it's adjusted by law. Second, the economic and organizational situation of the company since 2013, which was when the ERE was raised, changed substantially, and you know it. And thirdly, I'm going to make a request to you, and you're going to tell me in your answer if this Government is willing to comply with this request to check in practice, and really, what we agreed here yesterday in this Parliament. The company Tragsa has a production in Galicia of nearly 40 million euros, a production that becomes in its integrity of management orders to it by the Board of Galicia, which affect the public services and public performances of the Board of Galicia. I'm telling you, you do a dosier of all the management orders that have the different advisories with the Tragsa company and you go with that dosier negotiating with Tragsa executives to press. It's not just worth saying, with nice words, that workers have to be readmitted, go with the weight and authority that gives them that you hire each year for more than 40 million euros to that company, which is, by the way, public; that if you forget to say it, because when you say that you cannot influence the decisions of a company, you have to make it clear that this company is public. And so they take all those management orders and they're going to negotiate with it, one by one, and even telling them that even if they don't meet certain deadlines, depending on which orders were given, for example, to justify EADER funds, and Galicia's Board is left unrecoverable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u282	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u283	...these EAFRD funds, you'll have to claim, make a claim on property.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u284	It's over, it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u285	So what I'm saying is, are you willing to use all the instruments and all the pressure that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u287	...are they in your hand to defend these jobs? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u288	Your time is up. Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think, of course, the workers have no doubt that this Government is working from the very first moment to defend its interests. I'm sorry you're coming here to try to question that, indeed, that's so. I said it was a public company, of course I said it, what happens is that you already have the answer prepared and read what you have prepared. But I said it's a public company and we're actually going to defend the interests of the workers, but we're also doing it with responsibility. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] With responsibility, because we are fully aware that the path of dialogue is the one that can give a concrete answer to this situation, and we will do so with all the intensity, I have already said. But also, logically, given that there are other jobs that logically depend on the Galician Union contracts, and, of course, we will also work with that responsibility to give concrete solutions, but that they have no other kind of externalities, because they don't have to have them, on the other hand. We do not logically share Tragsa's decision to apply the ERE without reaching an agreement with the workers – I said it in this House, and I repeat – we do not share Tragsa's decision, and that is why we are working, I say, with all intensity. We will meet every time it takes so that we can effectively reverse that situation, but logically I say that in that context we are going to try to give a concrete answer to the workers. We, of course, Your Honor, are absolutely sensitive to the situation of Tragsa and Tragsatec workers, we are fully sensitive to the situation that caused the decision of the ERE of Tragsa, and that is why I tell you that we will continue to work on solving, logically, all the differences that may arise with the company, that these situations can be solved, and we will do so, I say, with Tragsa workers, just as we do with the rest of the workers who go through some kind of difficulty. I – I insist – regret that the Galician Nationalist Block seems to be with certain workers, with others not, and should explain why with each other not, and therefore give some coherence to the situation of workers' defence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We always defend all the workers who have difficulties in Galicia, but you see that they just defend each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u290	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures planned by the Galician Council to paralyze megaminery projects in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u291	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, if you don't want broth, take another cup. So you must reason, because these days we were aware of the Constitutional Court's judgement that definitely closes the door to Corcoesto mine, a triumph of the Greek society that has mobilized to curb this megamining project, but at the same time its advisor submits public information to the application for a permit for investigation by mining Isabela II, which affects much of the municipality of Zas and also the municipalities of Vimianzo, Santa Comba, Coristanco and Mazaricos, and which has already mobilized the neighbours of the affected areas, which have presented hundreds of allegations. A representation is in the guest gallery and therefore I greet them as well. This project, if it thrives, will affect an extension equivalent to more than 4,000 football fields, incompatible with the current and potential uses of soils, the development of agriculture, livestock, forestry, the preservation of heritage and landscape wealth, and the conservation of water resources. A project that would involve the realization of an immense mine in the open sky, in which the use of cyanide would be inevitable. A project, ultimately, and therefore incompatible with the protection of the environment and with the protection of our health. Counselor, look, Galicia is not a mine. Do you think the progress of our country will come out of the hands of a squilming model of our resources, of our territory, of our natural wealth? That's the model of the future that you have for Galicia? A model of bread for today and hungry for tomorrow? A model that destroys more jobs than he creates? Where do emigrant benefits and costs get internalized? Look, gold mining has a clearly speculative component, its viability depends on the contribution of metal to international capital markets. That's why only those farms that use the most aggressive methods of the environment to reduce costs. And when the world gold market accumulates an excess of supply, the prices of gold will fall, the company will leave and in the area will only be contaminated water and a lunar landscape. That's why I insist, is that the model of the future that you want for our country? Do you think Galicia is a mine? So, Counselor, topics aside, because we're very accustomed to your topical answers, will the Galician Board take some measures to permanently paralyze megaminery projects in our country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u292	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u293	Mr. Jorquera, with all courtesy, I think we have to define concepts, because if we are not going to have a serious debate. You say the Constitutional Court issued a judgment. No, you know that's not so. You know perfectly well that this Government, in 2013, refused to process the Corcoesto project, this Government with objective criteria set out in its own regulations. And you know perfectly well that this Government has approved in the Law of Measures an amendment, in the Law of Measures adopted by this Government, which has been brought to the Constitutional Court by the State. And you know that what the Constitutional Court did was not to issue a judgment, but to validate the rules that we, this government, have adopted in the Law of Measures. So if anyone's working for mining, if someone's working for Galician interests, it's this government. And the only thing the Constitutional Court did is validate that processing, that regulatory change that allowed not only to cancel Corcoesto's mine rights, but also to cancel those rights in Galician mining register. That was a concrete action of this Government. So that's an aspect that I think is important. Secondly, you're telling me about megaminery. Curious, curious! You know, perfectly, that megaminery does not exist, nor does it exist from a legal point of view, nor does it exist from a technical point of view. And if so, because I see you react like, like it doesn't exist, man, because it would be good if you would probably include that regulation and that conception of megamining in the Galician Mining Act, which is the one that is vigilant, which was the one you approved in 2008. The curious thing is why in 2008 they didn't regulate what it was and what it wasn't about megamining. Funny they've now found out exactly that there's megamining. So I think we have to put forward a debate with a certain rigour if we really want people to understand all the procedures. And if we're strict, Your Honor, that's why we have to explain that it's a search permit, because now it turns out that you want it to be simply not known what wealth we have in Galicia. You know that a research permit simply establishes is the possibility that you can actually identify what is the wealth we have in our country, and that doesn't mean, in any case, that this project will be approved for its exploitation. So, Your Honor, I think you have to define the concepts well, you in the Bipartite have approved 106 research permits, 106. I don't blame you, but on the contrary, I think it's okay, but now it turns out that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u294	Finish the answer, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u295	...they don't want to investigate anymore. I don't understand, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u297	Counsellor, I don't know how this headline reads: "The Board has done away with nearly 7,500 fixed jobs for the last four years." Why do I mention this headline? Because whenever we ask about these questions, you answer with the tip that the BNG defends some jobs, yes and no. Look, Junta has done no more than 7,500 jobs. If you ask for rigour, you have the rigor to admit that the BNG proposed to exclude the megaminery of Galicia's sectoral mining plan, and you have opposed it. Look, Counselor, if you want rigour, you know that Galicia already has gold. Gold is our wind, Counselor, and an illegal decision, as the Supreme has just recognized, has caused the ruin of our wind sector. Look, what we don't want is for Galicia to be treated like a colony, either by Ence or by megamining companies. Counsellor, I know that the Constitutional Court has done what it did was to give the Council of Galicia the reason when it established that the rights of miners – as well as textually – may be denied the failure to meet the subjective requirements and the insufficient accreditation of the applicant's economic or technical solvency. I know that, Counselor, but it turns out that this applies to promoters of this project. Look, it turns out that none of the companies in the group are going to have enough capital, trajectory or number of workers to be able to carry out a project of this size. You know what's gonna happen? Even as with Corcoesto. First a small company makes surveys and then assumes the project a multinational. But he also knows that the Prosecutor asked the company administrator for six years of imprisonment for a crime against the environment. Do you know that your company, this manager's company, took out area without permission from a specially protected area? And he has not yet executed repair of the affected land. This consists of technical solvency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u298	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u299	...of the applicant, it consists of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u300	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u301	...it's about the environment. That's why stop being a nuisance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u302	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u303	...and paralyze this project, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u304	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u305	It's funny that the Galego Nationalist Block always prejudges and even thinks that we don't apply the law. I am surprised, and in this case I am more surprised because the only thing this Government does, Mr. Jorquera, is to pass the law that approved the Bipartite. And that's his law, it's not the law of this government, it's his law. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, you and your group show that they actually want to transfer all kinds of veto to mining in Galicia. I regret that this is the opposition of the Galego Nationalist Block, I think it simply responds to this approach that you have to go against everything; you go against everything, they go against the energy industry, they go against the paper industry, against the cement industry... I understand that you in Galicia have a lot of people left, we logically have nothing left. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Your Honor, I think it's hard to understand what your approach is, because you know what a research permit is being processed, which has not been granted that research permit. You guys want me to paralyze a processing that's under public exposure. I think you just don't know what the legal procedures are and that we actually have an obligation to comply with the law and, therefore, to do that process, just as we have the responsibility that when you want to pose any type of exploitation project, if you don't meet the technical criteria, the financial criteria and the economic criteria, tell that project you don't. And that, taxively, is what we told Corcoesto at the time. And that's what we're going to tell any project that can be presented in Galicia that does not meet environmental criteria, technical criteria and economic and financial criteria. And, of course, what you have to share with me is that the granting of a research permit, which is what we are dealing with here, does not mean by itself that an operating authorisation is not reached in any case, nor – much less – where and how possible exploitation works are carried out, because those, precisely, gentlemen, are the variables that are the object of the research plan. I think they just don't know the law or what they want is to deceive and confuse people, and people are much smarter. I invite you to know a little more about Galician mining, they work 7,000 people in the mining industry in Galicia, it's 1% of the gross domestic product, and I think that the Galician Nationalist Block should go through the districts of Valdeorras, through the districts of Porriño and get to know some more about Galician mining. I'm sorry they don't know her, but I'm sorry, especially, that they don't know the law, their law, that we're applying, and all about compliance with the regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u306	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Hippolito Farínas Sobrino and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the evolution of the programme contracts since its implementation with regard to the number of sheltered centres, of beneficiaries and of actions in each school course
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination, since the arrival in the Government in 2009 of Executive Feijóo was the main concern for the advice given by you today to deal with some unemployable – some may be entrepreneurial – school drop-out rates. In any case, the unjust school failure that could be applied to, and I'm going to apply, words that were peculiar to the opposition by referring to the cuts. Indeed, many young people in Galicia have been subjected to cuts in their employment opportunities, cuts in the system's equity and cuts in the fundamental principle enshrined in our Constitution of equal opportunities. At the same time, we could qualify those responsible for that system of infidels to Galicia and unfaithful to the Greeks, because there is no better way or worse way to be unfaithful to an imperative mandate of the people than to send to the street, without any academic or professional qualification, and what is worse, without any possibility of obtaining it, to more than one hundred thousand of our young people. That was the product and thanks to measures put in place by this government and the government of the previous legislation, measures such as the program contracts, which were able to curb this indentation that was being given in our territory. Initiatives that are well designed to access centres to strategies, strategies to improve the quality of the education system itself. We're talking about a program contract in which programs designed to defend each centre of its autonomy, through a contract signed between that centre and the council, a custom-made contract, a contract that has its marked temporality, that has its objectives, that has its follow-up plan, that has its evaluation and, most importantly, that has 100% funding from the Galician Union and not 50% from some PROA that still rescues some, without realizing that it's one of the first measures to cover the program contracts. Counsellor, some program contracts that do their role excellently, that meet exactly the needs of the education system, that contemplate the PROA and that also contemplate – and I read them not to be wrong – the only possibility that it will be fulfilled with all the competences, no longer basic, but right now keys for the centers to play their autonomy as well and for us all to be better than we were. That's why I ask you the question that comes today on the agenda. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u308	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. The Councillor for Culture, Education and College Order has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u309	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Farigna, as I did in the previous interpellation made by the Socialist Party, I also thank you for this question, because you are talking about an important initiative in the education system, you are talking about the program contracts, which is a undoubtedly new initiative and is an initiative that is clearly oriented towards improving the quality of the education system, but above all improving the equity of the education process in Galicia. So in the search for an improvement in quality in teaching to reduce the percentage of students with low performance, the educational centres voluntarily do a check, they do self-assessment, and they are able to analyze and identify their eves and strengths, and once this situation is analysed, what they do is to propose to the Council, in this case, the signing of a contract, a program contract, in which a series of action lines are set to improve everything that has to do with the educational process. We are speaking in this case of responsibility, we are talking about the autonomy of the centers, we are talking about evaluation and self-assessment, we are talking about promoting and empowering the culture of effort; ultimately, we are talking about improving the education system both in quality and in equity variables. And over the past five years, Mr President, I can tell you that there has been a very positive development in these programme contracts. We currently have about 82,000 pupils within the Galician educational system who are benefiting from the programme contracts; almost one third of the Greek public centres have signed programme contracts, 378 centres have programme contracts. You have already set out here the lines of action that have these program contracts: reinforcement, key competences, coexistence, etc., but perhaps the most important of this initiative is, on the one hand, their voluntary character, and on the other hand, which means strengthening the culture of effort, or strengthening the evaluation, and creating around a contract, a program, an educational community that is oriented, on a voluntary basis, in this case, to strengthen the educational process, quality and, above all, to strengthen the fairness of students in the public system. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u310	Thank you, Counselor. Replica shift. Mr. Farinas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u311	Thank you very much, Counselor for your answer. It is clear that the success of these programs is due to the innovative initiative developed by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, and we are very pleased to see that perfect communion between the policies developed by the Council and the application they have in the centres of Galicia, where they develop a fundamental role, without which all this could not be accomplished, our teachers. It has to be said that program contracts also provide a fundamental stimulus for teachers to be the real protagonist of this improvement through the application of specific measures for the needs that centres have to design to fulfill a fundamental role, which is that all students develop their capabilities within their specific characteristics and within their possibilities. To put in the same bag – if I allow the license – the families, the entire society that participates, the entire educational community, the teachers and return the student to the center of the education system, allows the old African proverb to be applied that to educate a tribe only one man is needed, but to educate a child of that tribe requires the whole tribe, and it is little if that tribe is not qualified. We see that we have made remarkable progress towards that excellence that seeks all the measures that are specifically designed to improve the quality of the education system, towards incorporating generations – especially those we have the responsibility to form – into equal opportunities. That's why we encourage him and we commend him for this and other measures that are being applied today in our education system, which, without going back, is moving towards excellence and quality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u312	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u313	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, the programme contracts have certainly, despite having received a lot of criticism, very good acceptance by the education community in Galicia, by the master, by the teachers in Galicia. They had political criticisms from the opposition, but no doubt eventually time gives us reason. And I'm in these days, who have the honour to run this board, I've been able to visit many centers, where they are implementing program contracts, and we were able to first-hand to know the different realities that bear these program contracts. We saw groups of teachers working on projects with groups with special educational needs, we saw groups of teachers working to reduce school failure rates with those students who had difficulties of learning, we saw program contracts aimed at promoting coexistence in centres where there are problems of internal coexistence within the centers; we saw ultimately a coordinated, involved and very positive action by the teacher to be able to move forward in what we are talking about, in the quality and equity of the education system. And obviously there's a lot to go on, there's a lot of work to do, but it's also true that in the time of validity of these program contracts there's been a lot of progress. And with modesty, I wanted to say that in these five years, the program contracts have had a very positive impact on one of the most important variables in the education system, such as school failure; one of the educational variables that has a more social character, which implies in those students who leave the education system without any form of support and without any type of titration that allows them to have in their life less difficult vital itineraries, like those students who leave without any type of titration. Thanks to program contracts, among other things, school failure has dropped almost nine points, which is no smaller issue, since 2009. We're on an average in 2015 at 17%, and we're, in the last quarter, at 15.7%, which is still a high percentage and still has to continue guiding us and forcing us to work on this line. But, no doubt, far from any kind of triumphalism, program contracts are a fantastic educational strategy they suppose. I would also like to thank publicly in this House for the work and effort, motivation and the desires of the teacher as a whole for the voluntary implementation of these program contracts in the centres, because, as a result and as a result of these program contracts, today Galicia can say that in the last few years, with much less budgets, it has had a drop of almost 9% in school failure. And we can also say that we are essentially applying a social policy in education, where a variable, such as school failure, is very important to measure the quality and equity of the education system, if it's decreasing. Fortunately, this is thanks to the work of the professor and to this kind of measure driven by the Council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u314	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the board of Galicia with regard to the generalized manifestations of the professionals of the private hospital of Vigo, in relation to the deficiencies of the center
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u315	To put the question, Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u316	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, in order to save you the first two paragraphs of your speech, this question does not go against the professionals of Vigo's public health or Vigo's public health, it is a question to know the assessment that, in fact, the German Government – you, in your representation – makes of the situation of specialized hospital care in Vigo's health. An unheard of fact in the recent history of this autonomous community: 290 optional members of the Vigo Hospital Complex, 40% of the staff—which, taking into account the level of possible contracts and, therefore, labour insecurity, is a very relevant percentage—published an open letter in which they essentially asked for five things, which you are sure to know: the reversal of deficiencies, the participation of professionals in the adaptation process, the resignation of the manager, the rescue of the concession and the recovery of the initial project. The Council's response was to say that a clear demonstration of political fineness. They said that this letter was outdated and said that the professionals at Vigo hospital had no accurate and effective information about the care situation of their hospital. I'm going to dedicate the minute and forty seconds that I'm left to read Vigo press headlines this same month of February all of them. The first one is: "The emergencies of the Cunqueriro are filled with 250 patients at a time. Many sick people are waiting for results in shirts in boxing area corridors" – February 3rd –. February 4th, another medium of communication: "The Cunqueriro has already doubled 19 rooms in the face of increased income via emergency; there have been 30 pending hospitalizations". February 6th: "The Rain closes the first trimester of the new hospital surgery with a 99-day delay." February 15th: "The transfer to the Canker fires the wait for a digestive test until the middle of the seven months. The pending endoscopy is multiplied by 100". February 15 – the day of the letter’s publication –: “40 percent of Chuvi’s doctors ask for the Cuncher and the manager’s termination.” February 16, Tuesday: "The College of Physicians supports criticism of the Cunker and the collective supports the letter of the 290 optionals against the deficiencies of the new hospital and requires the rescue of the concession." February 17th: "Courts in electricity make it necessary to suspend tests, leave the Álvaro Cunqueiro to slow down and make it difficult for TACs to be carried out as well as for the operation of the surgeries". February 18th: "Internal medicine is urgently needed to strengthen staff in order to tackle an inexorable workload." February 19th: "Thirty operations cancelled in the Cunqueriro because of lack of beds." And on Saturday, February 20, "Doctors criticize that the real waiting list of the Chuvi doubles the official, and it's already 15,000 patients." Counsellor, do you consider the letter of the optionals to be outdated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u317	Thank you, Mr. Losada. The Health Counsellor has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u318	Madam President, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm sorry I can't give you a face, I have to talk like that, and it's an awkward position. Thank you very much for saying that you save me the first paragraphs of what I was going to say. The truth is, I thought I had filtrations in my department, that if I knew what I was going to read, but, look, you didn't get it right, because the first paragraphs I was going to say is that I think the title of the question is not very right, I think you could do it a little better. I know you're a respectful person, but, curiously – and I read – he says: "on the evaluation of the Galician board of events carried out by the professionals at Vigo's private hospital in relation to the deficiencies of the centre." Well, obviously, we could talk about Povervisa, Fatima or some other private center in Vigo, but it doesn't seem to be the case. He didn't appoint the hospital, but it must be the Cunqueriro Álvaro, and I have to tell him it's clearly public; public, public, public. Look, I'm going to tell you a little bit about history, not a lot, but something I want to remind you because I think you need to know, in the Vigo area, how it was in recent years, and tell you that, obviously, there are important hospitals headed by important people, such as Nicolás Peña, Vigo's great doctor, or Tronchoso's doctor, but we're going to talk only since 2004, when we decide to create the University Hospital Complex of Vigo, Chuvi, which was formed at that time by the General Hospital and Cí, who, as you know, the General was a hospital of the 1950s, very fragmented, centered on vertical mobility, with 16 floors, with a high obsolescence of resources and high maintenance costs. There is also The Mexoeiro, hospital center with outpatient areas, inaugurated in 89; the Nicolás Peña, centre of medium and long stay; the Rebulón, which was the psychiatric hospital; and Coia and The Doubleda, which were centers of specialities. And now Chuvi is a teaching hospital complex with more than 1,300 beds and providing assistance to a health population of 437,440 patients in the south of Pontevedra province; 26 municipalities grouped into 7 integrated health areas. And, as I said at the beginning, within this complex it is decided that there must be a change, that there must be a change, that new infrastructure must be created. Why? Because the population of this area is growing, there are bad, old infrastructures, and with that vertical limitation, and a clear aging; new care techniques to be applied. And it's decided to create a new hospital, with all guarantees, the hospital that deserves the Vigo metropolitan area. At that moment, I have to tell you that it is decided by a clearly public modality, with public assistance. You used to say earlier that you didn't want to join Vigo's professionals, but I'd like to ask you if all the health professionals working in Vigo are actually Sergas officials or hired by a private company. It's clearly not like that. That's why I think there's a very big effort, a determined action by the Board so that the Vigo area has to have the healthcare quality it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u319	Thank you, Counselor. Replica shift. Mr. Losada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u320	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is, my ability to learn – from which I feel satisfied – is infinite. I appreciate the history of medicine today, but I didn't ask you at all about it. I know that the former Admiral Vierna Hospital is vertical and has 19 floors; it could even be an underground mine, but it's a 19-storey building, which we all know. Look, Counselor, I want to tell you five things. The first: clearly, the public-private financing system for building hospital infrastructure is a business for builders, who are not deny. Actiona is not Doctors Without Borders, it is a construction company that has dividends and that pays dividends to its shareholders...–Mr. Dorado, whenever you want, ask you, that you will surely thank the advisor for the question.– Second question, look, you were mayor of Baiona, and you saw the indecent –duries – billboards paid with public money, in which you could, indeed, "Vigo public hospital". You see you believe it, but it's fake, the hospital isn't public. Third question: the proof that it is not public is that it is not in the Sergas property register, it is in the balance of the Action UTE. So it's not Sergas. I know the workers are Sergas, I know, I'm here! And I don't have to repeat myself, because I insist that I already know. I'm saying the hospital isn't public because it's not in Sergas property census, it's in the properties and stock balance sheet of Actora, Counsellor. And, look, the professionals, of course, respect them, of course, respect them; those who didn't respect them -- I don't know if you remember them -- were their predecessor when they said they were protesting for something so obvious that the lab was close to the entrance door of the critical sick and what they wanted was new offices. These were the ones that didn't respect professionals, doctors, nurses or nurses or the janitors of Vigo hospital. New offices, Counsellor, that was the central argument of the council that you now preside over. And finally, business benefits. Actually, for Action and tangentially also for Povervisa. And look, 200,000 people on the street in Vigo, the PP razed in the municipal elections, and the PP is going to be razed in the autonomous elections by that hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which, as much as they publish, by many stories that contain us, is private; it's from Actiona and Copasa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u321	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u322	Thank you very much. In the end, it turns out that the question was clear. The question had no interest in health matters, which is what I came to talk about here. You came here to talk about elections; about municipal elections, autonomy, general elections. Well... I'm here to talk about something important that affects us all, those who, of course, are from the Vigo metropolitan area, because we're going to be treated there, and I hope Mr. Losada too; I don't want it, but, if you have to go, go to this big hospital that we have in Vigo. I want to tell you that those we know of Vigo's health know, of course, that there were problems, and that's why Junta de Galicia decides to build a new hospital, but not just build a new hospital, but make a total redistribution of area. Redistribution is still in progress. It is a slow, complex process, which, of course, needs the collaboration of all the world, of all the world! Professionals are already involved, of course. I fully respect the statements that any professional can make, of the scope he wants, and, of course, of all citizens in the area of Vigo. And I think it's very important, very interesting, rather than reading newspaper headlines sometimes, to know what the citizens themselves say were patients of this hospital, and they all talk about the wonders of that hospital. When they compare what happened to him in the General and what happened to him now in the new hospital, they say: because the truth is we've improved and much, we've improved a lot. This is an exciting project, the most important project in Spain right now. But call me attention, Mr. Losada, that you are against this kind of creation or construction of new hospitals, when you and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party have done so in autonomy where they ruled, in Balearics, for example... so, Mr. Losada... so, Mr. Losada, let me speak man! [[Murmurs.]] Be a Democrat, let me talk, Mr. Losada, which I think I come here to talk about health; I'm not going to talk about elections, I'm going to talk about health. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And that's why I'm saying, look, this is a project, as I said before, excitingly, it's a project that needs support from all over the world, from all professionals to the district councils, from all of them, and, of course, until now there's not much help, I have to say it. They criticise anything that can be done in the hospital, and curiously, in addition, Mr. Losada, I think the Vigo area should defend what is being done, the great effort that we are doing among all, the professionals and the citizens, so that this goes ahead. I have to tell you that, of course, the contributions that the optionals have made, those that have signed this letter and those that have not signed it – which are mostly, but are equally important – are to create what we want: a great health service in that area. And, of course, I have to tell you that since you worked, we have not only talked about a change – as I said before – for Nicolas Peña, but we have closed the Rebulón, for assistance, we have closed centers that no longer had the needs covered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u323	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u324	...and we're doing working groups, because the most important thing about all this is building equipment, not building buildings, but building equipment, and that's what we're doing. The potential of the Vigo Hospital Complex is immense, and we have to take advantage of it, I really say. We want everyone to work together, because in the end, health is everyone's and it's for everyone. That's why I would be very grateful if all those politically involved could help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u325	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the impact on Galician forest potential of the aid lines published in the Official Journal of Galicia of 30 December 2015 for the defence and support of the forest sector and of the professionals and industries that develop their activity in the field of the use of the mountain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u326	To put the question you have the word Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u327	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. We repeat data that we all know, but which shows the richness in the forest matter of the community and its potential: Of the more than 2 million hectares of forest surface, more than 1,400,000 are trees, and more than 606,000 hectares, without trees, in the mountains. The forest sector represents around 2% of the Greek economy, if we speak in gross added value. It is high if we compare it with Spain, 1.4%, or Europe, 1.6%. Galicia cuts each year around 8 million cubic metres of wood for the processing industry; it represents 50% of the annual cuts across Spain. And another million for wood. The scales leave more than 300 million euros in origin in the owners and generate a joint invoicing of the industrial sector of around 1,600 million euros, counting the first processing industry, paper pulp and furniture. The Greek sawmills produce 43% of national production, the board industry manufactures 33%, the pulp production is 35%, and the furniture and carpentry industry is 8%. In 52 municipalities, the forest-based industry accounts for more than 30% of industrial activity. In comarcas such as La Fonsgrada, in Lugo, Terra Chá, Bergantiños, Fisterra, La Limia or Verín, forest is among the first three industrial activities. Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has affected the wood market by demand linked to construction, but the prospects for the future are positive because of the increase in consumption and the possible lack of wood in Europe over the next few decades. We must also not forget other productions, betting for diversity on the mountain, because, contrary to the monoculture empowerment, of what we have always been accused of since the opposition, the management of its counsellorship leaps into the conservation and valorization of the forest masses of native leafy ones and even other productive alternatives of the forest surfaces, in tune with the European forestry strategy. Let us remember that 84.21 % of the final production of forest sources is wood for processing and that other products occupy 15.79 %. Finally, you must continue to help from the administrations to develop the potential of the Galician mountain with positive management via incentives. We can talk about improving taxation, bonuses, public aid, such as the annual calls from its forest owners council, those that refer to the question we formulate, which contribute to better management, with higher private investments, obtaining higher quality and quantity in wood production, as well as increasing prices. Let us wait, Counselor, for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u328	Thank you, Mrs. Pacín. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u329	Mrs. García Pacín, in fact, the forest sector is fundamental in our territory, the territory of Galicia, and proof of this is the number of jobs, which is not contemptible, which is close to 70,000, between direct and indirect. So this board is going to make an effort to continue to improve and restructure our forest sector. We know that two thirds of our territory is productive in the forest field, we know it's moving forward in recent years, but we had to give a boost, and we had to give a boost to the capacity that Galicia has to generate wealth and employment in this area; an area that is undoubtedly strategic both in wood production and in its transformation. Fifteen million euros are the ones that we have available for this year, 2016, in different order; orders that will undoubtedly favour us in different fields, both in the environment and in the field of forest production; to which we must add that with this reorganization that we intend, we are going to go to the line of ending what every year makes us put an enormous amount of money on the table, which is to put out the fires that year by year will destroy us. I want to tell you that within this line of 15 million euros we're going to continue promoting forestry, increasing the forested surface, betting on diversity and thereby ending the monospecific masses. We are acting on the existing forest masses, with particular attention to the consolidation of the masses and of leafy cadifoli, through the application of forestry improvements. At the same time, we want to work to reduce the risk of fires, with the value of land, and to materialize the preventive actions envisaged in the law enforcement of fires. We also want to get wooded mountains that have high productions of sufficient quality, which allow the development of our industry, of our transformation. There's no more to go around Galicia to see what we're doing in this area, and to see how many people settle in the countryside, thanks to the forest. At the same time, we will achieve a balanced territorial development of rural economies and communities, including job creation and conservation. In this way, with these 15 million euros, we will promote the competitiveness of the forest sector. And no less important is also improving the safety of workers; it improves whether there is sufficient profitability in farms through the conversion and modernization of the machinery of small and medium-sized enterprises that has our forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u330	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mrs. García Pacín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u331	Fifteen million euros of public funds in investments for 2016 is a clear and determined bet of its council in the calls it reported. If you can detail in detail, we can contradict the opposition groups when they repeatedly affirm that they have occasion, knowing that they lie shamelessly, when they say that their management favors the agrarian forestation of land being aware of the current norms that prevent them, that we favor, lords, the monoculture – especially the whole of the eucalyptus –, another falsity, when we bet for diversification. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When the truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the nationalists – both in AGE and in BNG – what they want is to make monoculture disappear, tell them clearly. And socialists don't know, they don't answer, I'm able to vote against a regulation on the management of eucalyptus cultivation and at the same time abstain when BNG claims that nitens must be banned. Yes, the truth is, they're very contradictory. [[Murmurs.]] They also claim that Junta does not protect the forest masses from native leafy, when there are many departments that supervise shorts and activities with chestnuts, oaks... and even new plantations with logging purposes or as fruit production. The opposition prefers, instead of actions that encourage private investment with public aid to improve management, the Council opts for other measures or other pathways such as enforcement with inspections and more sanctions. But we are glad, Madam Counsellor, that all actions of its responsibility in the field of forest concern the creation and maintenance of employment in this sector, deepens the competitiveness of industrial initiatives, promotes species diversity and enhances forest production. Waiting for the required concretions, we thank you for the data on the aids you will continue, ladies and gentlemen, with the development of the potential forest of Galicia. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u332	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica from the Government. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u333	Madam President, thank you very much. Well, the truth is, we have to value the 70,000 jobs that the Greek forest gives. And on that line we're going to work, and the first of the aid that's already published is reforestation, from which they will benefit, with two and a half million euros, private owners individually, associations and groups of private owners, agricultural cooperatives, pro-individuals, social entities, communities of goods, lots of sticks, sophor and other legal persons, as well as communities of neighboring mountains in common. To this we have to add 10 million euros plus –7 for the year 2016, 3 for the year 2017 – that will be addressed to the forest sector. That is, we invest in equipment and installations – specific machinery, processors, self-loaders – and also in the implementation of business management tools. To encourage forestry in forests – which is the third order we've already taken away, as it was before them on their day when I came here to present the budget – we count on this budget with 6 million euros for 2016. And private owners will also benefit individually, associations and groups of private owners, cooperatives, pro-individuals, local entities, among many others. Nothing despicable is also the amount for the creation of sulphur; 5 are in progress and 25 are requested for this year. It's 250,000 euros in two lines: one line for its constitution, the second line is for the start of its activity. [[Murmurs.]] In the latter case, groups of forest-owners formally constituted and registered in the Register of Associations of the Presidency Council, Public Administrations and Justice. Others are directed to private entities that group forest owners in order to manage and market in common the forest resources of the land they manage, registered according to the sectoral legislation applicable to them, and to the sulphur itself, as a prior inscription in the Sofor Registry to obtain their final registration – a statement of 5 constituted and 25 requested –. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this important effort is worth the effort for the good of the Italian countryside. And it is worth spending 15 million euros only for this year 2016, because there are several axes: on the one hand, reorganization, reforestation, fighting fires, on the other hand, while avoiding those monocultures that so many people like to criticize, but, however, they should go a little further towards the countryside and see the farms.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u334	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u335	Walk, live, stay, taste, talk. That's what they should do to eventually be able to have a minimal vision of what the Greek forest is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All the more, we have 70,000 jobs and, above all, environmental care, which is fundamental.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u336	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the evaluation of the Galician board of data published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment in relation to the closure of farms in 2015 in the Welsh dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u337	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u338	Well, we're going to talk about measurable, not poetry, palpating rurals. Counsellor, your policies objectively destroy the primary sector. There is a demolition of the effects of these policies. When the People's Party arrived at the Government of Galicia in 2009, there were 71,600 people occupied in the agriculture, livestock, hunting and forestry sector, and in December 2015 there were only 45,000 left. More than 25,000 jobs were destroyed in this agricultural and forestry sector, 35 per cent of the jobs that were there when they arrived, a silent conversion that did not cover but which is very important for this country and its rural area. We also refer on this initiative to data on the closure of dairy holdings in the Spanish State: 70% of the milk holdings that have been closed in the Spanish State are Germans, Counsellor. And it's no coincidence, because all the data in Galicia's dairy sector have been the worst in the state for too long. It's been a long time since many of them have been charged under production costs and therefore many of them have to close or face truly dramatic situations. A failure of the Government of Galician Union to leave the moneywinners in the face of a grave situation, an incapacitated, irresponsible government, missing and, above all, always responsible in their statements for the situation they live in. And we ask, Counsellor, what are you doing about this data? Did you have anything to do with the policies of the People's Party in the Council on the occurrence of this data, Counsellor? And, beyond that, what can you offer the gainful in the next spring and this situation? What measures can you offer, in addition to contradictions, attacks on themselves, inconsistencies, disorientation and circumvent responsibility and their inability? You were just saying, in an interview with Radio Gaga, that they hadn't prepared for the finalization stage. You were talking about controlling production, regulating markets. But if you were less than two years ago, you supported anything else in the common agricultural policy, Counsellor! You should answer two very simple questions: what they've done wrong for us to be in this situation, whether they have some responsibility, never assumed by you, and what they're going to change so that this situation doesn't go that way. I ask you to speak seriously, I beg you to answer, I beg you to answer with respect to the owners of this country and to tell clearly what is your responsibility in the data of the past and what will change to change this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u339	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez García. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u340	President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez García, believe me I can smile, but every time I come here to answer a question I'm serious about. Believe me, as a sheep's daughter, I don't insult any sheep and no Welshman, I don't do it in the countryside and I don't do it in the urban. And believe me that I'm talking about measurable issues, different is what is that rod of measurement in which context we do it and what conclusion we want to reach. And, therefore, speaking of measurable issues, I tell you that in January 2015 there were 17,090 dairy farms in Spain, of which 9,606 were Welsh; in December 2015, 16,292 farms in Spain – of course, here I do not add those of the Canary Islands, who know that for the first time they made their statement in 2015 – of which 9,132 are Welsh. This means that in Galicia in 2015 milk holdings decreased by 4.9 %. And apart from that, I can give you more data: in Catalonia, they dropped by 5.3%; in Castile-Leon, by 5.7%; in Asturias, the same value as in Galicia. Two are the main reasons in Galicia: one, the merger of farms – from which you never want to talk, and I opt for that merger of farms, because it's competitiveness, it's quality of life, among other things – and another, that you also have to recognize that they are small farms that have no generational relief. And they can't have generational relief because their structure is very small and therefore the quality of life of these people would not be worthy. If we analyze – that we can analyze – the evolution of the number of farms in Galicia in the last eight years – that are the last eight years that governs here in Galicia the People's Party – I tell you that farms of less than 100,000 kilograms of milk have decreased by 55%; those of between 100,000 and 200,000 have decreased by 41%; those of between 200,000 and 300,000, 32%. But in parallel with this, I'm telling you that more productive stockholdings, those that are between 400,000 and 700,000 kilograms, have increased by 54%. And those that are in over 700,000 kilograms have increased their percentage by 205%. This gives us an image of where we want to go. And Galicia is actually restructuring itself, and it's been restructuring itself for many years. And to you, who also likes to give figures, we can tell you that there has actually been a decrease, and I'd like you to go back and check how many farms you closed when you ruled the Bipartite: an average of 1,770 annual holdings.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u341	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u342	Which has declined considerably since the People's Party ruled, at 70%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u343	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u344	Counsellor, you are a disgrace to this country. Look, after so many times... yes, Mr. Farinas, I'm ashamed, because, look, after so many times as we ask about the situation in the dairy sector, with the owners, who have been mobilising for almost two years, leaving their work to claim what the Public Service should do, he came here and never recognized any responsibility for that situation. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Farinas Sobrino utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's why you're a shame. [[Applause]] And they're responsible for the situation for the gain rather than making self-criticism of everything you've done wrong: milk foods, the territorial base, land management... you're incapacitated because you want to desert the countryside of this country, Mr. Fariñas. I'm ashamed of you because instead of recognizing that your policies have failed on top still criminalize the protests of the owners, which is why I'm ashamed. I'm ashamed because they come here to lie. It turns out that the reduction in surplus holdings is due to the merger of holdings. Of course, and with that merger we just had 71,000 jobs in the countryside when you entered the government to have 45,000, 35 percent of the jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector that you destroyed. The restructuring, Galicia is being restructured. Yes, a downward restructuring, losing population, destroying jobs, since you guys got here, they've destroyed 130,000 jobs. We're very competitive, when we're 500,000, we're going to be very competitive, we're going to have a very high per capita income, because obviously all the wealth will be much less shared. Counsellor, don't miss the gain and society. What have you done wrong and what will change so that the owners can live on their jobs, so that the owners don't suffer from the abuse of distribution and industry, so that at least you will comply with the agreement signed in September 2015? Answer, Counselor, out of respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u345	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica from the Government. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u346	Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, you scream, insult. Me and we will work. And we'll work for the gain. We'll be next to the gain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Besides, they're committed to saying we insult them. [[Murmurs.]] But how will I insult a gainer as a daughter of gainers! But it's impossible, but well, you... No, that's another argument, of course. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's living in the middle of the glove, it's being with them, it's holding them hand and going to Brussels and claiming Galician singularity, it's talking to the industries and getting to the agreement that they pick up milk the same, in the same amounts, that they did in 2015, that's talking about transparency in the international market, in the industry and also in the distribution, is making a big pact to get a strong milk, in the future. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you are committed to the disappearance of Galicia, you are committed to the disappearance of Greek milk. And the figures we handle are quite different. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Galicia is still the ninth largest producer region in the European Union, the ninth largest region. Galicia in recent years – i.e., we are talking about specific data that you can evaluate and evaluate, and besides that they are public domain – from 2010 to 2015, i.e., in an exciting way, production increased by 15.8%, 15.8%!, not exceeded by any of the communities with a productive vocation. For example, Andalusia increased by 9.7%; Castile-Leon, by 7.5%; Cantabria, by 4.8%; Asturias, by 4.6%; Galicia, by 15.8%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But apart from all this, I want to tell you that the territorial base has increased, and they have nothing more to do with exploitation. The number of milk cows increased – yes, Mr. Sánchez – in 2012, 543,000; 2015, 565,000, 22,000 more milk cows. But, like force! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Player, year 2012 – I've been talking to you about ante data, like who says – 351,000; year 2015, 361,000. I mean, 10,000 more players. Look, we choose – because we choose the gainr and also because it has to be like this – by the size, by the production, by the territorial base, by increasing the number of heads, by quality of life and, above all, by competitiveness. And that's where you're working in different areas. It's being done with the Ministry, it's being done with the European Union. And we'll be able to have a strong sector, as it's proven every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u347	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Farinas Sobrino asks for the word.]] What do you want the word for, Mr. Fariñas? What do you want the word for? First ask me. What do you want her for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u348	I call for allusions on the basis of Article 76.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-24-DSPG143.u349	No, no, Mr. Farinas, you have no word. [[Murmurs.]] After the next item is finished, the session is closed. Thank you.
