ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u1	Good afternoon. Let's start the session, please. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. They justified their inattentiveness to Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and Maria Luísa Pierres López. Promises or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u2	We're already on the agenda. As a preliminary point, the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, all of which comply with Article 5 of the Regulation. I am seeking the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new and new Members, in place of the honourable Member and the Members who have caused low. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question that we will ask from this presidency. I ask the secretary, Mrs Raquel Arias, to call on the honourable Member and the honourable Members to answer the question posed by this presidency from the seat itself. Ladies and gentlemen, do you swear or promise to abide by and abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia? Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u3	Thank you, President. Do you give Maria Ángeles Antón Vilasánchez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u4	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u5	Don Silvestre José Balsairos Guinarte?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u7	Don Antonio Mouriño Villar?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u8	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u9	Don José Alberto Pazos Couñago?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u10	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u11	Don Daniel Vega Pérez?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u12	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u13	Thank you. Once a promise or an oath is made, they acquire the full status of Members of this House. Welcome, of course. Second point. Accountancy of matters handled by the Permanent Deputy since the dissolution of the Chamber on 2 August 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u14	In accordance with Articles 57 and 59 of the Rules of Procedure, you shall take part in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia number 14, of 15 November 2016, and shall publish the resolution of this Presidency taking into account the matters dealt with by the Permanent Parliament since the dissolution of the IX legislation on 2 August 2016. I stress that both Members and parliamentary groups may, in accordance with Article 57 of the Regulation, formulate objections against the validity of such agreements within 15 days of the date. If it does not occur, it shall be processed by the one set out in paragraph 3 of that article. And we are already in the debate, in this case, on non-law proposals. Firstly, accumulating debate on the proposals which appear first and fourth. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the recovery by the Government of Greece of direct management and public exploitation, in full, of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the reversal by the Government of the grant of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, of Vigo, for its public management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u15	No amendments were tabled. We therefore begin with the debate. First of all, you have the word Mrs. Eva Solla has for the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u16	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first initiative of legislation that I have the honour to be able to debate with you here. Similarly, in the previous legislation we also opened, precisely, with an initiative dealing with health rights and public health itself. In Marea he has a commitment to the reversal of Cunqueiro Alvaro to public health, so he has defended it, and that is why we also wanted this to be the first health initiative our group brought to the plenary. So we wanted to do it and so we did it. We're not going to get tired, although it's true that the debate on Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is not a new debate. And we're not going to get tired because we understand that the only way to ensure equity, universality and quality is public health, one hundred percent. However, the People's Party has decided to deprive us of a hospital in some way one hundred percent public. Your lordships already know that and we've been discussing it on other occasions. It was already known the circumstances — when the People's Party opted for public-private collaboration — that this formula, precisely put in place for other hospitals outside our community, was more expensive and left the centers in the hands of private management. Choosing this formula was not a ballad, it wasn't circumstantial. He had and has two clear and obvious reasons for the privatiser's pursuit. One. The gradual privatization of health through the deterioration of the quality lent. We'll talk after this. Two. Opening the way for big companies to manage health. And another, by falsifying in some way — although legal — the public accounts, because the criteria of Maastricht and Eurostat allowed precisely this debt that the Government was not committing to public debt, something which is really wrong because it is loosing health budgets for many years. The Government of the People's Party was not only the one most indebted to our community not to public services, but to pay for current spending, but also that the payment commitments made prevent real investment in public health. Since the beginning — as we have already moved into other debates — the project has raised multiple problems. The difficulties precisely of the financial system, contrary to what was said in the report commissioned by the Health Council to Pricewaterhousecoopers, have resulted in the impossibility of the temporary union of companies reaching the necessary budget. It meant, as you already know, that the delivery of the hospital has been delayed for more than a year, failing — first failure, as we have already transferred — the requirements of conditions, which established the impossibility of extension after thirty-one months of work. I had to be delivered in 2014, and it wasn't until 2015 when we had our own hospital. A fraud method was established, because the nails said that the company's risk and venture had to finance the work and, however, it was the Public Administration that rescued the profit of the private company, either by the European Investment Bank's credits, or by a risk capital fund of the ICO; that is, public money. In addition, this principle of risk and adventure of the company has been breached, and that is precisely what led to the complaint of the Association in Defense of Public Health in the European courts, that complaint which is being processed. We don't know what's going to happen to her at the legal level, but regardless of that, we know that there are political leaders here. The PFI model has been translated into a poor private management of all hospital services. We have it on the table: maintenance, energy supply, central services and a cannon that, as we have already said, implies that the hospital is not ours for now, but that we have it in the hands of a private company. We must not forget that, in addition to the public administration, the centre has a private agency, not to mention that the hospital counts, obviously – we have moved it here too – with a significant reduction in the surface of the services and the number of beds and with a cost that quadrupled the initial cost. The consequences have been negative since the beginning. The privatization of the kitchen, laundry and maintenance, I assumed a forced mobility of the staff did, which was public, in other centers, as can be the General Hospital, converting them to many and many of them into personal lockers, while, incomprehensiblely, the staff of janitors and janitors suffered a cut in their capabilities, their obligations, as professionals, that we had to fight on the street with them and with them and they and they were the ones who won back to those professional skills. The absence of the central laboratory service is probably the most serious, the most important, and the sterilization service in the center, facts that involve, as your lords know, a continuous displacement of materials in a transport, of course, private. All this was in some way crowned in 2015, with inefficient health management in the transfer of the hospital itself; inefficient management that was recognized even by the Galician Union. During all these years, trade unions, social groups and political organizations have claimed to the Council of Galicia the reversion of the hospital to the public system, only the People's Party is against the rest of citizenship. And the People's Party even voted against, in this House, a proposal that at that time moved Alternative Glaga from the Left to create an investigation commission to clarify where hospital funds were going, which had happened with funding and why content was being allowed to be breached in the demands of conditions. And yet they voted against because they are enemies of the truth. A number of proposals were made to the Galician Parliament to resolve this situation. We weren't here as in Marea. I have had the pleasure of discussing this matter as alternate representative of Left-Galga. Godselles easy to return to the hospital by taking over the breaches I have just reported. He has the Health Council's means and methods of a legal and administrative nature to take care of himself, but they didn't want to. They were also given the proposal, of course, to take over the purchase, the acquisition, the concessionary society. They didn't want it either, because the reality is that the goal is met, the goal was precisely to privatize public health. It was proposed from the very beginning, even when you adopted the Health Insurance Act, as it did not, alone, so people could choose the centre, including private centres, in free competition with public centers, only to damage public health and reduce its quality. It has happened, as it is now, that privatization is done in various ways: firstly, direct, and, secondly, as far as investment is concerned. This Health Insurance Act has been accompanied, as it does not, by the renewal of the health concert with Povervisa — EUR 90 million annually — but, in addition, by a deterioration of public health, orchestrated by the Galician Council itself, to facilitate precisely what is happening today: that more than one thousand people ask to move from public health to private — in this case to Povervisa — because the deterioration of public health is evident, despite the great effort, of our health professionals, who may not at times undergo the cuts that the Council of Galicia does. They have the round business: deterioration of health, a privatized hospital and the transvasion of money to the private. Mr. Feijóo moved in the debate of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u17	Quiet, please. There's a lot of noise in the room and bothers who's in the use of the word. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u18	...in the investment debate, in the full past, that during his term of office private concerts had been reduced, and it is clearly false, because he himself misses the truth of what the public bodies say. The Galician Economic and Social Council, in the last report, warned of an increase of 1.4 of the con­cerned, reaching 19.6% of the budget on health care. It's the data of the Galician Economic and Social Council, it's not the data of En Marea. We are here, on the one hand, privatizing directly, and on the other hand, questioning or leaving the health budgets in extreme danger, with payment commitments up to the year 2040, and that is why this group and this honourable Member will defend, if necessary, each session, during the next four years, that the hospital may be, once and for all, public, from which it should never have left. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u20	We started this legislation with socialists defending our public health, which coincided almost exactly in time with the sad anniversary of Ernest Lluch's death, who inspired our health policy of public health. In that defense we will be and in that defense we will be. [[Applause]] And today we bring here a symbol, the symbol that is Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Let's make some history. The starting point of this debate is this model of public-private construction in which there is, of course, an apparent accounting advantage, which is that they do not count as public debt, of course, those money invested in that construction. However, this is an already wrong starting point. Because who sought the goods?, who had to find money to support that construction, in public entities, in the risk capital funds of the ICO, in the European Investment Bank? It's a bad start point. And we have a debt, a real debt, a debt that we can put into 700 million euros for the next few years. It's an amount of a real debt that we're going to have to pay all of us in spite of the advantages of accounting that we're not yet able to understand. The debt's there. From that start point on, there's a history. The starting point is wrong, the history is chaotic: an initial budget multiplied. It's not that if you re-adjust, it's not that you increase a small percentage, it's not that you have to estimate some minor difference. The initial budget is multiplied. When someone has to multiply an initial budget that's not low, someone's done the wrong thing. We have some services, and one might think that if the budget is multiplied, services will be multiplied. Nothing further from reality. We have a smaller hospital than he was initially hired, but along the way we have complaints from Fairy because the concessionaires do not pay taxes, we have claims from the dealerships to Junta for overcosts in the works. For their own mistakes, claims to the Board; and claims from the Fairy because they don't pay taxes. But business people always understand each other, and the hospital's over. With a wrong starting point, a chaotic history, we inevitably have a bad result. In terms of management, it's bad. There's more money invested than planned, there's a less than expected hospital, there's a mortgage in the next few years. That's right, there's a concessionaire company that has profits every year: 42 million euros of canon this year 2016, and about 70 million annually, starting next year. Of course it was a business, not for citizens. One out of three euros invested in Vigo in the coming years will be destined to pay this canon. We have a management deficit, a management error, but we have a bad outcome at the care level. There are fewer beds than expected. They were promised -- let's do it in round numbers -- 1,200 beds, and there's 845. We talked about 2,006 beds with that data "more than 2,000 beds in Vigo's health area, Galicia's largest health area." Where are the 2,006 beds? They don't exist. We have construction deficiencies that cause assistance problems, we have poorly designed spaces, we have poor quality materials, we have constant arrangements needs. I, who yesterday had the opportunity to be in the Álvaro Cunqueiro itself, listened to how to change a plug it is necessary to pay the dealership, to change a plug! Deficiencies in resources lead us to have a laundry that cannot, by a natural question, address a very large volume of work tightening staff — which is how some people understand the work relationship — we have a laundry problem that can't afford to have clean sheets for the whole world and for all patients. We have problems with the material, with the sterilization material, which it doesn't, which it doesn't serve, which it's not possible to do all the necessary operations. We have an aid deficit caused by an inefficient construction model. What we're trying to bring here is proposals. So we have a proposal: the clear proposal is to reverse that model, negotiate with the concessionaires to rebuild our hospitals with public money and to be 100 percent public, to own the administration itself, which is the one that has to guarantee rights. Health is a right, we can't hand over the management of our rights to business. We accept that one may agree with some company to make roads, but not hospitals. Health policy cannot be defined by manufacturers. And that starts to happen in this country. And so we saw that, in the investment debate — as we all have attended here — the area devoted to health by the President — little — was mainly devoted to building — not to all the necessary, and some probably unnecessary — construction. But we're talking about construction. We've come to the point that, to talk about health in this country, we're talking about building. And, seeing the record, we are proposing that we rethink the model. Why? Why, in this case, revert that system to Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital? For two reasons. One is an economic reason. The calculation may be, about — depending on the negotiation — at a saving of EUR 20 million per year. It's really interesting to be able to make that savings. I don't understand why we wouldn't agree. But, besides, and above all, for an aid reason, because we will be the owners of the decisions on our health. That's our proposal: one hundred percent public health, one hundred percent public health. It's a model question, it's actually a model question. We are in favour of the fact that health cannot be the reason for this debate, that model of infrastructure construction. Not in health care, please! You manage Welsh health, the Government of Wales — I said to them — manages Welsh health. We are making a proposal that we consider to be good, that we consider it productive for this country. We invite them to study it, really, that we can talk about it, that we can talk about it argumentally. It's a good decision. Let's take control of our health, that's our proposal. I therefore invite you to study it and, in addition, to do so from that enormous will expressed here in the last few days, a desire for dialogue, a desire for this Parliament, which has been a place of agreements, to remain a place of many agreements. And for that, I beg you to speak about data, to explain why the model is being modeled, to explain why they think it is necessary to defend this model for this health, because they think it is essential to use a model that has its origin — because they haven't invented anything — in Margaret Thatcher or in Esperanza Aguirre, which are two examples that I personally invite them to explore on other roads. We believe, necessarily, that we must defend another position, and therefore our proposal is there, with a desire to dialogue, with a willingness to be productive for all, with a desire not to make this debate a debate about whether the fault was Zapatero, the Vigo Council, the Bipartite Council, the doctors... It doesn't tell us we're against doctors. They don't come up here to tell us we're against doctors. The health of this country works thanks to health care and despite some decisions. We're on the health care side, which is what they're defending. So let's do this debate, build this debate, naturally. But let's ask them to listen to this debate, because if they don't, we'll be delivering health care to decisions that are far from decisions that defend the public, far from the public's vision of citizens' rights, and they'll therefore be delivering our health decision to people who have no interest in our health. We therefore invite them to make this debate productive. From there they will certainly have our tender hand if they want to talk about this debate. If they want to talk, we're here. But I invite you to study it. Because if we don't, we'll understand that you, who want to defend, who say defending, public health, defend a model that doesn't defend it. So hurry up. That's what we asked them to do. And if you really think this is a productive model, let's talk about it, because I think it's necessary, we think it's necessary, we think it's good. I insist: sit down, but let's do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u21	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u22	Good afternoon. Indeed, once again, the new Vigo hospital, the construction of the new Vigo hospital, the debate in the Greek Parliament; which is a very clear example that responds to the process of privatizing public health in which the People's Party is committed, in which it is committed, therefore, Núñez Feijóo. They are engaged in an act of giving Welsh public health to the interests of large capital, investment funds, venture capital funds, multinationals; ultimately, foreign capital, capital outside Galicia. And as a result, we are losing influence and decision-making ability on public health. The People's Party is promoting the parasitization of Galicia's public health by private companies and is giving them one of the greatest wealth we possess as a society, which is a quality public health, to this private capital. The Galician Nationalist Block has fought, fought and will combat this political strategy. Because we're talking about a political strategy, it's not a financing problem. They can try to conceal it, dress it, paint it as they want, but it's not a problem of political financing, it's an ideological decision to which the rest of their actions are subjected. And the new hospital in Vigo, the Alvaro Cunqueiro, is the very clear example, it is this star proposal of the People's Party that, more than the star proposal, has become the proposal for the incomplete deadlines, the treatment of favor to friendly companies, the embezzlement of public money from the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks to favor the business and a few, at the very least of the time. The position of the Galician Nationalist Block is well known. From the very first moment, we have shown our radical opposition to this privatization model, a model where adjudicate companies are not at risk, as has already been shown throughout this process. The only thing at risk is the Public Service, and the resources of the Greeks and the Greeks. The BNG says high and clear that it is necessary to curb this health counter-reform of the People's Party and to bet on a public, universal, equitable health model, without pay, without pay, financed by a fair, progressive tax system, where he pays more than he has and not the sickest. We defend — and we have put forward multiple initiatives — to reverse privatisations and recover them for public health. And within these reversals, of course, is the reversal of Álvaro Cunqueiro, because it is necessary to rescue this hospital from private control and that it becomes the public hospital that must always be, in the reference hospital for the health area of Vigo, the reference hospital so needed in a health area that it has almost half its population with a concert with a private entity. And the request for rescue is being carried out all over the world, it is being carried out by neighbors and neighbors, by professionals, by trade unions, by political organizations. It is a cry in the street, it is a cry that, if the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party, had ruled to meet the needs and demands of the people, would have heeded. But the reality is that the People's Party does not rule to meet the needs of the Greek people. The People's Party governs to meet the interests of power, to meet the interests of the great capital. And they therefore converted what was to be a public hospital, a public work, into a private work. The People's Party carried out a model change that meant turning what that public hospital would be into a private hospital. And I insist that it's a private hospital, as much as anyone comes here to defend the position of the People's Party will get tired of saying no, that it's a public hospital and so on. But once again we also tell you that it's a private hospital because it's on the balance sheet and in the accounting of the concessionaire company. It's not on the balance sheet or on Sergas' accounts, it's on the balance sheet and on the accounts of the concessionaire company. And this company is renting it. Yes, Counselor, don't smile, that's right. Or is he able to bring here somewhere where Vigo's new hospital, Álvaro Cunqueiro, appears in Sergas' balance? No, isn't that still on the balance sheet of the concessionaire company? What Sergas does is rent it, what Sergas does is rent it for 20 years. And he pays him a canon, indeed, a canon which means that a very important part of Galician public health budget is going to pay for that canon. We pay it with public money, it's on the balance sheet of the concessionaire company. The woman is the private company, the concessionaire company, and Sergas pays that cannon. BNG is clear that the decision that Vigo's new hospital was private — which had been surrendered for the benefit of a private company — was a political decision, was an ideological decision. For the same reason, we are clear that reversing this situation must start another political decision, it must be based on the political decision to rescue it. We have to turn that decision around. So, rescue mechanisms exist. The People's Party, in the Government of the Union, has already lost the opportunity to rescue it, has lost the opportunity when the UTE was broken and had no resources to get out ahead, and it was the Board itself who sought those resources with public resources. He had a chance when the company failed to meet deadlines, when the company failed to carry out the project that was planned. But obviously the People's Party didn't want to rescue him. What the People's Party, the Government of Galicia, did was to favor and look for all kinds of alternatives so that the company would continue to be the owner of the Vigo hospital. So we're going to vote in favour of these two initiatives. What they ask, with some difference, is that they turn. So let us make the political decision to return, to recover Vigo Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital for public health, and then look for the mechanism — which is less expensive, the fastest, the most effective. But in any case what this is about today is to make the political decision that our country's public health, our country's health infrastructure, be public and not for the benefit of private companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u24	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. First of all, I would like to welcome this Parliament to all the new Members and Members of this Parliament. We began the legislation as we finished the past, bringing to this House matters that currently do not concern most of Galician citizenship. And proof of this is the very scarce attendance at the last demonstration that took place in Vigo, convened or supported by the political parties of that bench and by different unions, which does not compare to the demonstration of the previous year. Of course, since its inception, many Vigo citizens have come to the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital and they already know their facilities, their services and the important improvement for the health care that he has represented for Vigo's neighbours and neighbors and comparts the inauguration of this great infrastructure. Today, in Vigo, there are other news in the newspapers: about Galicia's most modern and structured sleep unit, about the shock wave unit of the rehabilitation service, which is Galicia's most advanced, about the first specific area for child psyrurgical care, about technological advances in obstetrics and xynecology, about humanization of pregnancy programs, about endoscopic capsules that make 60,000 images in 8 hours of endoscopy, and about the new stroke units, the thrombectomy that is made in these units, about psychogeria, about the infant-juvenile unit of psychiatric hospitalization, or about the unit of medullary injuries. In short, there are more than 13,000 surgeries, about 300,000 hospital stays, 200,000 emergencies, and 465,000 consultations. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the news that reflects the newspapers, and of those that are now spoken of at the level of health in the city of Vigo. Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is public. We know that if Mrs. Prado goes with her illness to the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, they won't charge her, the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital is public, being owned by Sergas and, therefore, the rest of the vigues and the rest of the citizens, the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] It did, yes, with a model of public-private collaboration and fulfilling the State Public Sector Contracts Act. The so-called bill was drawn up by a socialist government — which is why I am surprised, Mr. Torrado, that in the text of the explanatory statement of your initiative you speak of the fact that it was the governments on the right who invented it — and was processed in a presentation in which a Member of the BNG, Mr. Francisco Rodríguez, and another of the United Left, Mrs. Isaura Navarro. In this bill it contains public-private collaboration as one of the terms of contract. None of the various articles that regulate this collaboration received a single amendment from the People's Party, but neither from the Nationalist Block Galego nor from the United Left, unanimously approving the original text proposed by the Socialist Group. And none of these articles were later modified by the Popular Group, and it was exactly the same as the presentation. So, I think it is clear that the legal rule underpinning the contract of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital has been created and approved by representatives of the Congress of Deputies, gentlemen, of the opposition groups, who now reject what they first regulate. And it was thanks to this type of contract that a large hospital could be built for Vigo and its territory, despite all the pitfalls, the dependents of the difficult economic and financial situation of the crisis and those caused by the lack of collaboration of the Vigo Council. And so a hospital was done in record time, in less than four years from the beginning of the works. As a reference, the last large hospital that was built in Spain was that of Asturias, and it took twelve years to build it. Of course, you may not like the model chosen for the construction and put into operation of the hospital, but I don't think you can question its legality or transparency in processing. He had all the favourable reports of the recruiting table technicians, the Legal Counsel and the Intervention. Certainly, with the economic crisis they had to reformulate, and even give up, many constructive health projects that were underway throughout Spain. But the Government of Galician Union, the Government of the People's Party, considered that providing Vigo with a new hospital was an absolute priority that could not be delayed, and built the Cunqueiro Alvaro. Health care in Galicia, and of course in Álvaro Cunqueiro, is a hundred percent public, is provided by professionals of the Galician Health Service and is managed by this same body. A different question is non-clinical services — restoration, laundry, maintenance, cleaning, etc. — which can be done by external companies, as is done in health services in our environment with governments of all political colors. Of the 12 non-health services that are currently outsourced in the Cunqueriro, 9 were already at the time of the two-party government. We're not going to support their initiatives. The ransom, ladies and gentlemen, if it would involve drawing funds from other parts necessary for the proper functioning of the public health system in Greece. That would compromise the possibility of investment in areas of relevance to Welsh health, as you say, Mr. Torrado, on your initiative. To this day, Vigo has a new hospital, has a hospital with a very good equipment, has a hospital of present and future, has a hospital with a flexible architectural design, with reserves of space to accommodate the growth of services and to adapt to future needs. That's the reality of health in Vigo in November 2016. With regard to the reversals, I, as a citizen, lived in 2005 the promise of the reversal of the highway from the coast of Coruña to Carballo, which was promised in the programs of the parties who lost the elections and who later ruled. I can tell you that at the time they ruled there were no reversals. Of course, it was the guilt of the People's Party, and it was the time that the most upsurges had the highway The Coruña-Carball. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u25	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica from the authors of the non-legislation proposal. From the bench or from here, Mrs. Solla? From the scene? Come here, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u26	Thank you, President. First of all, I am transferring our support to the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Party, which deals, in addition, with the same matter. It's surprising that the People's Party boasts itself being able to move that these matters don't concern citizenship. I wonder who you are to boast in possession of the truth. That the People's Party wins elections doesn't mean that all citizenship is in favour of health privatization. It's more, if it were for health care and health care, you wouldn't have won the election. [[Murmurs.]] You seem to be surprised. They probably despise all the opinions of the health personnel, and of all the people who went out on the street. Indeed, Mr. Centeno, 200 000 people went to the street. This year we celebrate the birthday of that mobilization. Obviously it wasn't the same mobilization. But you set the example of the news coming out of today's paper. Maybe we could have more news about the functioning of public health if you don't deduct the money to fatten the accounts of private companies. You can't question your legality, you said. Home!, you have an ongoing demand. But no matter what happens, I have just shown here — and we have done so for four years — the situation in which conditions were breached. The People's Party usually uses a mantra that's fake, a fake tatology that the hospital is public because it's not charged for health care. That's what they needed! That's what they'd like, in addition. And that's what they suggested on one occasion. What's the matter is that citizenship wouldn't allow such a thing. Then you'd really lose the election. And that's why, only for that, you can't get him started. It's a transfer manipulation that the hospital is public because it's not charged. The hospital is private because we are paying an annual canon with a sub-recost of EUR 1 billion, EUR 1 billion that spoils the health budget. What was a priority for you wasn't to sign the contract because you needed the hospital, which was a priority for you to sign the contract before the legislation that required you to have a preliminary report from the Ministry of Business on how the PCI itself would be applied. Because, with their accounts, that report would have been obviously negative, and under other circumstances you could not have built this private hospital, private until we had just paid the canon, and deprived of the benefits of a concessionaire working with a public credit from the European Investment Bank, which, if you do not know, does not facilitate credit to the private company. And the same is true of those public venture capital entities, which are not to benefit the multimillionaire profits of the private enterprise. So we bring this initiative back — and I finish it now — and I repeat that we will bring it a thousand times and again because we believe that what you have actually done is a waste of the health budget. What you've done is privatize, what we've got right now is a private hospital. And we're not going to stop until this hospital is, once and for all, public. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank the spokesperson for the People's Party for welcoming the new ones. I don't know if it was for me, but I appreciate it anyway. If that was the dialogue, see if we take the dialogue a little further. The first times are always like this. We undoubtedly support the En Marea initiative, as it could not be otherwise, because we are in the same defense. Mr. Núñez Centeno, it's good to remember the last demonstration. I don't know if I wanted to invoke the previous one. I say it because the previous one ended with the former advisor outside of the Government. I don't know if the current councillor agrees to call. If you have anything, solve it another time. [[Applause]] In any case, if you like, we can talk about a counselor who had to go for a demonstration. He once mentioned the Bipartite. But even if he hadn't done it — he did it once, he's fine — he ended up mentioning the highway The Coruña-Carball. To talk about the construction model of Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo ended up talking about the highway The Coruña-Carballo. Please, let's talk about argumental debates, I think it's very productive. By the way, on the legislative amendments to which it refers in the State I suppose it will refer to 15/1997. In 1997, I ruled a president who was not a socialist; legitimately elected, but at last I keep my views on that president. The ransom would involve bringing funds to another place. We can take them from the same place as we take the funds that we now use to pay the mortgage. It's the same money, but instead of paying them to a private company, we use them. No, it's not hard, it's possible to do it, I invite you to do it. Actually, it's possible. And finally, they don't cover a person doesn't mean the hospital isn't private. People don't pay for going to Povervisa; the one that's derived, no. Of course, it's good that we admit, then, that public health is paying private hospitals to derive people. Well, because this is something everybody knows but you don't verbalize. So is it a private hospital or not? Because I think it is. So we're paying him a private hospital. And why are the people who, in fact, have already gone to Alvaro Cunqueiro are going all to Povervisa? And that's why we pay 75 million euros every year to Povervisa, to derive those people who don't want to go to the Cunquerero. Of course, that doesn't mean that Povervisa is a public hospital, even though he has more people who come from public health than they have themselves. You don't mean that, let's not cheat on the debate. That you don't pay in a hospital doesn't mean it's public; there's a lot of things that are private and you don't pay for going. We therefore propose that we discuss the debate. We're not talking about the debate on why to turn back. There's a possibility of saving up in this debate, and it's a possible aid improvement. We propose this debate, we know why not, we already know here all the accounting baggage -- as if it were an Excel sheet -- of all the services that are given at the hospital, but they could be given those same services with a public title, and that's our proposal, but we haven't heard why yet. Maybe, it's because explaining why I wouldn't leave many things in sight that I understand they might not want to leave. But, then, something's hiding because, allow me, but I think that transparency at all wasn't the procedure. So we really invite them to have this debate. We invite them to vote in favour of this proposal, although you have already stated that they would not, but we are still in time of reflection. So, I invite you to think about it and not use it to cheat on public debate, private debate, or to mix with assistance issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u30	...with management issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u31	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies regarding the introduction of an amendment to Article 74.2 of the recast text of the Law regulating local farms, referring to the possibility of regulation by the municipalities of a bonus in the full quota of the taxes on immovable property
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u32	This motion for a non-law has tabled two amendments, one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the other from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u33	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u34	Good afternoon, everyone. Two non-law proposals and we've already learned the first lesson in this People's Party legislation: you can steal and loot public objects whenever demonstrations are not historic in attendance; you can do business with health whenever you don't have an electoral cost. That's like everything else: whenever there's no electoral cost, there can be defeats; whenever there's no electoral cost, there can be corruption; whenever there's no electoral cost, people can go to the House of Ourense, etc. People's Party's first lesson. Today we present a non-law proposal that seeks to improve in a very specific respect: the unfair fiscal policy that applies in most cases. This is probably not a big debate on fiscal policy that will have to be faced with the unfair path of taxation in the state and in this country, but in the event that one day will apply what can be approved here, it can be a relief or a help for many people, for those who receive the tax on immovable property, it can represent an economic problem. This is therefore a very specific but contextual issue, since this general situation of injustice is the sum of specific situations like this. The People's Party claims it's low taxes and it's going to lower taxes. Hands to your wallets! when the People's Party tells the working people this. The question — as if tax discharge is being talked about — is who is being lowered and who is benefiting from tax discharges? The result of the fiscal policy of recent years applied by Mr Montoro and company is well known by most people — the working people, pensioners, the common people — and most of them know what has meant in recent years the application of that fiscal policy. Yes, Mr. Puy, you may laugh, but it is so; surely it would be something else. [[Mr. Puy Fraga laughs.]] They know well that in recent years — with the same wages or worse, or in unemployment — many people have had to see the value added tax, the special taxes, the taxes on immovable property tax — the IBI — affecting those who have less. The People's Party has consolidated the tax system which is unfair and regressive for many years now, which has nothing to do with what is set out in Article 31.1. of the Constitution, which says that everyone will contribute to the maintenance of public expenditure in accordance with their economic capacity through a fair tax system inspired by the principles of equality and progressiveness, and that in no case will have confiscating scope. That's what the Constitution says; that's yes, in institutional respect, we all have to promise or swear the Constitution with a lot of noise and also a lot of hypocrisy when it is done. Montoro's fiscal reform has been a further example of these policies: IRPF reform that favoured the highest incomes, Sicav maintenance — from the collective investment companies' jobs — and a reduction in the tax rate of large companies from 30% to 25%... It does not concern the rules of wealth tax or the tax on inheritances and donations, with which it continues to retain the tax benefits of personal heritage societies, those who come to operate the great estates, etc. None of the amendments to this tax reform specifically refer to large assets, not even tax fraud, which is 80% of the tax fraud in this country. Of course, great fortunes applaud this fiscal policy: they lower the tax rates of corporate tax and income tax and keep them the bucca of bonuses, exemptions and possibilities for circumvention and tax evasion. The rest of the citizenship has been reduced by the IRPF, but savings do not at all compensate for the increase in IBI and special taxes or immovable property tax. These policies also have a second derivative, which is that these policies prevent people from having enough public resources to strengthen public services. It's cut into health care, it's cut into social services, it's cut into education, and those cuts don't harm the great heritage or great fortunes, they hurt most again. I'm a double injustice and a double redistribution to the reverse of wealth. There is no reform of the IRPF, there is no fiscal reform — as I proposed by the People's Party — which compensates for, a family with medium and low incomes, the huge drop in aid to dependency in this country or the rise in basic service costs, as the Galician Economic and Social Council puts it perfectly, which says that electricity, gas and fuel have risen by 31% — often due to taxes —; the rates of waste, water and sewerage, which have increased by 21%; the rise of the teaching group, by 16% — and it has not been cut into teaching by the People's Party, have risen by 16%, that people had to spend in teaching—; 11% on pharmaceuticals, medicines, etc.; or the group of elderly residences, home aids for adults, daycare facilities, etc., 17%. That is to say, they are examples of how, by lowering wages — and above all by lower wages — they had to endure increased basic services. Is it just to exemplify a whole set of tax measures that affect most people? It's not so ambitious our proposal, not law. The property tax is just another example of an unfairly applied tax whose collection we all know has risen dramatically in the last five years. It went up by 50%, which means in Galicia 200 million euros on the basis of Mr. Rajoy's tax rate rise to compensate for the loss of income from the municipalities or the upgrades or the regularization process that is still being given, which I think will affect in 2017 a hundred municipalities and which is particularly affecting rural areas, where many people — whether they have the income they have, have a healthy economy or are pensioners who cover the minimum pension after contributions to the farm, etc. — will have to suffer a rise of 50, 60 or 70%. And they're going to have to pay for the sheds, the pendants or ships they've ever served to have a gainful holding and they're not even active, etc. What these IBI climbs mean for these people is a problem, and in this very Parliament we have a unanimous agreement in this regard. I mean, when Mr. Feijóo talks about "zero taxes in rural," I think it's a joke, a joke, very tasteful. According to the 2016 Tax Benefit Report, the impact of this "zero taxes on rural" is four and a half million euros. On the other hand, the impact of IBI's rise on the regularisation process will mean more than 100 million euros raised more. So we're not talking about a matter that doesn't matter. That 50% increase in collection - - with those 200 million applied - will have to take steps to make it more fair. And that is what we are trying to do with this proposal, which can legally establish social bonuses — which up to now are not included in the consolidated text of the Law regulating local farms — so that families or passive subjects with economic difficulties can be rewarded. In accordance with the applicable legislation, the recast text of the Local Property Regulatory Law, the municipalities may establish in their tax orders the system of tax rates of compliance with the provisions legally, including the bonus scheme of Article 71 of this text, which, in the case of the IBI, refers to 74.2; paragraph and article which does not provide for such a positive subsidy in relation to the economic situation of taxable persons or also on the basis of the cadastral value. As a consequence of which, and given that the quota of the IBI does not expressly allow the municipalities to establish those previously marked bonuses, it would be necessary to give them legal certainty and a way to the municipalities that want to apply this type of bonus, a way that gives them sufficient legal certainty. There are councils that have already done so in the form of grants and bonuses, but there are also opposing judgments by the Supreme Court, which, of course, says that there is no legislative text on what to defend. That's what we propose to change. We propose that the municipalities, by order, be able to regulate a bonus of up to 90% of the full tax quota in favour of those passive subjects who believe an economic situation of inadequate family income; that is determined and concrete in their respective ordinance, which can also modulate the content of the bonus according to the catastrophic value of the immovable. I sincerely hope that this proposal will be adopted by all groups of Parliament. We think it's a question of justice and that if our role here, as representatives of the Greek people, is to improve people's living conditions and fight for equality and justice, that's just a very small contribution, but ultimately, it's a contribution that I think must be unanimously supported. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u36	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The PSdEG-PSOE Parliamentary Group tabled an amendment to the non-legislative proposal put forward by the En Marea Group, since, although we agree at the bottom of the proposal, we believe that we could establish some specificity. The crisis situation in recent years has led many people to situations of extreme economic and social vulnerability. Many people lost their jobs and came up with almost unknown situations up to this crisis, as families with all their members unemployed. The latest data from the EPA in the second quarter of 2016 tell us that right now in Galicia there are 72,100 families in which all its members are unemployed; homes without any income, 34,800 in Galicia, according to the EPA in the second quarter of 2016, and people who, having a job, do not arrive at the end of the month due to the precariousness of wages, born a new social class, which is the poor working class. Yesterday we could see in the newspapers that 1 out of every 4 Greeks lives with less than 1,000 euros a month. To this we must add the lack of protection for the Government, the decrease in unemployment coverage, the exclusion of medicines from the Public Health Catalogue, the decrease in aid for textbooks and school materials and the payment in school lunches. This whole new situation leads many families to choose from among those expenses they have to face — food, light, heating, medicine, child education — or to pay taxes. Once again, as an administration closer to citizenship and the best aware of the social reality of its population, the councils have substantially increased the stakes allocated to social emergency in order to address cases of special vulnerability, thus preventing social exclusion as well as cases of indigentness for many people. And the councils also took charge, in some cases, through this social emergency route, of the payment of the IBI of the usual housing of those people who had to choose and those who didn't give them to pay this tax, which the only thing I suppose would be that they were caught by unpaid amounts and still above the increments they were supposed not to pay on a voluntary basis. It should also be recalled that it was the Central Government, through his Minister of Fairy, Mr. Montoro, who approved at the last Council of Ministers of the year 2011 that the 8100 Spanish municipalities could freely raise their taxes, and in this case, above all, taxes associated with housing ownership; i.e. the IBI. IBI is one of the most important incomes for local farms. It's a direct tribute of a real character that records the value of immovable property. So it's a tax on property. And precisely here we wanted to make an addendum, an amendment to the proposal by the En Marea group, saying that we agree with the bonus, but with the possibility that this bonus will be only in cases of habitual housing. And we also propose that, in order to be able to apply this bonus as objectively as possible, be social services, social services technicians and techniques, those who issue a report, since they are better aware of the situation of families in their municipalities and also those who have the ability to collect all the information necessary and objective to establish such bonus. So the text we propose is that the municipalities, by order, may regulate a bonus of up to 90% of the full share of the IBI of the habitual housing in favour of those passive subjects who believe an economic situation of insufficiency of family income through a technical report of municipal social services and who can also modulate the content of the bonus based on the catastrophic value of the immovable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very grateful that it is for those who speak today to have the opportunity to go up to this stage and clarify the position of the People's Parliamentary Group on the proposal that is being moved to us today, and that is because of various circumstances. The first is to take the oath as a Member in this House just a few minutes ago — in my name, and I am sure that I am also speaking on behalf of the four colleagues who made the same oath. We will do everything possible to be able to live up to the dignity that demands the representation given to us by the Greeks. The second circumstance — which I am very grateful for — is that this first intervention has to do with the world of local administration, a world to which, for reasons of obligation, I have addressed myself with a certain depth in recent years. In addition, there is a third reason for satisfaction — or I thought so — that it was first of all to check the new climate of respect and institutional normality with which all the groups that make up this House intend to develop the X legislation. And there was another last reason -- if you allow me -- probably derived from this new climate, to check that in the first intervention I have in this session I had the opportunity to coincide at least with a substantial part of the claims that you expose in your non-law proposition. It is also true that, after hearing some intervention, you have to assume that there is no complete satisfaction, especially with regard to this point, because, of course, let me simply compare public-private collaboration with public theft, with theft of the public thing, or come to give lessons of nepotism to this House, at least surprising, especially when you rule somewhere where you committed to recovering part of those concessions that had been granted by the various municipal administrations and until now it has not been found that they did anything in that sense. I don't know if that turns them into accomplices of that alleged theft. I think it's not; honestly, I don't think it's the right terms. As I don't think the model that you propose to end nepotism is the model that is being carried out, for example, in the municipality that houses this House. I don't think that's it. In any case, if I have to admit to you that there is no danger in your case that no one believes that election results legitimize such activities. So don't worry about this, they're safe from that suspicion. It would seem, frankly, that you gentlemen, listening to your intervention, that we haven't recently passed through two electoral processes. There was also a moment when I feared that we had no opportunity to discuss the subject that brought us here, that it was nothing other than the modification of a guy who, at least... of a bonus, or, in any case, an article of the Local Farm Law that affects the municipalities, municipalities, and in this case, the German municipality. I was saying it was a coincidence because for once you make a proposal to lower tax pressure, and it seems to us that this is interesting, and also for lower incomes, which we also find very interesting. In fact, these are two issues that the People's Party has long defended: the fall in taxes and the progressiveity of taxes. So I promised myself a very happy day to think we'd have a chance to match this. Of all it is known that until now the governments of the group of which you are part have not been characterized by clearly betting for a tax rate discount or a tax pressure discount; that's not the case. In fact, probably tax rises are becoming one of the signs of identity of En Marea where it governs. Of course there are IBI climbs nationally, and you have contributed to them in a very remarkable way. So, man, they assume part of their responsibility in this regard. In any case, I hope we have an opportunity to see if the proposal they make today, that downside, goes in the sense that, at last, a rectification of a way of acting or if it's just a summer cloud. So what I'm saying to you about the specific proposal you make is that there are a couple of issues that call attention to you: the first one, which you want a legal amendment, a modification of a law, and they do it through a non-law proposal, which certainly seems to us to be a curious question. And the second of the issues that draw our attention is that, if I may say so, you've misjudged the House. You intend to make a change to a state-owned law. In view of your representation in the General Courts, it seems reasonable that this amendment should be submitted there and not here. But finally, we understand that, unless we intend to address immediately the amendment to article 74.2 of the Local Farm Law, what they want to do today is simply a call for attention on this point; a call to reflection, we understand what it will be. In any case, once the proposed amendment is discarded as soon as possible, since neither the appropriate legislative instrument nor the relevant chamber has been adopted, it seems to me that, if what we are going to make is a political-institutional declaration, we do not back it to the principals affected by it; that is, to the municipalities, in this case to the Greek councils. And so, Your Honor, we have registered a amendment — which you already know — that urges the Government of Greece to do what you wish to do, but by negotiating previously the terms of that amendment which is intended with the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces; that is, with the legitimate representative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u40	...of the Greek municipalism. If the climate of collaboration that seems to exist in this House — or at least that we have created so far — we assume that it will be easy to accept this issue and that we have the opportunity to speak to the legitimate representatives of the Greek councils as they want to articulate this tax.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u42	In any case, if it isn't, we'll have to disagree, and what we're going to do is control that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u43	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u44	...that they do the Town Councils and check if the tide is really willing to fulfill any of their commitments or if it will continue to blame the others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u45	Thank you, Mr. Pazos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u46	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u47	Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u48	Good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is, I am pleased with the dissatisfaction expressed by the representative of the People's Party because, of course, we did not come here to please you. And they've made, and they're doing so, a call to institutional respect, dialogue, debate and dialectic combat, also healthy, and you could also apply the story, because I think they have outstanding doses of sovereignty in their interventions. It seemed to them a little bit of modesty and humility. They're fine with most absolutes, but they don't have to be branded every two by three. The BNG Group wants to announce support for this Marea initiative. We also think it is right and we support the addendum that the Socialist Party made in what it has to do with the reference to habitual housing; the other one we understand is not, because this could be perfectly regulated through the municipal ordinance itself. And in the case of the amendment of the People's Party, we would accept it as an addition, but not a substitution. We understand that it would be logical to reach an agreement in the bosom of Fegamp, but it could be included as an addition to the proposal of the En Marea group. In any case, what we want is to take advantage of this issue, this debate, to make a reflection on two issues that seem important to us. Firstly, a reflection on the taxation and financing of public administrations, and more specifically on the municipal administration. We understand that we need to open a debate on the need to seek solutions to the financial insufficiency of the municipalities, and, in the case of the Greek municipalities, more rightly because of the discrimination they suffer in the distribution of central government funds, which logically creates a great difficulty in providing essential public services for the well-being and quality of life and in responding to people's needs. I would like to remind you here that with the current financing system we receive less EUR 50 per capita than the average of the state; 209 compared to the average of EUR 259 of the state. Therefore, the BNG defends and brings here this debate, a new model of local funding that must take into account, among other criteria, the higher costs of providing services derived from our social, territorial and economic reality. Secondly, we would also like to bring here the debate on the need to seek other solutions by means of general, universal benefits for the people who need them, and to do so by means of a social security income that allows minimum incomes to meet the basic needs to have a decent life for all people who need them, and that should be included in the policy framework against social exclusion and poverty from the very point of view of the people's governments. In this sense, I want to bring here some data that seems particularly dramatic: there are currently 702,000 people in Galicia who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, 25% of the population — one in four — and 132,000 people in extreme poverty who survive with incomes of less than 332 euros. This situation especially affects pensioners. 62% have income below the poverty line. We are talking about 473,000 people — 473,000 people! — and this situation is particularly serious in the case of widows. And also poverty, poverty, affect people who have jobs, to the point that more than 14 percent of people with work are in poverty. So we're talking about a drama, a real social tragedy, which we have to deal with with with different policies, policies, and, for example, in Galicia, through a social emergency plan that addresses the basic needs of people in the field of housing, energy, food, education, health, transport or access to leisure or culture. And this, to avoid real dramas that are taking place right now in our country; real situations of suffering and also death, to which some people come because of these situations of social injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u49	Thank you, Mr Bará. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u50	Mr. Pazos, those who here have spoken so much about institutional respect have been you. I have respect for people and for institutions according to which they work for people and not against people. That's my commitment. You spoke of nepotism for some allusions I made to Mr. Baltar, and compared it to the government of Santiago de Compostela. I am delighted to undergo the examination of a Baltar against Martiño Noriega, a People's Party of Ourense against Open Compostela, perfectly. There was even a very curious contrast between the Countess Roa and Paula Prado, Mr. Swords, etc., and Compostela Open; that's why he won the Open Compostela, because people didn't want the People's Party of Corruption. That was the contrast and it was only a year and a half ago. Therefore, before that, we have no fear. [[Applause]] As for the tax pressure, you said in Marea I had to correct. Let's see. The main responsibility for raising property tax in this country, those 200 million euros that went up, was Mr. Rajoy, by decree. So those who have to correct are you. Don't come here to fool people. In a tax just like the VAT, just like the special taxes you've raised — while they still allow the great estates to escape and circumvent taxes — those taxes that do not discriminate against people's income. This is this proposal. And the same thing that you're willing to understand for this proposal, you should think about the rest of the taxes people are filming. In the last few years of the crisis, with low wages and low wages, you've raised all the taxes most taxed by those below. And, on the other hand, there's been no taxes on large fortunes and high incomes. They did everything they said in Article 31 of the Constitution. You who, with that institutional respect — I repeat once again — come here with great respect to swearing and promising the Constitution, and scandalizing some of the opposition's promises. What needs to be done, more than that institutional respect, than that washing of face and paraphernalia, what needs to be done is, truly, to comply with the contents of the Constitution, since you are defined constitutionalists, which we neither define ourselves, and that, yes, we defend some of the values that were represented there. And I've already said this, also tell you that it is clear that the House and the powers are state-owned, of course it is. There are also state competences for the transfer of AP-9. What did you guys do in Madrid with AP-9? And instead here, you have supported a bill by the German Parliament to claim that transfer. It's okay, it's not incompatible. He will be presented at the Congress of Deputies, will be discussed at the Congress of Deputies and In Marea will vote the same as in the Congress of Deputies. What we don't know is if the People's Party is going to vote the same as in Madrid, which is usually different. You can see the weight Mr. Feijóo has in Madrid. And finally, as far as amendments are concerned, I think you can incorporate questions from both. I have a text proposal that incorporates all with some nuance that I will transfer to the spokesmen to see if such an agreement is possible. We believe that, as far as the Socialist Party in Galicia is concerned, it is very appropriate to incorporate the usual housing, but we believe that the reports of municipal services, which are not only of social services, should be incorporated into the standard order that we believe should be approved and agreed with the Fegamp...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u52	And that's another deal we'll transfer to the People's Party. I hope it will be approved in these terms or in some similar way that we will be able to deal with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u53	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure adequate attention to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network, as well as the sexual and reproductive rights of rural women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u54	This non-law proposal has been amended by all groups representing this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u55	For the defence of the proposition, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u56	Thank you, good afternoon to all. From the Galego Nationalist Block we will bring back to this House the defense of the right to abortion with due guarantees in public health, after we know the court sentence that condemns Sergas for negligence in case he hits a woman from the Navy district in Lugo. A conviction that we have urged since our organization not to resort to by the Health Council, because publicly it has not yet been said that it would not be made. With this non-law proposition, at the BNG we want to go beyond the specific case and guarantee the right to abortion in public health for all women, ending with cases such as those at the Hospital da Coruña and the architect Marcide de Ferrol, where women were forced to expel the fetus in the bathroom of the hospital room itself, alone, without the support of any professional, or that were derived, like the complainant's case, to private clinics, some even outside the territory of Galicia. These women's testimonies, and Sergas' own condemnation, reveal the precarious conditions in which pregnancy interruptions are carried out from the second quarter of week 12 in our country. In Galicia, the last of the official figures, 3,351 voluntary interruptions of pregnancy occurred in 2014, only 260 of which occurred on the public health network. In addition, data were provided by that director of health care in the Health Commission in the previous legislation. I mean, 92 percent of the abortions in Galicia were performed in private clinics. So, we don't know the figure of those who took place outside the country in private outpatient centres that have agreements signed with Sergas, such as the Isadora Clinic in Madrid. That's information that hasn't been published so far. At the centre of the debate lies the conflict between the exercise of two rights: that of women to voluntarily interrupt our pregnancy, in accordance with the time limits law, and that of the hospital staff to declare themselves conscientiously objecting not to practice them. This latter fact leads us to the fact that, in most of the public hospitality network in Galicia, abortions are not practiced because professionals declare themselves in conscientious objection. In this sense, we bring a concrete proposal to shield the right of women to abortion, with due guarantees, on the public health network, also taking into account the situation generated by the right to object, if we really believe that social and political debate should be opened around the objection in a short time. We live in a mature, adult society, able to open traditionally controversial debates to continue moving forward, clearing up the right to abortion of the ideological and moralist burden that still stands over it. But today what we propose is the creation of two reference centers in our country for the attention of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy: one in the north and one in the south of the country. With specialized health personnel, with resources and equipment, as a guarantee of the implementation of international protocols on sexual and reproductive rights. The creation of the two reference centres means a concrete commitment to the guarantee of fundamental right as is abortion in public health in our country, and within the territory of our own Galician territory, regardless of the week of management in which abortion occurs. The People's Party is proposing an amendment that only looks at one centre to deal with cases that occur from week 22 of management, but these represent less than 1% of the total abortions that occur in our country. The bulk of women would therefore remain in the current situation: mostly pushed into private health. That's why we urge the Galician Union to convene squares where it is established as a requirement not to declare itself an objector of conscience and to establish a concrete protocol that provides women with adequate care in abortions. A protocol that must gather, to our understanding, as it has already been defending the feminist movement itself, to collect concrete cases of termination of pregnancy from the second trimester of management, induction and expulsion in a room conditioned with the possibility of assistance and epidural anesthesia, and the care of professionals of gynecology and matrona, beyond emotional support throughout the process, addressing in an integral way the physical, but also psychological, health of women. Finally, in this proposal, we also urge the Government of Greece to provide the rural councils of gynecology professionals in reference family guidance centres to ensure the attention of all women without discrimination for any geographical reason, regardless of whether we live in rural or urban areas. When we met that sentence condemning Sergas, the president of the Galician Council said they would seek a solution to ensure the combination of these two rights: on one side, the right of women to abort, but also the right of professionals to declare themselves conscientiously. Today, what we bring is a concrete proposal to guarantee those two rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Law 2/2010, on sexual and reproductive health — the law, textually — said: "The development of sexuality and the capacity to procreation are directly linked to the dignity of the person. The decision to have children and when to have children is one of the most intimate and personal matters people face throughout their lives. Public authorities are obliged not to interfere with these kinds of decisions." The first preambular paragraph of a law sometimes says a lot more than many political intentions. We're talking right here today, because it's a right. Public administrations are to guarantee rights, among other things. And yet we have an inefficient system. Inefficient, because today that right cannot be fully guaranteed in Galicia and therefore we have come here to demand that a law be complied with. We agree with the initiative put forward, although I now put forward some idea that I believe can enrich it, but of course we agree. There is, of course, a very low percentage of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy occurring in Galicia, as we all know. Not all voluntary interruptions of the desired pregnancy occur in Welsh public health. The administration is slow, in a case where, in addition, slowness causes a lot of problems, because we're not talking about something that can take time. The slowness, in these cases, we're talking about how it works from quarter to quarter, about having to change the medical decisions that are made. And it happens, with this slowness, and it happens, with this disinterest from the administration to enforce this law, that there are cases, as we all know, of a woman who goes through a painful process, physically and emotionally; that she sees as her decision, her right, she looks null. In such cases, in which justice has already spoken, it is true that none of the pain suffered can be repaired, and the Administration cannot remain calm about it. He can't get himself to find out. We're only asking that the law be observed. But to keep the law, sometimes it seems more complicated than it seems, because this administration has the feeling that it doesn't like to enforce some laws. They very much like some political leaders in this country to tell others that they have to comply with the laws even if they don't like it. I agree with that idea, deeply agree. That's why I invite the German Government to enforce this law, even if you don't like it, because this law doesn't like it. They make it happen because it's a right. Don't be revengers. Don't harm people because they don't agree with their decisions. Be efficient, please. We have the necessary resources, personal and material, so that this right can be fulfilled and exercised. Even though in the last few days we even heard that the sins of abortion could be forgiven, we're here to talk about rights, they don't think that's enough. We're about to enforce those regulations. So we're going to be in favour of this proposal, we're going to be in favour of it because we believe that it picks up the essence of what we stand for, which is that fulfilment of a right. No one, no one aborts with joy, no one does with joy, no one does with a superhuman will to say, "How I like it." They are painful, hard, difficult processes. Let's not do anything like Administration, as leaders of this country, let's not do anything that deepens even more in the pain of the people who have to go through this process because there is no right not to comply with their rights. So we're going to support that idea, but we're going to suggest, in addition, first, including how it amends — of course it couldn't be otherwise — that women who want to exercise that right can do it in Galicia, which today is not met. And in addition, we propose a part of the amendment so that there are medical decisions about the methods, because there may be a need to evaluate each case, every detail, so to speak, but we're just talking about micro-details in an idea that picks up what we think. We truly believe in people's freedom to decide about their own life. I am convinced that this concept is not the property of any party, it is not the property of any ideology, it is not, and I am fully convinced, but our responsibility is to exercise in that sense and therefore I ask them to consider this proposal as well, that they take it into consideration, because it is only asking them to comply with a law, a law that gives them rights, because when laws that give rights, we are not only violating the law, but violating the right. And it doesn't matter to us, we don't have legitimacy and, of course, we can't violate a law to make people's rights not met. So in that debate we will always be. Remember, the public authorities are obliged not to interfere with this kind of decision, either by action or by default, that's what the law says and therefore we invite them to comply with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u59	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u60	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From En Marea we will vote in favour of this non-law proposal because we understand that its approval and its application would be a step forward in the defence of the sexual and reproductive rights of the Greek women, especially those living in rural areas. In fact, the only amendment we propose is because we understand that we must bet on doing these procedures always in the Italian public health. And the other part of the amendment is motivated because we understand that we should know the specific causes, which is what's driving the Greek women to have to travel so many miles to be able to exercise this right, because if they're selling, both in the media and in many audiences, that's an option that the women of Greece have but in reality this is not an option, it's an obligation for many of them. He had to lose, four years ago, a woman the uterus and the possibility of being a mother so that the People's Party had reacted once and for all and had now announced, yes, a comprehensive plan. This announcement was made after the harsh sentence had been met which condemns the public administration to pay this woman EUR 270,000, to the woman who risked her life to go to Madrid. So far the protocol was appropriate, a sentence had to be reached for the People's Party to rectify. Of course, there is no compensation that can compensate for all the damage done to this woman, but the minimum would be to put all the means, all the resources necessary, so that this situation will not repeat itself in any case. And this is a question of political will, because Sergas has the skills, Sergas has a hospital network that has enough staff and means, but they're not taking advantage of themselves because they don't want to. Eight months ago, the neglects warned by feminist collectives and the collectives affected at the Coruña Mother and Child Hospital caused this controversy to leap into the media throughout the Spanish state. Then, when this jumped, then, the People's Party was worried too. But, as Olaya said earlier, long before, many women have been denouncing the precarious and terrible conditions in which they had to exercise their right to abortion, alone, without medical care, in a bathroom or having an expulsion period in a crib. This is totally intolerable and, I repeat, giving up these situations is a matter of political will. What has to happen is once and for all a commitment and a real interest in solving this problem. But I have no hope because the truth is you don't put the media because you don't believe in abortion as a right and, therefore, they appoint an anti-abortist activist as head of the Ministry of Health office. So, too, they reformed the Abortion Law in a restrictive way, but they faced the resistance of many women and had to go back. But it wasn't you who removed Minister Gallardón, we went out to the street and made him resign. And I ask myself a question: do you have to wait, again, for these sentences to come?, do you have to wait for the problem to jump into the media for these measures to be articulated, why have not the protocols already been unified, ensuring quality care? In each province, in the health area, attention is completely different and this must end immediately, it is not possible for a single woman to have to go through this calvary again. Why don't we have universal access, on equal terms, to women in rural and urban areas in Galicia? Because the law is not being enforced, the law is not being enforced, because the law expressly says that all women have to have the same access and, at this moment, women living in rural areas have many more difficulties. On the other hand, with regard to the debate on conscientious objection, which also raised the companion of the Nationalist Block, we believe that it is not well regulated but, while well regulated, a right cannot in any case condition a collective right of women to abort. So they would have to look for the formulas needed to solve a problem that is a health problem like any other, it's not different because it affects us only, women, it's the same as others and no woman should ever have to see her life perish because of conscientious objection. The amendment of the People's Party that a reference center... a reference center is not enough, two is the minimum. Of course, we think there should be one in each province but two seems to us that at least. They like it or not, they have to break the ideological barrier. Because behind these derivations is found that, an ideological question of defending the most reactionary values. They like it or not, they also have to be effective in managing, we have to put the necessary means to respect in Galicia the right to decide women about their bodies as a fundamental human right. That's why, in addition to speeches, we want firm commitments and, therefore, above all, we want to make commitments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, we just heard in this House an initiative that deals with a particularly sensitive issue like abortions in the second trimester, many of them esenesic, many of them due to mother's serious illness or malformation of the fetus. This has already been discussed in the past legislation and, of course, an explanation has been given by the Health Counsellor — here in the debate — and by my colleague, Health Spokesman, Aurelio Núñez. And he began by saying that it was a very sensitive subject, so we believe that it must be handled with the utmost seriousness, rigor and respect, both as regards women and professionals involved, because even within the same parties there are different sensibilities on this subject. From the Popular Parliamentary Group we deeply regret the case of the Navy woman and we are aware and we agree with you that the psychological situation of mothers can be very sensitive in these cases, which we want you to go ahead. But what we cannot admit, Your Honor, is that you tell us that these abortions are not practiced in accordance with international protocols. The performances on the Galician health network are the same in all types of termination of pregnancy, there is no difference if it's a spontaneous or voluntary abortion. Here's the abortion care circuit from 14 to 22 weeks. It's the same for both cases, whether a spontaneous abortion or an abortion requested under the alleged Law 2/2010, it's exactly the same, it has no variation. So we, Mr. Torrado, complied with the laws, complied with the laws as could not be otherwise. And I'm surprised you interpret our thinking. They say on their own initiative, too, that Galicia is not complying with the minimums that mark protocols. Well, as you know, as a result of the news you mentioned in the Coruña press last year, an investigation was made and a step forward to give you the result, which I suppose you already know, of the performances performed by the inspectors in the seven EOXI. The inspection team, in its report of 30 March, concluded the following: first, there is no evidence of the existence of a claim made by users in the EOXI; second, the human and material resources devoted to the care of IVEs meet the established standards; and third, the existing protocols are applied. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, if the gynaecologists and the gynaecologists and inspectors claim that the protocols follow them without exception, I will certainly not be, from this rostrum, anyone who questions them, who doubts their words. On the specific case of the patient derived from Madrid, the President of the Board has already shown his concern and discomfort about what happened and, in fact, the Health Counsellor has already said so — here present — that he will not resort to the sentence. Now, to make it also manifest that an error in an intervention does not imply a condemnation to an entire organization. Human errors exist and we can all do them, although in some case the consequences are tremendous for those who suffer them. With regard to the second point, concerning the creation of a reference centre, President Feijóo — as you have already said, Mrs Rodil — admitted that it is possible to improve the provision of VAT care in the sense of giving women a solution in Galicia and that they do not have to move out of this autonomous community. But I think you're in a mistake, because it's good to need that in Galicia, up to 22 weeks of management, the EVEs take place in the EOXI of the Coruña, Vigo, Santiago, Lugo and Pontevedra. As of 22 weeks, it's when they're sent out of the autonomous community and specifically in the EOXI of Ourense, all VE is assumed, regardless of the managerial age of their management. So we agree to apply for this center, but we do not initially consider asking for more than one, it seems sufficient for the present case-by-case. As I'm telling you, up to 22 weeks of gestation, IVs are practiced in the seven EOXI. From the People's Parliamentary Group there is no doubt that we are concerned about the attention given to women in case they have to submit to an IVE because we know it's not a situation for anything pleasant or desirable to them. And that is why we present the amendment we hope to count on your support: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to support the decision of the Health Counsellor not to resort to the judgment of the Continucio-Administrative Judge No2 of Place condemning Sergas for the poor attention of a pregnant woman. Second, create a reference centre for the care of voluntary termination of pregnancy with health personnel specialized in the public health network in Galicia. And third, to ensure comprehensive and quality care for all women who have to interrupt their pregnancy in accordance with the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act, updating the protocol to adapt it to scientific evidence and correcting any dysfunction in their application or assistance to such women." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u64	I always wondered what was said here, and now I know. First, thank the groups of the Socialist Party and more of En Marea for supporting our initiative. And concerning the contributions they made, in the case of the Tide, we will accept the two and propose a transaction for the second one to incorporate that in the statistics published on the official Sergas page they are also included, those abortions that are practiced in private, in total numbers, in rates, as well as in percentages, because at present they are not made public on this track. With regard to the amendments of the Socialist Party, we are not going to support them on a number of issues: the first one, because one of the amendments proposed is the abolition of the two reference centres, which we give special importance to our initiative because we understand that it is the only way in which resources and professionals in our public health network are now available, and in addition to the amount that they now declare in conscientious objection, is the only way to expand resources, increase personnel, expand material and expand equipment. By setting an example, uniquely and exclusively, in Ourense's EOXI, abortions are not practiced; all are declared conscientious objectors. To a large extent, it was made public, and also Dr. Doval — who is a person of fame — so publicly communicated, because of lack of resources and lack of staff, not for a moral or ideological reason. As far as the honourable Member of the People's Party is concerned, there was no formal complaint or complaint from the women who saw themselves in that situation, because they thought that the medical practice being developed was the one that was adjusted with what should be a good benefit in health care, and I say to him, in addition, as a journalist who worked thoroughly on this issue and who could, in addition, interview several of the women — one of them Leticia — who were accused of having to expel their fetus — in this case of 16 weeks — on top of a bucket in the room's own bathroom. They did not, in this sense, submit any written claims, despite the situation so aggravating that they assumed this, because they thought that was how this practice should be carried out. To finish, we're not going to accept either of the other two amendments. In the first case, because it is the first news that we have, either publicly or officially, that the adviser would not present that appeal. What we only wanted — and I will not cause this — was precisely that Sergas did not resort, and we rejoice, in that sense, that the Council had finally decided that this was so. And with regard to the specific care centers for voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, of course we have to be confident of what you tell us now, because we don't know the official figure of those voluntary interruptions of pregnancy that occur or are practiced outside our country or territory. It's that there are no statistical public figures, no official figures, published by the Health Council. What we want and what we stand for in our non-law proposition is that the Union ensures that voluntary interruption of pregnancy is practiced in the public health network. What you're doing is to derive from private clinics women who have to abort from the second trimester of management, such as the Arce clinic, for example, in the Coruña. What we want is to be done within our country's public health network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the realization by the Italian Government of the necessary actions with social agents and, in particular, with trade unions representing the public sector for the fulfilment of the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning the termination of labour contracts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u66	There is an amendment by the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group and by the Group of the European People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u67	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered, on 14 September this year, a judgment stating that compensation between indefinite contracts and temporary contracts must not be different only for this reason, temporality. In the case you know, Ana de Diego, coming from a charge within the Ministry of Defence, in which the Madrid Community High Court itself raised the corresponding prejudice issue, the European Court itself states that the interim contracts also have the right to receive compensation when they terminate their contract. This was also the decision by the court that made the prejudicial issue, the High Court of Justice of Madrid, adopted on 5 October. In the present Spanish labour regulations, indefinite contracts have a compensation of twenty days per year worked at the end of the contract, thirty-three, as you know, in the case of improper redundancies, against the twelve days of temporary contracts, without the fact that contracts of an interim nature or training are entitled to compensation of any kind, as provided for in Article 49.1(c) of the Staff Regulations of Workers. In this judgment, the Community courts argue that this compensation for the purpose of contract cannot be different only, as I said, because of the timeliness of the contract. The duration of the contract is not an objective cause, so the Spanish legislation — the European Court's judgment — contravenes Directive 1999/70, and compensation between indefinite and interim comparable must be equated, as, moreover, the Court of Justice of Social No. 2 of Ourense has recently failed in the field of supplementary education services. In addition, we need to take into account that the Higher Court of Justice Chamber of the Basque Country has broadened this criterion of European justice also to possible contracts, in its judgment of 18 October today, thus equating the scheme of compensation for the purpose of contracts between comparable fixed contracts, as I said, and any contracts, including those of the interim workers. We must point out that Directive 1999/70, which is infringed by Spanish legislation without that of the European Court, incorporates the provisions of the Framework Agreement on fixed-term work, signed on 18 March 1999 by the ESC, Unice and CEEP; that is, both by the European employer and by the trade union organisations at European level. This framework agreement has as one of its principles to improve the quality of fixed-term work, ensuring the application of the principle of non-discrimination and the desire to establish a framework for preventing abuses resulting from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts or from working relationships of this kind. Let us remember that clause 4 of the so-called European Framework Agreement, which is based on the Community's ruling, is entitled to the principle of non-discrimination, pointing out in paragraph 1 that, as far as working conditions are concerned, workers cannot be treated with a contract of a specified duration in a way that is less favourable than fixed workers who are merely having a fixed contract of a fixed duration, unless a different treatment is justified for objective reasons. The Court of Justice of the European Union notes that this inequality in Spanish legislation is even more evident in the case of workers with interim contracts, to whom national legislation does not recognise compensation when that contract ends, even in accordance with its own rules. And if there were any temptation — as we are seeing in certain sectors — to make a restrictive interpretation of this Community judgment, we must bear in mind the principle of social law of the European Union which prevents it. Let us bear in mind the absolute primacy of Community law in resolving harmful matters in accordance with Article 234 of the EC Treaty. In this respect, we must also bring the collation that the European Court itself understands that the concept of "conditions of work" also includes compensation for contracts. It is strongly pointed out that neither the temporal nature of the contractual relationship nor the existence of regulatory provisions in national law relating to the compensation regime of the various types of contracts can in itself constitute objective reasons justifying that difference of treatment. Without prejudice — as we have pointed out in the text of the non-legislative proposal that these recent judicial statements affect the basic labour regulations of State competence, and while the Government of the State analyses its interpretation and possible need for the adaptation of the Staff Regulations to the Community Directive, which is not complied with in accordance with this Community rule, social agents are showing their concern for the effects of these judgments, which requires opening the necessary social dialogue. This is a question which also affects both the private sector and public administrations. However, the State's competence to negotiate and discuss the necessary adaptation of our labour legislation, the application of this new EU jurisprudential doctrine on compensation for the completion of labour contracts has and will necessarily have an important impact, possibly, on our autonomous public sector. Let us remember that we have in the public sector around 300,000 interim contracts, which means about 11% of our country's total public administration staff, which is up to 20% in the education and health sectors. This increase in temporary public employment rates cannot be linked to Galicia's own public sector, which has significantly increased from 10,000 to 15,000 contracts of this kind between 2011 and 2015, to a large extent also because of the restrictions on staff replacement rates, which have prevented the carrying out of the necessary public employment offers to ensure stable staff allocations in basic public services. This shows the absolute need to also take all the measures necessary to harmonize the European social doctrine in this particular case with the conditions of temporary workers in respect of compensation at the end of their contracts and thus no longer be subject to discriminatory treatment with regard to comparable fixed workers. It is high time — and not only because of these European Union judicial statements, which must be observed without interpretation — to cease to deepen the precariousness and quality of employment also in the public sector in Galicia. We could also talk about the other judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the same date, which, on the other hand, questions the temporary coverage of structural functions in the field of public health, but that is also a matter to be raised in another area. However, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has asked the Government of Greece a number of questions. If you've appreciated the quantitative and qualitative impact of these judicial pronouncements on your employment policy from now on. If the Council of Galicia has quantified the number of indefinite, possible and interim employment contracts affected in its various main sectors of activity, either in the General Administration, either in teaching, in health, in social services or in justice, and what measures it intends to take to observe the correct application of this Community judgment. For all this, the Group of the Socialists of Galicia presents this bill in this debate for its approval. We believe that it is time to start regaining the quality of employment, not only because of these mandates of the European courts, which are guiding us on the path that we should be following, but also because, according to the new scenario which seems to us, if we are presented in economic and budgetary terms, we would be able to reverse the social devaluation suffered by employment in general and also by public employment in Galicia in particular. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u69	Thank you. For the Group of Parliament in Marea, José Manuel Lago Peñas speaks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u70	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start by saying a personal confession, and it's the emotion and responsibility that you have to speak to me for the first time in this room. Veterans may have forgotten it, but speaking where the sovereignty of the people of Greece lies to me, of course, gives me great respect. Well, the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Socialist Party refers to the judgment of the European Union Court of Justice of 14 September, in which the court dictates that the acting staff have to have the same rights as the rest of the workers in compensating terms. But on that same day, on September 14, the Court of Justice delivered two judgments which still have the greatest silence. The first of these judgments specifically affects the public administration, and therefore the Council of Galicia, because it states that Spanish courts have to take measures to prevent abuse in the temporary recruitment of public administrations, covering structural squares with employees. I've already warned you: go ahead and prepare, because that abuse of precarious employment in recruitment for people working in the public administration has reached enormously high figures in our country. The second sentence is even more relevant because it affects all employees, not only employees. It affects private sector workers as well. In particular, the judgment of the Court in Case 596/14 considers that the Spanish legislation discriminates against persons employed in temporary contracts, because it does not recognise them with compensation equivalent to that of persons with indefinite contracts when the employment relationship is extinguished. It therefore demands that Spanish courts recognise compensation to temporary workers equivalent to that established for dismissal for objective causes: i.e., 20 days a year of service. Without a doubt, September 14th was a great day for work rights in our country. He had to make it a European Union court. But that was a good day, because those judgments disqualify in every rule much of the Spanish labour standard, pointing out, in view of all Europe, the labour discrimination suffered by people with temporary contracts and the use and abuse by public administrations of temporary employment. They are judgments of thanks that make the reform of the basic standard of Spanish labour law inevitable: the Staff Regulations of Workers. And they have to do it to cut down on working precariousness as usual practice in both public administrations and private companies. These are judgments that mark a path, that of the necessary counter-reform of work to pave the way for the deregulation and precariousness that began to apply in this state since 1984. They don't know, but I'll tell them. Since then, 52 labour reforms have been carried out in Spain. Nothing has been reformed more in this state than the labour market; nothing! But all the reforms were in the same direction: reducing the workers' rights to combat supposed rigidity in the labour market. With the argument of flexibility, the loss and dismissal was facilitated, precarious recruitment was generalized and collective bargaining unregulated. We have been on the path of deregulation and precariousness for thirty-two years, 52 labour reforms, and there we are: the state with the highest level of unemployment and the highest level of precariousness throughout Europe. Since there is no branch adviser, I will ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party. Do you know how many contracts were registered at the Public Employment Service offices in Galicia in the last ten years, in the years of the crisis? Do you know how many songs? Half a million? One million? Three million? Five million? No, 7,615,771 employment contracts. And some people still talk about there's no working flexibility in this country. Me too. There's no flexibility, which is extreme precarious work. Almost eight million contracts when we have a hired population of 800,000 people on average. And when, within these 800,000, it's 200,000 who have a temporary contract. I'm done. They comply with the judgments of the high European court, these are also rules, such as those of the Troika for fiscal consolidation. Part of this directly affects the Galician Union: it has to end the abuse of temporary recruitment in the public sector. That is their immediate responsibility: to negotiate with the legal representation of workers a new model of recruitment in accordance with the judgments of the European Court. But we have to go further, so we amend, even if we support, the non-law proposition that the Socialist Party was defending. There's no choice. We have to change the Spanish labour law, and for that we have to derogate the last two labour reforms. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u71	The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the word Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Certainly, the European Court of Justice, in a recent judgment of those who have already spoken before me in the use of the word, equates compensation for the termination of temporary contracts with indefinite contracts. For the impact that I have on the emergence of this ruling in the field of labour relations has led the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, to the creation of a group of experts who, as you well know, are analysing the scope and implications of the previous ruling, especially as far as their treatment is concerned. Now, ladies and gentlemen, you also know that your court ruling has legal effects essentially on the specific cases in question, and it is not extrapolable to the rest of the workers. And as Mr Díaz has well said, in our Autonomous Community, there is no mention, for lack of regulatory competence, of a specific legislation governing this matter, therefore, directly applying the Staff Regulations of Workers, which in Article 49.1(c) states that the termination of an interim contract does not entail the grant of any compensation. Moreover, there are no judgments of the Supreme Court on this matter, and given that Community directives are not directly applicable, any action by the Administration involving the grant of compensation for the termination of a temporary employment contract must be given by the amendment of the Staff Regulations, which is the basic legislation, of exclusive competence of the State. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must be scrupulous in the fulfilment of the existing legislation, respect the powers which the State has conferred on it and, since the Autonomous Community, regulate those aspects on which we have regulatory competence; that is, the regulation itself which develops the State basic legislation on employees. Therefore, we cannot support your proposal to urge the Government of Greece to balance compensation for the completion of temporary labour contracts with indefinite contracts. You yourself, Mr Díaz, in the operative part of your proposal, clearly say that the competence to negotiate and debate the necessary adaptation of our labor legislation to the application of this new judicial doctrine in the area of compensation for the completion of labour contracts is the State. That is why in the People's Group, aware of the importance of this issue — especially the number of people who may be affected in the area of the Autonomous Community — we have tabled an amendment for the Government of Greece to carry out the necessary actions before the Central Government in order to ensure legal security and to strengthen the stability of workers; and for the group of experts designated for this purpose, as you know, to study, as soon as possible, the sentence and its scope, so as to enable it to be complied with in the framework of the dialogue already open to social actors. A dialogue, on the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, that you already know is being addressed in the different areas of the various councils of the Galician Union. Specifically — as the adviser here, and you, Mr Díaz, have also spoken on this subject — Sergas's Directorate-General for Human Resources has already met with the trade union organizations to address this matter, particularly on possible recruitment and on compensating claims. But it is also important to note that there is, so far, no European Union ruling to compensate for the cessation of statutory staff. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Sergas is fulfilling in this respect what is determined in the state basic legislation. You also spoke, Your Honor, of the replenishment rate. As you know, it's also a state competition, but despite that, the sensitivity of the German Government in that sense was also reflected when, in the plenary of the Commission on Human Resources of the National Health System, the Greek Health Administration advocated its disappearance. I conclude, Mr. President. There are a number of possible options to avoid discrimination in the European Union's Court of Justice judgment. We therefore believe that it is prudent to wait for the results of negotiations or meetings that are therefore taking place between the social agents and the Ministry of Labour, in the field of the State, as well as the conclusions reached by this group of experts designated for this purpose. We consider it appropriate that this is the case, that times be marked in this way, so we present this amendment which we believe has no obstacle to being accepted by the Socialist Group. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u73	For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the word Montserrat Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u74	Thank you, President. Indeed, we are faced with an issue of relevance, because of the consequences that this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union may have, which has just acknowledged that Spanish legislation lacks effective remedies to combat fraud and the fraudulent use of precarious contracts and appointments, mainly in the field of public administrations. Clearly, the BNG has repeatedly denounced in this House the precariousness and action against the rights of workers and workers on the part of the Galician Union. In fact, the skills in the field of work are the competences of the Government of Madrid in an important part, also because the German Government does not want to demand or have competences, Mrs. Paula Prado. Of course! No, no, I'm saying that because you come here today like this, in a compound plan, of... of course, we have no competence! kicked up... and then we're here to what Madrid says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Still what Madrid says. Yes, we're here to what Madrid says because we have no competence. And, of course, in case of doubt, why are we going to be proactive and defend the interests of the workers and workers of the Greek public administrations? No, we're not going to be proactive, it's not gonna be that we're going to get side by side with the workers. We here with our arms crossed, waiting for Madrid to decide. So, I have to manifest, in the name of the BNG, our concern. It is not a matter of concern to the Court of Justice of the European Union, but of the fact that there must be a judgment of these characteristics in order to ensure that they are not acting properly. Because the Court of Justice of the European Union has manifested itself in several matters, but in two relevant matters. On the one hand, in the difference between dealing with public workers depending on whether the contract they have is indefinite or interim, and establishes that this cannot be so. But the Court of Justice of the European Union has also pronounced itself on the succession of temporary contracts to cover structural markets, and determines that this practice violates European legislation. And that's where he's got the skills of the German Government, then he's got the powers of Sergas. There we have denounced here, by active and passive, that they were abusing this figure and that they were prepricing what public procurement is, essentially in the Health Council; i.e., they have no excuse to be able to act. For these judgments are now ratifying the complaints and requests for correction of the labour policy of the People's Party, which is carrying out by the Nationalist Galego bloc in this House. We have repeatedly denounced the conduct of a staff policy that undermines and destroys jobs. We have denounced the systematic use of the replacement rate, which has resulted in the elimination of jobs in the Greek Public Administration through this practice. And we have also denounced the few calls from OPE, which means that there is systematic abuse of the temporary contract — whether interim or temporary — which makes public employment worse and worse. And with this, what is being violated is the right of workers and workers, but at the same time, what is being difficult to provide service, which is the second question arising from this practice. With which, we support this initiative. We are aware of the complexity of the application, but what we do not agree with is that by the Administration of the German Government or the Spanish Government it does not act, that it is the judges who ultimately decide what the employment relationship is. And it would be tremendous that we would come to the conclusion or that we would come to the fact that it was the judges who established the labor relations between the Administration and the public employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. As Mr Lago of En Marea said, on 14 September it was a special day in the field of labour relations, because it had to be the Court of Justice of the European Union, which told us how we had to work to change the employment policy situation, both from a normative point of view and from a point of view of management models, not only in the public sphere but, of course, also in private. As I said in an analysis of these judgments — because they are important to those that are coming to know — surely there will be a day before and a day after these judgments. In that sense, I wanted to thank you for the amendment you tabled in Marea. I think we could add to our proposal not by law a amendment in which we not only urge the Government of the Union, but we insist that the Council of Galicia in turn urge the Government of the State to make appropriate legal changes to labour regulations. In this respect, I believe, Mrs Prado, that in the amendment we could reach an agreement among all the groups, because we all agree that, indeed, basic labour legislation is the competence of the State, there is a committee of experts, not a process of technical collective bargaining to discuss this issue, but that does not prevent us from, on the other hand, having at least our committee of experts and working on this model of employment. I believe that, in this sense, on the part of the four groups we could achieve perfectly a non-law proposal in which, on the one hand, as I say, we urge the Government of the State to do what it must do when reviewing the Staff Regulations of Workers, but that the Greek Government, of course, not only in the Sergas field, but in the rest of the areas of the autonomous public sector, adopt the necessary measures not only to apply a regulation that cannot be applied until it is amended, but also to make clear what the new model of stable and quality public employment can be. In that sense, I believe that, as I said, the four groups can come to this non-law proposition agreement, and we will propose a drafting in that sense. That is why, as Mrs Montse Prado also said, Galicia is no less, and Galicia can be proactive in using a new European Union Court of Justice ruling to advance on new quality models, not only in public employment, but also in private employment. Nothing else on my part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u77	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. If they agree with that compromise proposal, they will get you to the vote tomorrow. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luis Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment regulation file at the People's Bank
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u78	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u79	Good afternoon to all and to all. I would like to greet the representatives of the workers of the Banco Popular-Pastor who accompany us today from the guest gallery. In September, the Popular-Pastor Bank presented a large-scale employment regulation file, affecting 20% of its staff, and also with the intention of immediate implementation, at all speed. The initial proposal was that this ERA had affected 2,894 workers and workers throughout the state, subsequently remaining in 2,592. This ERE, like Extel or similar, has a state scope, but where they have the most impact is in Galicia; that is, the ERE in Galicia represents 15% of the state workers, but it represents 23% of the staff in Galicia, with which we are talking not about a minor issue, we are talking about dimensions that should concern and occupy the Government of Galicia. It also points out that the healthier part is the Banco Pastor, based here in Galicia, and it turns out that it's the most affected by ERE. Yeah, what a coincidence! What a coincidence, the healthier part, and it turns out it's the most affected! This ERE is presented only five years after the Banco Pastor was acquired in 2011 by the Banco Popular. At that time, he had 4,100 workers and 5,088 offices in Galicia, representing around 18% of the Greek financial market. The integration of the Pastoral Bank into the People's Group led to the loss, at that time, of 800 jobs; 400 people working in the offices in the territorial field, and 400 others in the central services, which were dismantled, remaining anecdotal administrative units. I mean, apart from losing a job, besides losing offices, I also assumed loss of decision-making capacity, as central units have become in Madrid, ever further away from Galicia's scope of decision-making. The solution then assumed a real liquidation operation of a Greek financial entity of the most important in terms of turnover, number of employees and network of offices. Surprisingly, that operation received the support of the Government of Greece, in the hands of the People's Party, according to its performance not to exercise of the Government of Greece, but to exercise delegates from what they decide in Madrid or from what they decide about the areas of power, which are ultimately the ones they command. Well, now we've found that the People's Bank intends to give another stroke of grace to what was left of the past Pastor's structure and the network of offices that the Popular had in Galicia. They announce the dismissal, which has already been signed, of 390 employees and employees of a total of around 1,800 in Galicia — 1,756 — that is, of those who count today, about 1,300 who have the Pastor and 500 the Popular. This announcement means to minimize the structure of the bank in Galicia, it means the closure of a total of 42 offices and the partial closure of 25, mainly in rural areas, which will only open 1, 2 or 3 days a week, of the 226 existing at the moment. I mean, we're losing about 23 percent of the human and material media with which the bank counts in Galicia. In 2011, there were 4,100 employees and 588 offices. After this ERE is consumed in 2016, the entity will only have 1,360 employees in Galicia and 159 offices. In five years they lost at the Banco Popular-Pastor, Galicia, 2,734 jobs and 429 offices and the loss of decision-making centre, decision-making capacity. Conclusion: Galicia loses and wins the bank. Once again you win the bank, you lose Galicia again, you lose Galicia's job again, you lose the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks again. This ERA is qualified as unfair and unnecessary on the part of workers and workers, because even if the company presents the ERA under the excuse of economic causes, it is not supported. Clearly, the approved labour reform allows a company to present economic causes even if they do not exist, it allows it to falsify or "make" the results. And why don't they support themselves? First, because the group's results reports for the third quarter have yielded benefits, they leave benefits for the third quarter. Secondly, every time workers and workers have to systematically perform overtime continuously. This means that personnel are needed. Extra hours that in most cases don't charge, but that's already the subject of another question. That is, reports from the third trimester profit, workers and workers performing overtime, and there is another question that strongly calls us to the attention of the BNG, and that a few months ago the entity carried out an expansion of capital, supervised by the National Securities Market Commission, by the CNMV, and in the information advertising this capital expansion it was said that the bank's situation was fabulous, that the entity was the most efficient of the financial system, that everything was winding up, and this was ratified by the Committee on the Market Values. So what we're asking ourselves at the BNG is, how is it possible that a few months later it would give itself a totally different situation to that which it valued a capital extension? So what we're asking ourselves is if you lied to the bank when you carried out capital enlargement, or you're now lying about ERE data. One of them must be a lie. It's not possible that white and black are true at the same time. With which, it also leads us to ask what supervision is being done and also what customer profile the products are being placed to. This will be addressed at another time. If we are protecting citizenship from the possible placement of risk products with fraudulent information or without information, and of course we have had more than enough evidence, with preferences and others, of what practices are. Of course, at BNG we're waiting for these practices not to be reproduced, but that's another subject that we're going to address in another moment. What is evident is that the consequences of the consumption of this ERE of the Pastor-Popular will be tremendously negative to Galicia. First, that means the destruction of 390 direct jobs in Galicia, with the tremendous work situation we have. Second, by the direct involvement of the country, by the quality of life of the people, so it means closing offices. The disappearance of these offices, especially in small localities, means the disappearance of a basic service of proximity to the neighborhood. People who are forced to have to travel somewhere else, in most cases several or quite a few miles away, to do management how to collect the pension, how to collect payrolls, how to pay receipts, how to dispose of cash. It's really amazing that, when the law is forcing an obligation to have an open account for the population, it turns out that then you are not offered the service in order to perform the management. And then the People's Party comes here to fill their mouths by saying that they want Galicia to be the best place to have children, to develop life activity, and they propose actions to improve the demographic situation of our country, when we find ourselves in rural that the performances they do are this type of thing: to leave without any kind of service. Disappearance also means the disappearance of an indisputable local economy dynamisation agent, since it is supposed to have a nearby entity: credits to self-government, pemes and micropemes. In short, financial exclusion — and mainly in rural areas, although not only — and profitability above the service is what this question is all about. And the German Government, every time these kinds of issues arise, it's not even expected. That's why at the BNG we are presenting this initiative, demanded by workers and workers, which, on the one hand, demands that this Parliament stand in favour of its demands, and which urges the German Government, the Galician Union, to maintain an active position in front of the bank's management so that the workers and workers affected by this ERE... that this ERE be removed. I don't know if it's possible at this point, but I certainly don't know that the German Government had performed any performances. We also demand that it use all the mechanisms it possesses to curb this planned destruction of jobs and that, at the same time, it perform the necessary actions for the maintenance of banking offices throughout Galicia. It seems to us that these are minimal requests, we are talking about minimum requests that this Parliament must make to the Greek Government, in the face of the enormous size of this ERE and this claim to close offices. Pleased to have the support of the House's groups, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u80	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the word Noela Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u81	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The BNG initiative we are currently debating was registered on 3 November, exactly two days before an agreement was reached between the business party and the trade union party; exactly 85.96 % of the union representation of this entity at the state level and 59.8 % at the autonomous level. With which, Mrs. Prado, I'm sorry, but from the Socialist Group we believe that the mediation of the German Government is too late, which is what you propose in points 1 and 2 of your initiative. If what we are asked for is an assessment of the agreement, let me tell you that from the Socialist Group, as long as there is a single loss of one job, we will never value it satisfactorily, because we do not resign ourselves to the social drama, to the economic drama which it means to these people, to the layoffs, to their neighbours and to society as a whole, to unemployment. It's impossible for us, therefore. We don't know what contact it was with the German Government, or whether it kept them with the company or with the workers. What we do know is that the President of the Union has publicly, on several occasions, been deeply concerned about this subject. And of course, deeply concerned, I understand that we were all, but when you have government responsibilities, that concern has to manifest in facts, and you have to stand up for those hundreds of workers who were about to be fired. It could be considered, in any event, that the People's Party had come to defend the workers affected by an ERE, and more so when they were guilty of implementing a labour reform that would eliminate the procedure of acceptance by the relevant labour authority. That authorization that was necessary, and that, in a way, trade union organizations when they sit on negotiating an agreement. And that makes the compensation, since the entry into force of this labour reform, much less than the workers had before. The causes of ERE are multiple at the Pastor-Popular Bank, yes, and it's also a mismanagement. A mismanagement of a People's Bank that entered the real estate boom in 2004 and went into operation precisely with a plan that sought a profit of a billion euros. And if they got it, those managers got the millionaire bonds in exchange for the value, work and effort of workers from the People's Bank and the Pastor's Bank. Then came the explosion of the real estate bubble, and then these managers didn't learn the lesson and acquired the Banco Pastor, leaving this entity in an even worse situation. In short, the ERE of the Pastoral Bank, and not only this one, but also that of Viriato, that of Caramelo, those of many other companies that are being affected in recent months, are not only the consequence, in many cases, of mismanagement by the management of these companies; they are also the result of the economic crisis, and, of course, of a labour reform of the People's Party which has made it easier and easier, and which, of course, puts the workers and workers of this country literally at the feet of the horses. With regard to point 3, if we consider, Mrs Prado, that there may still be mediation by the Government of Greece. It is necessary that there is no such financial exclusion that it would be to deepen even more in that territorial imbalance that is suffering from our rural environment, partly also caused by policies on the right that have cut down all public services: in health personnel, in the closure of children's schools. And, of course, it's very difficult, it would be very complicated to use electronic banking in many of these small municipalities, because the population is of high age. Not to mention transport, that non-existent public transport that would have to lead them to other villages or other peoples doing banking operations. We therefore call for a point vote, more than anything to impact this situation on our rural environment, so that we not only favour settlements in rural areas, but to fix that population that is still on the market. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u82	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, José Manuel Lago Peñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u83	Good afternoon again. My group is going to vote in favour of the non-law proposal with registration number 669, which presents the BNG, among other reasons, because it coincides fundamentally with the non-law proposal with registration number 370, which we present on October 21, collecting the demands of the workers and workers of the People's and Pastor's Bank who have been — I don't know — at the door of this Parliament at its investment session. We are faced with a fact of enormous gravity, in which the silence of the Greek Government is incomprehensible and its discharge of responsibility is unacceptable. Because in these days, I believe, we have all attended with sadness, and some with indignation, the penultimate act of dismantling a financial entity that has been part of the history of this country for 240 years. The 2011 absorption of the Banco Pastor by the Banco Popular was a settlement operation of a financial entity that was at the heart of our country's economy. Surprisingly, she was greeted with efusivity by the German Government. The cost of this job operation was demolition. We lost 800 jobs in our country. A distribution of employment that has focused especially on the management structure and central services of Banco Pastor; which has ceased to be a financial entity to simply become a commercial brand of the Banco Popular. And now the People's Bank hits him another time, weakening his structure in Galicia to the end. He fires -- he's fired -- 435 workers in our country, out of the 1,756 he's had today. It closes 42 offices of the 226 you have, and many of those you keep will open one day or two days a week. That's supposed to lose 25% of the installed capacity of this financial entity. We are faced with a huge problem in terms of employment, because we are going to lose 435 jobs in Galicia, quality jobs, stable jobs, decent wages and work rights. We have a huge problem because the closure of offices is going to focus on the least developed areas, and that will aggravate the financial exclusion that has already suffered a considerable part of our country, which has a history of what happened with savings boxes. We are faced with a problem because the process of oligarchizing the financial sector is worsening, increasingly dominated by a very small number of entities, and that always means worse conditions of access to credit for both businesses and families. An oligopolie that exacerbates and deepens the risks of the financial sector, both by the enormous power that concentrates on three financial entities, which have the ability to condition government decisions, and by the risk that the size of financial entities would entail to the economy of a country. In view of all this, I am not able to understand the role of the Greek Government in this process. Not a word, not an act, as if nothing happened. And I had a few questions here that I'm going to ask the same thing, but, really, the attitude of the German Government on these issues contains graphically, because I'm going to ask a government that I hope you're at least watching intervention on television. Could you tell the German Government what you've done to avoid this situation? Did you have direct communication with the entity? Did you hear about the press problem? The dome of Banco Pastor made this decision without even talking to the Galician Union? Didn't you call anyone? No councilman from Galicia, nor his president, contacted the People's Bank and the Pastor's Bank? Did they try to do something to avoid it?, to ask for explanations?, to limit the effects? All that the Government of Galicia has done is what you're doing here today? Abstentionism? I can't escape the difficulty you have in dealing with the financial power, and even the real capacity of the Galician Union to modify the plans of the Pastor-Popular Bank. I can't escape. But still, it would be better to recognize here that you tried to succeed, that you did what you could. That would be better than to leave the terrible feeling for the country of lack of interest, of inaction, of the neglect of those who have the responsibility to rule this country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Lago. The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the word Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. First of all, I want to show all our solidarity with the families affected by the employment regulation file of the Banco Popular-Pastor, as with any family that sees endangering their income or jobs, because for the People's Party employment is a priority, and there is no better social welfare policy than having a job, and in this case maintaining jobs. Having said this, I mean that our position in this intervention will almost exclusively affect the field of work. We will not come to value the restructuring of the financial sector — I think it is not the time — neither its impact on the territory nor the buying operation of the Pastoral Bank for the People, because those who preceded me in the use of the word have already made some consideration, but I think it is neither the moment nor the place, nor do we have time to make a deep enough analysis to reach conclusions as quickly as someone did that preceded me in the use of the word. In this sense, we must express our rejection of this proposal by the Nationalist Block of Wales because today, ladies and gentlemen, there is already an agreement between the company and the representatives of the workers and workers who were signed — as you have said — on 5 November; an agreement that was signed by 86% of the union representatives, except the IGC and the CGT. Given that the whole process affecting employment regulation is complex because we are talking about people, it must be noted that, according to the media, this agreement sought mainly voluntary casualties in retired age workers, reaching an important percentage, exceeding 80%; another smaller percentage in compensated voluntary surpluses, and another small percentage also in major compensations with volunteer premiums and seniority. The number of people affected — as has been said here — at the state level is 2,592 people, and what initially in Galicia was 450 people, today the data is 364, not 390 as you said, Mrs Prado. But the most important thing, Mrs Prado, is that the 364 workers have asked for voluntary membership, they have all asked for voluntary membership, and I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must respect independence in the work of the social partners. Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Lago, but your union signed this ERE, your union signed this ERE. So... of course! It doesn't seem funny to me about what we're talking about, you can do a lot of grace; and I don't think it's funny to say that we have to respect independence in the social partners' activities, because I'm sure when you act as a social interlocutor, Mr. Lago, you wouldn't want to interfere with your work as a social interlocutor. [[Applause]] Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, I also remind you that the restructuring of employment in the banking sector is due, among other things, not only to reducing the margin of entities, but mainly to technology in the sector. Because I don't know, gentlemen, if you don't use ATMs, I don't know if you don't use electronic banking. But look, the use of automatic cash machines and the use of electronic banking are inversely proportional to the increase in jobs. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's a reality that we live in, it's a reality that the technification of the sector has an impact on the number of jobs. In addition, as you said when you spoke, there was a moment in the Spanish State, especially the Spanish banking sector, which accepted an excessive increase in the number of bank offices scattered throughout the country. Logically, that doesn't hold up today. But, Mrs. Prado, what is even more surprising is to hear you talk about job reform and precarious wages, when the Nationalist Block of Wales made an ERE in its party that affected more than 50% of its workers, it used the job reform that they so criticized... No, of course... 25 days, Mrs. Pontón, but 12 months, not 14; but 25 days and not 45. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it's just that their workers didn't seem to be just the conditions of their ERE either. You said they were very fair. I suppose Mrs. Prado wouldn't be in those negotiations when they also lowered their professional category to the workers who were still working and moved them from technicians to fourth-class administrators, with a 62% reduction in salary. I'm done, ladies. I wonder why the Galician Nationalist Block can do an ERE and the Pastor Bank can't. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u86	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prado. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Montserrat Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u87	A couple of questions. The first is that workers and workers know this, because this is the first time that this issue can be dealt with in this Parliament; it is the first time because it is the first plenary, and it is the first time. They lost golden opportunities when they were actually at Parliament's doors and didn't even listen to their positions or know what they had to say. No, no, no, they had nothing to say. And, of course, now comes the People's Party to show solidarity; from the saddle. [[Applause]] Solidarity? But did they fix something? Did they move a finger? That's what they're asked to do. Solidarity remains very beautiful, but what you want to be done, and on the part of the People's Party, the only fact is that they join the bank; they go away to promote legislative measures for their only glory, against workers and workers, they go away to promote labour reforms that allow an entity such as the Pastor-Popular Bank, with benefits, to do an ERE, and then they still have the theme of looking at their faces and telling them they're supportive of them. They should be a little stinky. But, well, let's just leave it there. I'm also very grateful that they ask for respect here for the union partners, when it goes in favour of their interests. Every time we bring here the problems of workers and workers don't respect the position of trade union intermediaries, no, not then, only when it goes in favour of the bank, big business and their interests. It is clear that this is the first plenary session, so in the BNG, of course, we deny that a subject of this entity — we are talking about almost 300 redundancies, of all the data I have given before — had passed without it being dealt with in this Parliament. Clearly, there is a signature by majority trade union organizations in the state, but not majority in Galicia. The majority organization of the entity in Galicia, which is the IGC, has not signed this ERE. There's still a part left to apply, because there's voluntary membership, and, well, I think we all know what's called volunteer. Volunteer is choosing between the bad and the worst. Do you think that someone can end their working life, their professional life, voluntarily choosing 75% of their salary, choosing 70% of their salary — 58—, 75% of their 59, 65% of their 55- and 57-year-old workers...? And we could keep looking at what the deal is. Do you really think anyone is willing to accept such an agreement? We know that there was, therefore, a very proactive campaign for people to welcome themselves, and because they know that, if they don't welcome themselves voluntarily, they're forced to welcome themselves, because, in addition, there's still the part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u88	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u89	... of voluntary accession to the territorial relocation process. Now it's: there are squares here, you voluntarily choose to move to Madrid, or where we've sent you, or, if not, more ERE; i.e., that there's still time, because there's part that's still not applied. So, what the BNG is asking is that this Parliament pronounces itself on this issue and asks the Greek Government to involve itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u90	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u91	...which is involved in defending jobs and which is involved in defending a minimum of financial stability for our country, which involves that financial exclusion is not strengthened in the brutal way that is being consolidated. And, of course, what we ask for is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u92	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u93	...—I have finished, Mr President—that this banking restructuring which is having such a bad result in particular for Galicia—much worse than for other parts of the state because, of course, the Madrid box had saved itself and the Greeks, no...... it would take more time or better voice to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u94	Mrs. Prado, stop.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u95	...can explain the subject. But what is outrageous is that a German government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in the face of such a dramatic situation as this, would not move a finger...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u96	Mrs. Prado, you've exceeded your time in this intervention. I'm begging you to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u97	...and if you allow the luxury of being smiling here what's a drama for thousands of Greeks and Greeks and for the workers of the Popular-Pastor entity. I deeply regret it, in the name of the BNG, but especially in the name of workers and workers, who are showing a lot of dignity by not signing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u98	Mrs. Prado, come to an end, which has been warned many times.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u99	...is ERE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u101	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the intentions of the Ferroatlantica company to sell the hydroelectric power stations of the rivers Xallas and Grande
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u102	Publication of the urgency initiative in the Official Bulletin of Parliament of Galicia No 10, dated 9 from 11 2016. This motion for a non-law tabled the following amendments: of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Fr Francisco Casal; of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms María Dolores Toja; and of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Noa Presas Bergantiños.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u103	Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Last October 26th, through a press release and after a meeting of the Ferroatlantic Business Committee, the company's management transferred its intention to sell its hydroelectric power stations, given the interest that other companies showed you for their purchase. This expressed intention would affect the plants located on the river Xallas and on the river Grande, whose concession is linked to the railway activities that the company develops on the Costa da Morte. There is still no firm proposal yet, there is no proposal on the table of the Galician Union, although there is nothing written or officially presented before the Government of Greece, today we present this initiative to deal with that uncertainty which has created only the rumor that this possibility can be true. And we are presenting this initiative because nobody has to explain to us the importance of Ferroatlantic activity to the area, not to the municipalities of Cee and Dumbria, where their activity is located, but to the entire Coast of Death. This company has been the economic engine of an area with a weak industrial fabric and has contributed for decades to the creation of jobs, better paid than the average of the other sectors of the same region, with the consequent ability to fix population, with the resulting ability to generate indirect economic activity throughout the environment. That's how we want it to be. But his relevance was further. The industrial activity of Cee and Dumbria has contributed decisively to the deployment of services and the improvement of infrastructures in the neighbouring populations. Economic development has produced a multiplier effect throughout the Costa da Morte, in the well-being of society, which is also necessary to manifest itself. This reality has been extended over time and today Ferroatlantic directly employs some 400 people in two municipalities, which, if we add up to their population, barely exceeds the 10,000 inhabitants. That's why, whatever changes may occur at the workplace of those companies, they would have a very serious impact and an immediate impact on the economy of that region. This same reality obliges us to address this issue with special sensitivity to the question of employment, to the workers who may be affected by the situation that is going through Ferroatlantics; the same ones who, concerned about their future, have been mobilising for weeks and the same ones that the Government is listening to, the Government and all parliamentary groups that make up the Parliament of Galicia. Workers and citizens of the region must feel that they are our main concern, that they are the concern of the institutions, and institutions must move them in three ways, in our modest opinion: First, by ensuring the legality of the performances and the movements of your company, ensuring maximum legal certainty. The Administration must be vigilant in any event that may involve action against the general interest in the activity of a concessionaire, as is the case with us. Secondly, by informing the workers — as we have already done, as the Government of Greece does — of the developments in the process announced by the company, but of the process that has not yet begun, because only being transparent can be calm in the light of the uncertainty that only the advertisement entails. The Government must maintain a fluid dialogue with workers' representatives and social agents in the area who may be affected. In that sense, they mark the meetings that have already been held by the Councillor for Economics and Industry and other members of the Greek Government, as well as the meetings of the various parliamentary groups. Thirdly, ensuring that both the company's activities and its competitiveness are guaranteed, so that neither jobs nor the conditions of employment are jeopardised. Any solution to this situation must go through the commitment to the workload, the viability of the company and the investments in the area. The commitment of the majority group to which I am speaking today in this rostrum around this issue is beyond doubt, because we took part in a similar vote in this very Galician Parliament a few months ago in the same direction as we are today. Ferroatlantic workers can be sure that both this group and I am sure that — with certainty — the German Government and I believe that the whole of this House is next to it, not to go out in the photo. It's not about going out in pictures, no, no, what it's about is actually ensuring that jobs and economic activity are maintained on the Death Coast. I think that's the priority. The photos are very good, but that doesn't give jobs. The photos are missing. The People's Group therefore proposes that Parliament adopt the following resolution. Our proposal, which we want to submit to the consideration of the whole of the groups that make up the House, is to urge the Council of Galicia to address three questions: firstly, to do the appropriate technical and legal studies on the announced proposal for the sale, made by Ferroatlantica, of the hydroelectric power stations that it owns on the river Xallas and Grande in relation to its compatibility with the conditionality existing in the administrative resolutions of ownership of these power stations. So what we're asking is that technical studies and legal studies be done and that legal security be guaranteed in any case. Secondly, to keep the workers of the Cee and Dumbria plants informed on time of the different events that are taking place in connection with this issue, bearing in mind that until today there is still no proposal made by the company on the table. Thirdly, all actions in this area will be aimed at safeguarding jobs, industrial activities, energy activities and the competitiveness of enterprises. We believe that today it is up to this House to deliver a message of tranquillity to the workers of Ferroatlantics, their families and the entire population of the Coast of Death. What it's all about is not making politics with a question that hasn't even been brought up by the issue yet. What we are talking about is making agreements about the possibility that is on the table, but being aware and knowing the responsibility that is around this House and the future of the Death Coast. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u105	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u106	Good afternoon. Puntualizo, Mr. Tellado, who is not a rumor, is a public information that Mr. Larrea recognizes at meetings with the company committee and at meetings with institutional offices as well, as you will find yourself. The first thing I want to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the People's Party, on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Block, is that, if you have any dignity left, you withdraw this proposal. Please withdraw this proposal so as not to take a step back, not to play with the life of an entire region, which once again has the sword of Damocles from the sale of the Xallas River power stations. We called for withdrawal, because since BNG, with all sincerity, we have looked with concern at his change of position, because, despite his rhetoric, Mr. Tellado, although he had repeated again and again Mr. Feijó at the beginning of this legislation which had the hand held for consensus and others, despite all that, in practice the text that you present is to break with the consensus that, indeed, had reached this House on February 18, 2016. Less than nine months have taken you to change your mind and to try to introduce a change in writing, which is far from reassuring the workers and workers, who are now closed and closed in the Cee Town Hall. Our initiative — which was approved in the Greek Parliament in February — was quite clear, and it stood against segregation. Your proposal opens a door to speculate with the Xallas River power plants, which is extremely serious. You are not happy that Ferroatlantica has already applied a model of absolutely neocolonial exploitation, that it drains our resources and that it devotes most of its profits to resources out—because few investments have been made in factories that it has installed on the Death Coast in these last twenty-five years, as you will well know— It's a proposal that opens a sale that would be death for Ferroatlantics, for those nearly 400 jobs and for all the jobs that are generated indirectly in that region; i.e., I would suppose to put a point and end to an entire region, because the impact would be extremely serious. You break with a consensus in this House, a political agreement that was born from a political and social consensus, also in other institutions, also in the Representative of the Crown recently, also in many councils on the Coast of Death; also, some of them, directed directly by the People's Party, so if that text applies to the municipalities that you govern, I wonder why it's not good for this House, why they want to go along the way for the change of speech, why they are now afraid to say openly not to the segregation of Ferroatlantics, of the hydroelectric power plants of industrial production, and why they're afraid to say no to the sale of hydroelectric power plants. What are you hiding, gentlemen of the People's Party? What have you talked to Mr. Villar Mir from behind? Because Mr. Villar Mir has to remember that he is a great friend of the People's Party, indeed, that is why he appears in the papers of Bárcenas, in the papers of Granados, so he financed up to the House Museum of Fraga, so he played even that fateful and ridiculous episode of our history as a country where a president of the Union inaugurated with Mr. Villar Mir a boil, that of Ezaro, who, precisely, saw his activity interrupted by the activity of Ferroatlantica, in which he was also, by course, with another colleague of the People's Party Lords Carlos del Alamo, that lord of the turning doors of Ence. Since the BNG we asked ourselves: why if under the light of reasoning there is no reason not to oppose the segregation of activities and not to oppose that sale, the People's Party is beginning to make these changes in speech? Why? And why if for Villar Mir in Aragon it is absolutely essential for his accounts to link the hydroelectric power plants of that geographic environment to the production of factories isn't it here? Won't Mr. Villar Mir want to do a speculative operation to have money to pay for his debts, with the complicity of the Galician Union, and thus move forward in a progressive reduction of work in these factories that end up assuming a complete practice of the end of activity? Isn't that why? So I wonder why we do not respect Parliament's agreement? Why do we not respect two judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia and the Supreme Court that support non-segregation? And why do we not respect the will of a people, the will of the workers who are at Cee, indeed, Mr. Tellado, waiting for dialogue, waiting for Mr. Feijó to go there to apologize to them and explain to them what he really knows? 'Cause he'll have called a mayor's meeting for next Friday for something, won't he? There's some information they still don't want to give us here, right? So, have a little courage, make me have to apologize in this House, actually become militants in Galicia and commit themselves to not selling power stations and speculation with a resource of all the Greeks and Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. For me too, it's an honor to be here for the first time. Good afternoon, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u109	Excuse me, it was my mistake, because first you have to talk about the Socialist Party. If you don't mind, excuse me. It's my mistake, I'm sorry. It's up to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u110	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. First, I want to show our support and our solidarity with the workers of Ferroatlantics, with the workers and workers, and above all with their families, because, of course, they're having a bad time. It's a tough situation, I'd say a distressing situation. [[Applause]] This initiative is presented by the People's Group, an initiative that tells us nothing, because it is ambiguous, and also by the way of urgency; an emergency that did not show to convene the meeting with the mayors of the Coast of Death, because this morning — precisely today morning, on the morning of the plenary morning — is when the mayors of the Coast of Death were called for a meeting on Friday at five o'clock. I also ask you if the workers and the workers will receive their legal representation. They're waiting in the Cee Town Hall, there, in a lock, just to be received. And he says it's because of the situation on the Death Coast, on our Death Coast, that he has an unemployment rate of about 20%. It's just that we're suffering from a real demographic indentation! Tell us about an important multiplier effect of services, and I'm telling you, no, that, on the contrary, we are suffering a significant reduction in public services as a result, precisely, of that demographic indentation. The company has the concession to exploit our resources, our natural resources, and has benefited from public concessions with commitment to maintaining employment and job creation; it has the declaration of public utility for the expropriation of land and for the construction and exploitation of the centrals of the rivers Xallas and Grande — expropriation of land of the neighbours and neighbours — and, in addition, it has the license to open the boil, which is a tourist element of our coast and our region, in the days and hours according to its erraticness. Already in 1992 the entire region was mobilized against this segregation, against the use of our resources for the production of our assets without fulfilling the investment promised in the region, in Cee and in Dumbria, because, if you committed those investments, where is that third furnace of the Dumbria factory? And in addition, in 2012, it turns out that it subscribed to a EUR 120 million lease, of which it only invested in the Coast of Death 6.6 million, a lease on the concessions of hydroelectric power plants. So, what's the situation? For the situation is clear: that since October we are experiencing a situation of uncertainty, a situation of distress, because the hydroelectric power plants depend on our resources, the region, the rivers, their coronations, while the production of railways can be carried out anywhere else in the territory, and a company of these characteristics where investments have not been made in the last twenty-five years cannot be competitive. So the viability of the company only goes through non-segregation, after the large public aid that you have received, for example, the expansion of the port of Brens, which was basically made to serve you, and because reality is nothing but the sale of hydraulic assets to then invest them elsewhere. For all this, by the territorial rebalancing itself, how will your territorial rebalancing be carried out?, how will you be able to live?, how will you be able to work?, how will you be able to invest in the Coast of Death? Tell us how they're going to do that, because the Death Coast is a very disadvantaged region with which the Union has long had a very large debt, because above all the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks must be far above the interests of the businessmen. We are not going to accept your initiative, logically, because we want a serious commitment, a rigorous commitment, with concrete measures, and not a statement of intentions. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u112	Bis, let's have a bis. Good afternoon. I repeat, I am proud to be here for the first time as a representative of the citizens and citizens of the Crown, which is my jurisdiction, and of all Galicia. The first one, to greet the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, who are currently locked in the Cee Town Hall in defense of their jobs and the future of the Coast of Death. Mobilization is important; social mobilization is essential to influence the majority of parliamentarians as well, and it is totally legitimate. And we want to make an initial point. The administrative authorization of Ferroatlantic plants, their transfer or transfer is exclusive competence of the Galician Union. You can't blame anyone here; it's the full responsibility of our government. Before the People's Party's proposal to conduct a legal and technical study on the possible compatibility of the sale of power stations with the condition of the granting of such power stations, we propose that they save the work. The work has already been done by the officials of the Galician Union, the lawyers of the Galician Union, in 1996; splendid work, by the way. If you read the judgement, both from the Supreme Court of Galicia and the Supreme Court, you can see the good work that has been done and the firmness and the absolute legal resolve of those judgments. I think there's no need for greater legal certainty than a Supreme Court ruling in Galicia. It is an enormously powerful judgment — I recommend you read it — from the Supreme Court. What else are you studying for? Any lawyer will take the opposite to two judgments of the most important courts in the Spanish State? And I don't think it's an excuse, because in my long career in many companies, in many places where I worked, it was always said, when you don't want to solve something, or if you set up a commission or do a study. I really hope that's not the case. They already have the work done, they already have the full legal guarantee and they have the entire study of opposition to segregation, and besides very, very well done, you can see and read it. Let's hope that the subject of a new study, of a new technical or legal study, is not an artimagina to open up the possibility of a new platoon by Mr. Villar Mir and put at risk the factories of Cee and Dumbria. I hope and trust you don't. But I recommend you forget about doing new technical or legal studies. And, by taking up Mr. Tellado's proposal of responsibility, as I hope that that responsibility implies that they really want to give a definitive solution to this problem, we invite them to support our amendments to their proposal, which are not amendments to En Marea, are the amendments by Cristina Guerrero, Santiago Paz, Pedro Pérez, Suso Casais and all the workers of Ferroatlantica. By accepting them, they will give no reason to En Marea, they will give reasons to the affected workers and the affected workers. And they come together in a very concise manner — as the clock advances!—, within their powers, Mr Counsel Counsel Counsellor, Mr President President of the Union — who is not, but but, of course, I am sure that it will happen in a very concise manner — to prevent and prevent the segregation of the production of electricity and railings by Ferro-Atlantic society; in their powers, Mr Counsel Counsellor, Mr President President of the Union — who is not, but is but, of course, I am sure that he will listen to me— in: to prevent and prevent the segregation of the production of electrical energy and ferroallages by Ferroatlantic society by Ferroatlantic society; to avoid and prevent the segregation of the Irono-Atlantician society; to avoid and prevent the segregation of energy production and iron and iron and iron and iron and iron and steel production by Ferroatlantic forces by Ferroatlantics at this moment, the Ferro- and Du Worldbria industries; to make up the clocks!! — within its powers, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr Counsel, Mr Counsel, Mr Counsel, Mr Counsel, Mr Counsel of the President President President President President, Mr Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsel Counsellor, Mr President President, Mr President, Mr President of Vice, Mr President of Vice, Mr President, Mr President of Vice, Mr President of the President of Junta, Mr President of Junta, Mr President, Mr President of Junta President of Vice President of the Vice President of Vice President of Vice President of the Vice, Mr President of the Vice, Mr President of Junta, Mr President of Junta, Mr President of Vice, Mr President of the Vice, Mr President of the Vice, Mr President of Vice President of Junta, Mr President of Junta, which Mr President of Junta, which Mr President of the Vice, which Mr President of Vice, which Mr President of Vice, which Mr President of Vice, which Mr President of Junta, which Mr President of the Vice, which Mr President of the Vice, which Mr President of the Vice, which Mr President, which Mr President, which Mr President of the President of the President of Vice, which Mr President of the Vice, which Mr President And finally, as you also asked, let us be perfectly informed, both of the local representation of the workers and this House, of the situation of ownership, so that we don't have to start really investigating who the power stations are from all the leases and all the clothing they've made on them. It must be clearly defined. This subject is not diffused.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u114	Here you have to define clearly: whether you are with the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics and the people of the Coast of Death or if you are with Mr. Villar Mir, there is no medium term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u115	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casal comes to innovate here in the German parliamentary system. What we're asked to do is to reject a hypothetical segregation that has not yet been requested by anyone and to be done without legal or technical reports. Let's go, you come here to propose that the Greek Government prevaric. I don't know if you, if you were a government, would act like this; we, of course, believe that the Greek people are wise, and that's why in the 25 September elections, what happened happened. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the elections are over, the polls are closed. There was a count and there was a result. I ask them to abandon electoralism, not use people's worries to promote things like what we've seen today. Look, you don't have the monopoly of people's representation. If there's anyone who's working for Ferroatlantic employees and all over the Death Coast, it's the German Government; that's our interest. [[Applause]] You ask for a radical rejection of a proposal that has not even been officially submitted by the company. You're responsible. That's what they do, that you reject a proposal that doesn't exist yet. And, look, the Administration talks with papers; you can't refuse a proposal that doesn't exist. That's the reality. We propose that we all adopt a firm agreement, a unanimous agreement, in defence of the interests of the workers of Ferroatlantics and in defence of employment. The basic premises? With regard to legality; ensuring the maintenance of all workplaces; and ensuring the maintenance of jobs and the quality of employment. No one has any doubt, the Galician Union will be watching at all times for the public interest and for the maintenance of employment in Cee and Dumbria. I don't know if you, with your attitude, are doing this or completely the opposite. The German Government has heard, heard and will listen to the workers and their representatives. But the only thing is that today Junta has not received any official request from the company in that direction, and that is an undeniable fact. It is surprising that the position of En Marea — I have to say — contradicts what they say here in Congress, because if you go to the Official Journal of the Courts today, you will see an initiative presented by the En Marea group, by Mrs Yolanda Díaz, who, in point 3, says: "Promoting state aid permitted by the European Union to modernize the Ferroatlantica factory, S.A., in Cee, in A Coruña, improving its effectiveness...". Public help! But who wants to benefit Mr. Villar Mir here? Who are you accusing of wanting to benefit Mr. Villar Mir? [[Laughter]] Are they coming here to say something and going to the Congress of Members to say otherwise? [[Applause]] Mr. Casal, update the argument, call 91... and whatever, and agree. Look, it's surprising because from En Marea they are in the usual speech: there are good companies and bad companies. It's the usual thing, we already know them. There's the bridge thermal power station, you want to close it. Reganious? We have to close it. Ence? [[Murmurs.]] We have to close it. Roses? Nothing at all, don't do anything. The enlargement of Citroën? It's against you, too. Mr. Casal, give me your opinion, that in Navantia there are crows for Saudi Arabia... your boss, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, is against it. Look, we defend employment in Galicia, the reindustrialisation of Galicia. And we'll always find them in the same place; you, here saying one thing and in Madrid asking for money for Mr. Villar Mir. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u117	The amendments. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] About the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u118	Yeah, about the amendments, it's clear that you're proposing something you can't do...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u119	You don't accept them, then?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u120	...which is a positioning on something that has not even been presented. We propose...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u121	Don't you accept them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u122	...to send a clear message to the workers of Ferroatlantics: that this Parliament defends employment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u123	You don't accept the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u124	...and the industry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u126	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-22-DSPG005.u127	Thank you. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
