ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-15-DSPG004.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning to all again. We started the session and for that I beg the secretary to read the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-15-DSPG004.u2	Thank you, President. "One point. Institutional declaration of the opening of the X legislation". Institutional declaration of opening of the X legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-15-DSPG004.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Good morning, everyone. President of the Council of Galicia, Councillors and Advisers, Signatories of the Government, Supreme Prosecutor of Galicia, former Presidents of the Parliament of Galicia — Signores Pérez Vidal and García Leira —, Valator of the People, Chief Account Officer, President of the Consultative Council, President of the Economic and Social Council, Director-General for Institutional and Parliamentary Relations, rectors of the universities of Santiago and the Crown, advisors and account advisors, former Members and former Members of the Parliament of Galicia, journalists, employees of the Parliament and invited, today, call the solemn opening session of the X legislative session of the Parliament of Galicia, a symbolic event marking the start of the ordinary work of the House for the next four years. He starts walking the tenth legislating with many new faces and a high female presence. Two realities that believe the necessary coexistence of experience and renewal, and also that progress in equality is a fact that is fully established in institutions. I would like to thank the President of the People's Parliamentary Group, his spokesman and his colleagues who have honored me with their support by re-elected me president of the first institution in Galicia. And I am also grateful, of course, for the vote of confidence — at least the interpreter — of the remaining members of this staged House with its blank vote. It remains to be reiterated that this is the greatest honor I could ever aspire to, and it remains to be insisted that I will seek to exercise the responsibility that has been entrusted to me by the height of my gaze and the impartiality that all and everyone expect and rightly demand from this presidency. I apologize, from now on, for the mistakes I will undoubtedly make, but be assured that they will be the fruit of my human condition, never of premeditation or animosity, which, of course, would be good to banish politics forever. We are not here to represent ourselves but all the Greeks and Greeks who have chosen us to represent Galicia for the next four years. We are surrounded by democracy, the Spanish Constitution and the 1981 Autonomy Statute, and we are inspired by the 36th Statute and the aspirations of self-government of the infinity of "generous" Greeks who worked to achieve that wing that we eventually were able to materialize. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with me that politics and politicians are going through a crisis of credibility, partly generated by ourselves. And they will also agree that we are obliged to offer the best of us to overcome it and regain the social trust that we have been wasting some time on this part. With a look at that common goal, this house has taken important steps on recent dates. The efforts to rationalize spending have turned Galician Parliament into one of the most efficient in the state, and of course into the most efficient of all historic communities. The efforts of Members and Members, the workers and workers of the parliamentary groups and the staff of this institution have again allowed the Galician Parliament to settle, at the end of the past legislation, in the most laborious of all the self-employed. A reality that will serve as a trigger for the mandate that now begins. It is also likely that the thousands of people who visit the Galician Parliament each year offer us a better picture than they had before they met the institution in the first person. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been invited to act as hosts and guides to how many Greeks and Greeks would like to visit us in good faith. I count, therefore, with all your lordships to carry out the necessary task of dignifying and improving the image of the institution, within and outside. And in the same way that we must strive to show what we are doing at our headquarters, we must also strengthen the social presence of Parliament, make ourselves present on the street, in companies, in agriculture and in the sea, in the association and cultural fabric, in teaching, as I think we are already doing with the cooperation of the Association of Former Members and Former Members. The greater the presence of the Galician Parliament, the better and more quality will be the work that we can develop from within ourselves in our debates and initiatives. Being with society is necessary, indispensable. It was in the past and it is still in our day. But that is not enough, no matter how much effort we have devoted to it, since the key to the success of any Member or Member's work lies in a fine combination of the presence of outsiders with his ability to move to institutions — either in the form of debate or initiative — the result of that dialogue. The institutional and personal respect, the ability to interact and the permanent willingness to understand with the adversary must overcome any other consideration, however firm the postulates of each one. As President of the House, I was especially pleased with the climate of its dialectical confrontation in this Chamber during the investment debate last week. An institutional normality that I solemnly demand for all legislation. Congratulations to all of you and to all your lords for making it possible. Congratulations that they are — I am sure — those of an immense majority of Galicians and Greeks who insist that rest, tenderness and the vocation of understanding take on a growing role in autonomous politics. The progress in transparency as far as it goes here, even in relation to the heritage and the incomes of its lordships, is a real will to respond to the growing demands of a constantly evolving society. Nor can there be a step back here, because institutional transparency is a path without return. The new opportunities for citizen participation in parliamentary activity made it possible to move from speeches to events for the first time, turning the Galician Parliament into a legislative pioneer by making available useful tools to people who complement and enrich a task traditionally reserved for Members and Members. In this line, and in collaboration with other prestigious institutions in our community, we will make it available to all citizens and in our language the established Greek standards. We will once again be pioneers with a novel tool on other bilingual communities. If we have been able to take the first steps, nothing prevents us from sinking in that direction and even in other areas still to explore, because — I insist — the will exists, as we have shown, and the possibility of doing so within the legal ordering agent as well. Parliament, democratic parliamentaryism, is currently going through a key moment, and those present are competing for the right benefit for the sake of the Galicians and the Greeks. We have lived a decisive stage in Europe, derived from the circumstances such as Brexit or the reconfiguration of the Community model; two facts which are in our mind. But I should mention some others who, as a whole, have led us to a crisis of a European construction project that now, more than ever, requires the support and participation of all, including the regional parliaments, insofar as they constitute the legislative power closest to the citizens. In the case of Galicia, this participation can be articulated through the work of this House at the Conference of Regional Assemblys of Europe (CALRE) or through the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the drafting of Community legislation through the Joint Commission of Congress and the Senate. We have also started a stage of enormous intensity in state policy, both by the political map out of the polls and by the reforms that will undoubtedly occupy the political agenda in the short and medium term. Matters such as autonomous financing or consolidation of the welfare state should be analysed and negotiated as a result, among other reasons, of the evolution of the Spanish population pyramid. A reality to which Galicia unfortunately is not alien. In the strictly autonomous area — as we have already pointed out — this House is obliged to implement and analyse the democratic impulse measures adopted in this Chamber in the past legislative process, with a special impact on two aspects: popular participation and transparency; without losing sight of the adoption of measures aimed at strengthening the economic recovery initiated, so that it remains sustainable and benefits the entire population, as well as the desired momentum of territorial cohesion. A hard job that awaits us, but those who talk to us hope that it can develop from a participatory and proximity perspective, that it bets on conciliation rather than the confrontation we've sometimes fallen unnecessarily. We are faced with new challenges and challenges, but also days of hope to leave behind the recent darkness and difficulties, which I hope they do not return. He said Castelao — one of the parents of the 36th Statute — that Galicia could be what it was and even more than it had been, but that everything depended on the will of its children. I solemnly ask here today, as President of this House, that we all come up with the will necessary to build together Galicia where we believe and for what we bet every day. We, ladies and gentlemen, are taking advantage of this tenth legislation of the Galician Parliament to deepen the true sense of democratic parliamentaryism, even experimenting, as I have just pointed out, with new formulas to bring to this House and to the various committees the true course of the street, of our towns and cities and of the places and villages scattered throughout the country. To legislate with rigour and imagination in response to people's needs is possible and, of course, it is obliged, as we have demonstrated year after year and how I hope we will continue to do in the near future. As I also hope that exemplaryness characterizes the behavior of the seventy-five people we have the high honor to represent the whole of the people from these seats. Let us make it clear that Parliament has been and will be the centre of democratic life. Let us make it clear that democracy is only viable as we practice parliamentary democracy. I speak of a common task which can and must always be carried out by the statutory and constitutional channels, of a Parliament working in and for the rule of law, subject to the legal procedures established and also aware of the obligations and limits laid down by the legal rules emanating from the parliamentary institution itself. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in a democracy, in a rule of law, there can and can be no shortcuts, and we also have to articulate alternatives without counting on Parliament is a dangerous drift that we cannot and must not afford. The problems of people have never been outside the debates of this Parliament. But now it's even more important to make sure that all matters of interest continue to be addressed between these four walls. And in the same way that discussions take place on social networks, and they are done with absolute legitimacy, we must strive to ensure that no matter is stolen from this serious and orderly debate at the headquarters of popular representation in democratic institutions. As a Democrat and as a Greek, I want to take this moment to transfer my solidarity and affection to Democrats in other countries, particularly in some of our cultural and emotional orbits, which often suffer the effects of the lack of freedom and all the penalties that it has associated with. We live and belong to a country that exhales capacities and creativity by all its pores. Let's take advantage of them and shape them in this House, too, since the legitimate discrepancy, to build among all a space with more and better opportunities, starting with girls and boys. So let's do this and explore that way instead of opting for crism and confrontation, which are empty. We have filled Parliament with ideas instead of filling it with tension. We are heirs of tradition and we must claim — at least so — the best of our history, even the idealism of our ancestors. The Galician Parliament will soon reach 35 years of life, three and a half decades of happiness since its first constitutive session held on December 19, 1981 in a loaned and far-off venue to awaken enthusiasm and trust among the people that day circulated through the streets of Santiago or from any other point in Galicia. So autonomy was an abstract, unknown and dubious entity useful to many. However, with the passing of time and the effort of infinity of people—almost always from anonymous work—the Galician self-government has succeeded in settling down, demonstrating its reason for being, to the point of becoming an irreplaceable pillar for the Greeks and the Greeks, who believe their real effectiveness in the day-to-day life. It is true that in our days, and with accumulated experience, a vast majority of Greeks and Greeks would neither conceive nor allow essential public services, such as education and health care, for example, to be managed from outside Galicia or by structures away from our reality and therefore unaware of our needs and our idiosyncrasy. We recognize the work of Members and Members who have served Galicia for thirty-five years from these seats, because I know that they have done so with real effort, which is born in the heart. Our remembrance and homage to all and to all, especially to those who have left us and to their families. One of the protagonists of that first constitutive session to which I have just mentioned, Ramón Piñeiro, an independent deputy in the first legislate of this House, defended the idea of impregnation of Galeguism spreading the entire parliamentary arc. And probably all this target has already been materialized in a large part. All of us today occupy some of the seventy-five seats in this hall of sessions would do well to reflect and internalize that wing of one of the heroes of Galicia, of the contemporary Galician, so as not to faint ever in the noble task of desire of Galeguism all that we do as members of this House and even outside it. By doing so, we will be honoring the memory of our ancestors, but also, and above all, responding to the confidence given by the Greeks and the Greeks who voted for us all and all here present, without distinction, on September 25th. The Europe of which we are part, today few leaders who transcend borders and overcome strife, continues to venerate the memory of one of the great personalities of the 20th century, Winston Churchill, incombustible in the fight against fascism and visionary regarding the dangers of later totalitarianism in the countries of the east. Churchill is given the famous phrase that indicates that the politician becomes a statesman when he starts thinking about the next generations and not the next elections. The best service any of us could provide to Galicia during this legislate is convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it would be to try to act as a statesman, not for their own benefit, but for the sake of the Greeks and the Greeks to-morrow. So be it. Thank you all very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I declare open to the X legislation of the Galician Parliament, and I invite all of you to stand and listen to and sing the German anthem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-15-DSPG004.u4	The session is up. Thank you.
