ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the seventh item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral answer by the President of the Council of Galicia. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the balance sheet of the general government policy in relation to the improvement of citizenship rights
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u2	Good morning. Mr. President, you know that today we want you to set aside your policy in relation to improving the rights of citizenship. But, above all, we're going to ask him to listen to these real stories that we're going to tell him and to respond to everything the Socialist Parlamen-tario Group asks him, without rounds and without hiding in disqualifications. Let's say her name was Mary. Their children had begun a procedure under the Dependency Act of 2006 - Socialist, by the way -. They had started in October 2008, but their government, theirs, Mr. Feijóo, had not resolved. That's why they filed a complaint to the Valator in 2013, and Valator made a recommendation to the Labour and Welfare Council, which went through everything. Finally, Maria died at the end of 2014 without recognizing her dependence and therefore without any help. What would you say to Mary's children, Mr. Núñez Feijóo? What would you say to the more than 16,000 people on the waiting list in Galicia, which is the autonomous community with larger waiting lists? Let's call it Javier, a child's child from nearly 280 students at Coirón-Dena College in Pontevedra, a construction of the year 69 without any relevant work. Javier plays on a flea-filled sand in the summer, eats in a dining room in a dining room that adapted so, provisionally, in the year 2009, it cools in winter because the sliding windows of the halls of the two modules let in the air still being closed and the heating doesn't work properly. What would you say to Javier's parents, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who are partners of the ANPA Seeder, and who have already presented these deficiencies to your Education Council and the head of the territorial education in a 2013 report? Let's call it Antonio. He is a mariner of the siege in Roundla, helped to mount the camp in front of San Caetano in October last year and finished it in January of this year. He spent the night and Christmas with his family. It was cold. Too bad they took blankets and food with their comrades! He had to take rounds for 24 hours every 3 days with 30 more companions. What would you say to Antonio, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if he asked why you brag about his majority? But wasn't it worth that most of the search, 80 percent, claimed the improvement of their quota rights? What would I have told you if you were worthy to go down to the lawn and visit the tents in those 90 days? We put her name Anna, a hepatitis C patient, who had to wait seven months for prescribed treatment by her doctors who never arrived. Ana died, Mr. President of the Board, and that's why there are two high-ranking charges you're charged with in the judgment number 3 of Santiago de Compostela's Instruction. What would you say to Ana's sons, Mr. Núñez Feijóo? How would you explain that your mother died while waiting for Sergas to unlock the treatment approved by doctors? And finally, Mr President. Let us put these and others, Maria, Javier, Antonio and Ana, to go to the courts of justice to defend their rights, violated by their policies, the policies of their government, and that they had to ask - they wanted - free legal assistance but they won 915 euros a month. You know what would happen to them? Well, they wouldn't have the right to freedom, because they would have exceeded 12,780 euros annually when it was 14,910.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u3	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u4	What would you say to them? What do they pay from their pocket their lawyer and their prosecutor? Or would you tell them to dismiss the possibility of defending their rights...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u6	...to the courts of justice? Can you give us a balance -- Mr. President, I'm finishing right now -- of your general policy on improving the rights of Galician citizenship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, what I'm telling you and what I'm going to tell the Greeks is that, despite living the greatest economic crisis that an autonomous community has faced, despite leaving you 2,000 million euros in the drawers -- that is, to pay -- and despite having about another 2,000 million euros less every year to manage the public services of the Greeks, I would tell you that today law, the rights of the Greeks, are better protected, essentially, Your Honor, because now we can pay them. Of course, I have only three minutes to answer it, but if I were to tell the Greeks and the Greeks some things. First of all, that the key to continuing to have good public services is employment. And so I'd tell the Greeks that when I arrived in the Government, 50,000 jobs were destroyed in the last year of their government and that we're now creating approximately 16,000 to 20,000 jobs more each year. Your Honor, I would say that there are more rights today, for example, in public health, because there is less waiting for surgical interventions, because now there is a right to the second opinion that there was not before, because now there is a right to the choice of specialist and hospital, which there was before, because now 70% of the Greeks have the right to have a new or reformed hospital, because now the Greeks have the right to the highest technology, and that is why we invest 80 million euros, and now all the Greeks have the right to electronic prescription and clinical history. [[Murmurs.]] And now, Your Honor, we also have more rights in education. For example, we are the Spanish community with more teachers per student; we have more dining places. And I'd tell that person you call Javier that we have nothing more and nothing less than 23% more school dining places, that we have 53% more vocational training squares, that we have the right in Galicia to have the lowest university rates in Spain, that we now have the right to study a third language -- more than 90,000 are doing it -- and that we also have the right to more technologies, which you didn't have. Your Honor, of course we have more rights: rights to higher squares in children's schools; we have the right, for example, for the first time in Galicia, to have a card for each baby born in 2016 and 2017, the reason for 100 euros a month; we have the right, ladies and gentlemen, to help reduce the day's work for parents and mothers who need it; we have the right to two weeks more fatherhood for mothers and parents who are parents; we have the right, Your Honor, to the greatest flexibility in working; we have the right to higher telework. Your Honor, I would say that when I arrived at the Government, the socialists paid 14,000 dependents. And despite having 2,000 million euros less each year, we're paying 41,000, and now we're committed to reaching 50,000. Your Honor, be right about these rights, you must be interested in them. You told me about 5, I'm talking to you about 30,000 more dependents. So, Your Honor, if we pay attention to the rights, we probably won't see the black Galicia you see; you probably can't see another color from your seat. Your Honor, we have more right to home care--a million hours more in these months--we have the right to the greatest aid which has never paid an autonomous community--this--in the income of social integration, we have the right to more housing, when some people are homeless, we have the right to better rental bonds. Your Honor, of course we have more rights, which I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u10	...surprisingly, you don't assume responsibility for cutting rights when you were ruling and trying among all of you to solve the cuts you've made. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u12	Thank you. Thank you, President. Mr. President of the Council of Galicia, you know that in dictatorships there are also rights, constitutions and fundamental norms; the question is that they are fundamental rules of pure paper, rights are not effective. The important thing is not to have any more, the important thing is that we have, that we have already recognized them, by the way--you have not come to create any new rights, we have already recognized them before, basically because of the work of many people, who have died for us to have--... Those rights we already have, the important thing is that they are effective, Mr. President of the Board, that they really are. [[Applause]] These cases I spoke about before are not "Alicia/Galicia in the country of wonders," which is yours, they are real cases, it is the real life of people, of the Greek citizenship in Galicia, which you don't want to look at because, indeed, when it was the siege camp, Mr. President of the Union, you were in San Caetano, but you didn't dare go down and talk to them. That's the reality. You don't know her because you'd rather put a band in front of your eyes and don't look, just like now you don't even look at me when I'm talking to her. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, these four examples that I put to you are examples of people's real life, they are a consequence of their policies, they are a consequence that you don't believe in social services, you don't believe in public services, and that's why jobs in Galicia are precarious and there are 33.24 contracts of a temporary nature. That's not right to work, that's right to garbage work, which is what you can create. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, there's something important, and you can't return the effort that many citizens have made in Galicia. Nobody's going to return the job you lost, nobody's going to return the trade you had to close, nobody's going to pay the taxes you've been paid for, the housing you've thrown away, the time you've had to be waiting on a waiting list to be operated, the films you couldn't see because the president of the Government on vacations, his president, Mariano Rajoy, decided to go up the IVE, the drugs you paid, paid for, paid and paid, or the fees you had to pay to go to court. There's no way to return the effort. And we, you and I, will not be able to return the effort. We don't want to return the effort, what we want is governments that create public policies and work to make citizens' lives better. Of course, there are not those governments on that bench, but they're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up. Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u14	Look, Your Honor, the difference between a dictatorship and a democratic government is that I will never be in a government that doesn't win the elections, never. And, therefore, that you speak of dictatorships... should be a little more moderate, Your Honor. [[Applause]] No, I spoke of Galicia, indeed, and when you tell me about the cases, I tell you about the Greeks and the Greeks for whom I work. And when there are 12,000 more people affiliated with Social Security today, and when there is less unemployment today than when I took possession as president of the board, I think that this is worth a reflection, Your Honor. And when I tell you that in Galicia - few autonomous communities in Spain can tell - 70% of the Greeks and the Greeks have a new hospital, a reformed hospital, you should take note, because when you were, no new hospitals or reformed hospitals. Look, Your Honor, when I repeat to you that we increase 23% more school breakfast squares, I tell you this is Galicia. When I repeat that they are the most accessible university rates in Spain--for eight consecutive years we frozen university rates--you probably don't care about the matter, but to families, yes; to families, yes, Your Honor, because they save by PP legislation 100 million euros on the university fees of your children. When I talk to him about Galicia and tell him that we now have more squares in children's schools than the optimal ratio of the European Union, he talks about the efforts of the Greeks. When I tell you that for the first time we have a card -- welcome -- for babies who are born in Galicia, I'm talking to you about the Greeks and the Greeks who are parents and mothers. Your Honor, when I tell you that when you got to the Government there were 14,000 dependents and now you're charging 42,000, I'm not talking to you about memory, Your Honor, I'm talking to you on behalf of those 30,000 people who are sensing the Dependency Law and who with you and 2,000 million euros no longer perceived it. Your Honor, I'm talking to you about Galicia, actually. When I tell you that in Galicia we have in recent years 140% more squares in day centers, that is, 1,700 more Greeks, when we have 1,300 more higher squares in residences and when I tell you that we have nothing more and nothing less than 17% more disability squares, do you think this is a minor issue in the middle of economic crisis? When I tell you, Your Honor, that Galicia is the autonomous community that has invested most in the last year, for example, in 2015, according to data from the Ministry of Business... Your Honor, you tell me about free justice. When I tell him there are 3,000 more free people in Galicia than when you were ruling, would you think that little? When I tell you, moreover, that we paid the debts of free justice that you were keeping in the previous government, would you think little of the proposal, Your Honor? [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, speaking of rights, I believe that the Spaniards, who had six months of blockade in the institutions and in the Government of Spain, have the right to have a government, because democratic governments are the ones who can be exempted from the extension and fulfilment of constitutional rights. So, Your Honor, deny a government, after the second elections, continuously, where a political force not only wins, but increases...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u16	...the number of Members and the number of voters against the Socialist Party, which decreases in each electoral dispute the voters and the seats, is that about rights?...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u17	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u18	I understand, Your Honor, your right to the Pataleo; I understand, Your Honor. I understand the right to Patal for their election results, but it should not be the right of the Socialist Party to the right of citizens to have a democratic government. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the opinion of the Government of Greece on the direction that is following Galicia in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, we see that you haven't changed and indeed you have been repeating yourself in recent times, and even today, the mantra that we are much better at Galicia and that with you things are going in the right direction; something that we see especially in the public media of our country and on that news; in these public media, Mr. Feijóo, that we are paying with the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, and where, of course, we cannot hear the statements of that conspirator minister, but we can hear every day as you tell us how long you are of wonder and that the Galicians, according to you, have no problem. Well, let me tell you a part of that reality about that Galician problem that you ignore or you don't want to see. We are talking about that in our country, last year, Mr Feijóo, with you as president, poverty has increased by 25%; there are more than 700,000 people at risk of social exclusion. But we see that you don't call it a problem, nor do you care, nor do you care, Mr. Feijó. But today we also want to talk about other dramas that the Greeks and the Greeks have, about the problems that the people who live in this country, which you also seem to ignore, as is the problem of emigration. I want to speak to you, Mr. Feijóo, of those Greeks and Greeks who have to put their dreams in a suitcase, their aspirations, and who have to return to the same path as their grandparents and their parents have made. Because, look, propaganda isn't creating work or creating work, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, because you're making it a wet paper. And, look, I wanted to tell you about the data I'm from the State Employment Public Service, I imagine you won't disqualify them. So that data tells us that last year they left Galicia, looking for work, 50,000 people, and most of them are under 35 years of age. So to youth, the future you're giving you is to pick up your suitcase again and leave. I know you're going to tell me that there are 27,000 people who have also come to work in our country, but this leaves us a negative balance so that Galicia goes more people for labour reasons than it does; specifically, a negative balance of 22,500 employees less. I also have to tell you that this is the highest figure since the crisis began. Tell us, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, how, if in Galicia things are as good, as, if we're getting out of the crisis, we have the worst negative balance from this point of view, because it's really very hard to understand that if things were so good here, there weren't people coming to work and we had a positive balance. That would be the balance that would show us that in Galicia there is recovery, that there is really job creation and that there are generating opportunities. We ask you, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, is whether, in view of this reality, with the data that show how you have destroyed employment during your government, how you have to leave thousands of people in our country, you only once, one minute, you don't feel that you have failed, that you have failed them and that you have failed the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u22	Your Honor, allow me a little reflection. BNG is starting to get bad at reality, but lately it's not even interested in reality. Look, Your Honor, you actually bring here the 2015 Labour Mobility Report. And you, without reading that report, publicly say that 50,000 people have emigrated from Galicia. Very well, Your Honor. That report you haven't read, because there are three conclusions from that report. The first: it's not true that in 2015 they left Galicia 50,000 workers, because they're half. Second, the years in which there were more Greeks who went out were when you ruled. And third, Galicia is the second autonomous community with the lowest labour mobility in Spain. And I'm going to repeat those reports. Look, Your Honor, when you say 50,000 workers come out, you confuse contracts and contracts, nothing more and nothing less. In fact, there were 50,000 contracts, but the contracts were 26,000. And as 17,000 contracts entered, the difference is 9,000. Do you realize the nonsense, Your Honor, that you just said in this House solemnly? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But besides, Your Honor, when we see the years where the most Germans went out, let me read it: in 2007, hired, 70,000; contracts, i.e., workers outside, 40,884. And so every year of the Bipartite. In 2007, 40,800; in 2008, 42,400; in 2007, 41,900; in 2008, 35,000; and now 26,000. And the difference between the workers hired outside and those inside is 9,000, never 50,000, Your Honor. As a result, this year is the year where fewer Greek hired had to go out. Look, Your Honor, the second question: Galicia is the second community with the lowest mobility in Spain. In Galicia the 4.3, and in the rest of the autonomous communities, the double; Your Honor, the double! I mean, the Greeks went out to work less than half the Spaniards. Your Honor, exactly... [[Murmurs.]] No, if you don't mind, Your Honor, I'm reading the official statistics, but I have no drawback to read them again, if you can clarify them. Yes, Your Honor, read you. Don't confuse between contracts and contracts, Your Honor. Contracts can be many; contracts are different. So, Your Honor, I remind you: Galicia is the autonomous community where fewer workers went out in 2015. Less contracts are coming out today, less workers outside than when you were in government. Your Honor, when it comes to young people, the boys who went out in 2015 are the youngest in the series. So, Your Honor, the least you should do is either not to make a mistake or not to lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u23	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u24	It's the second time; first bring me a statistic from an unreadable cosmetic company and now bring me a statistic that confuses contracts. Your Honor, that's how we can't be serious. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, I know you think you're the only one who knows how to read, and you think the others have a flat encephalogram; I know that that's the respect you have for people who think differently. But I don't want to go in there because what I think is important, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, is that there are very serious problems in this country and we have a president who is trying to disqualify the truth by disqualifying the opposition. And, really, I'm not going to get you into your game, because it's a twisted game and it's no use to solve anything at all. Look, this is a newspaper headline, clearly saying, "The escape of the Greek workers is accentuated by the march of 50,000 and only 27,000 come. Labour and geographic mobility in Galicia is worsening." And this is taken from this report, and also, even though it seems incredible to you, we know how to read and we have the ability to do it. I know you don't respect us, but it's your style, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Of course, not mine, but everyone actually has the political level. In any case, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo--quietly--you should be a little more aware of reality. I know you're upset because the data spoils your propaganda, but it's just that we're worried about it that you're not happy about it, that people in this country have opportunities. And what's going on in Galicia is that since you rule there's no more work, Mr. Feijóo, thousands of people have left and we still have 135,000 people less busy. And this doesn't happen because the Galicians and the Greeks want to know the world and languages -- that there are those who have them and we look good to us -- this is happening because you with your policies are destroying the productive base of this country: the agriculture, the employment, the naval, without alternatives to these sectors, Mr. Feijóo, and with a political myopia concerning R & D+i that is no more than your responsibility. Look, ever since you've been in government, our country's innovation spending has dropped. In particular, we are on the verge of spending all over the Spanish state and across Europe. The year 2008 was spent on Galicia 211.7 euros/per capita in innovation. You leave us in inheritance 174.2. And what does that mean? Well, it means, Mr. Feijóo Nuñez, that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u28	...and their magnificent policies destroyed half of the companies that were considered technologically innovative. These are the realities that leave us. And indeed, when there's no country project, when you're just worried about what your image is and you don't care what happens to the Greeks and the Greeks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u30	...pass this. Because, indeed, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, in Galicia things, although you don't like to hear it, they're not good for a large majority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u32	...because there's more unemployment, there's more poverty and there's more inequality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u33	Your time is up, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u34	That's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u36	...this is your inheritance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u37	Thank you. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u38	Look, Your Honor, in the first intervention your main thesis was dismantled, and, far from apologizing or admitting the mistake, you go on and say you read a newspaper headline. What's wrong is that, in addition to reading newspaper headlines, you have to read the papers, Your Honor. And, reading headlines, we can only take the initiative to read a document. When there's a negative headline, the first thing I do is read that document completely, Your Honor. You know why? To try to improve my country. You make the headline and you don't even care about the reality or the document, Your Honor. And that's why I repeat to you: during the Bipartite years more workers with more contracts outside and now fewer workers with fewer contracts outside, Your Honor. And during the Bipartite years, jobs will be destroyed and now we're growing up in jobs. Now we have, Your Honor, more employment than when I went to the investment session in 2012; more employment and more members of Social Security. [[Applause]] Your Honor, in the last report... last week, Your Honor... look, let's not talk about headlines, last week the INE Residential Variation Statistics, Your Honor, "Galice is the autonomous community where they come out percent, based on the population, less young people outside." Second, "In 2007 it was the year where most young people went out." And third, Your Honor: "The migration balance accumulated from 2009 to now is positive for Galicia." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I repeat, as there are economists who won't let us talk to you and me, I tell you that the migration balance between those who went out and those who entered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u39	Quiet, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u40	...it's positive; those who came in front of those who went out throughout the economic recession. Your Honor, 12,000 young people went out from 16 to 34 years. That represents 2,2 % of the young people we have; in Spain, 3,3 %. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, here I have this data, I'm sure that you, who is a nationalist, should be interested in: we are the autonomous youth community between 18, 16 and 34 years old who have less left. It's not because we have fewer young people; of whom we have, it's the ones who have less left. I repeat three explanations so that the Socialist Party's benches, please let us answer the question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, in 2007 it was when more young people left Galicia, almost 14,000 during the entire Bipartite. Yes, Your Honor. And the accumulated migration balance, Your Honor, from 2009 to this year 2015, is favourable for Galicia in 17,500 people; 17,500 people is the positive balance of those who entered Galicia against those who left all these years. Your Honor, is it not worth reading the reports for a formal opinion? Look, Mrs. Pontón, the worst migration balance I repeat... No, Your Honor, I'm not saying they can't read. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happens is that you, when the document and the information don't match your vision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u41	Quiet, Mrs. Pontón, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u42	...they just don't accept it. The worst migration balance was Galicia during the years of the Bipartite. But, look, Your Honor, things have changed, fortunately. I found a Galician in the middle of economic recession, I found a Galician who destroyed 50,000 jobs in a year, I found a Galician who was in free fall in memberships of Social Security, and now we have a Galician that is growing more than ever, we have a Galician--yes, Your Honor, do you think little growth? - that during all the last eight years - and this year we're going to grow again - it grows above 2.8. Your Honor, Galicia is growing, Galicia is creating jobs. It's true that we still have a lot of unemployment bags...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u44	...and we have a lot of poverty bags. I remind you: today we have less poverty than when I arrived in the government. But, Your Honor, you go back to 2016, update. Galicia is advancing with BNG, without BNG or despite BNG. And that's why I ask them to update, Your Honor. You will continue to advance Galicia with BNG or without BNG. To me, of course, I'd like BNG to bring something. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of Alternative Galga de Lefta, on the reasons for criticism of doctors in the public health system who denounced the delay in dispensation of medicines against hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u46	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. After answering the voicemails, I repeat that you're more of a mind than you're talking about. It's possible to say that today there's more work than you did when you arrived, and you just have to go to the IGE and see that since you arrived there are 135,000 less busy. You lie more than you speak. I'm not going to rectify all the lies you told there. You've destroyed twice as much employment as the state average, you've destroyed more GDP than the state average, you've been a crack for this country. In addition to the crisis, we had an aggravating one: that we had it with you in the period of the crisis, Mr Feijóo. It's more of a mind that speaks and is unworthy of being President of Galicia, and it's unworthy of being President of Galicia for things like those we're going to talk about... - calm down, for things we're going to talk about. [[Murmurs.]] You have again shown the true face, that of sovereignty. It was allowed to criticize doctors who denounced the delay in dispensation of hepatitis C medicines; doctors who were doing their duty, defending people's lives. You, in a radio station, have shut down your accusations of slander and deception. Those statements, Mr Feijóo, are absolutely unacceptable. As much as you insist, I do not accept that they are normal in a democratic president, they are unacceptable. I say it again because not long ago you also said that "you can't talk about cutting deaths by the three patients." Mr Feijóo, then what is the right number of deaths from which one can start talking about political responsibilities? Do you dare to give a number of deaths, Mr. Feijóo, preventable and admissible? Besides, from his powerful position, he's attacking a public worker, in a [...]'s own attitude. He only told a truth in the statements... - Yes, yes, of a... -... [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] You told a truth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u47	Mr. Sánchez, that expression is withdrawn and has the result of a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u48	You told a truth... Own of a [...], I didn't say it was a [...]; own of a [...]...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u49	Second call to order, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u50	Call me whatever you want in order. I'm trying to use a word from the dictionary that defines the attitude of the president of the board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u51	If I ever say that word again... No, don't provoke me, I told you that word...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u52	...when from his position of power he secretly threatens a public professional...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u53	No, don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u54	You tell me, look up the dictionary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u55	That word is not accepted. She's rejected. Don't address me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u56	I said: own of a [...]...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u57	I am moderated in this debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u58	I'm trying to find a word...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u59	Sorry, those two words have been removed with two calls to order; therefore, you have the warning that if you come back... - no, time will be compensated--saying that word, I see myself in the obligation to expel it, and I don't want, and I don't want... silence, don't get yourself into this, that doesn't go with you. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u60	Well, let's say he abused his position of power to secretly threaten professionals who did their ethical, professional and even legal duty. You told the truth, he said, "Doctors receive treatment, not the president of the board or the health advisor." Right, the doctors prescribed the drugs and the president of the board and the advisor, no. What they were doing was preventing treatment from reaching patients who needed it. Mr. Feijóo, did you tell me: what is critical of the actions of these doctors? Tell me, what's critical? If there were cases in which these doctors, their patients, had to wait up to eight months for treatment, would it be wrong to have these facts brought to the attention of the Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Feijóo? What would you have done? Eight months, because you were talking about reading the reports. Did you read the prosecutor's complaint? Because the prosecution's complaint is not a medical complaint, Mr. Feijóo. Are you questioning justice in this case too, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u61	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u62	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u63	One minute too long. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u64	What is critical in the attitude of these professionals? Because I think we have a very different scale of values, Mr. Feijóo. You consider the attitude of these censored doctors and I think it was exemplary. Only the struggle of these public health professionals, who truly defend public health and that of the patients and that of the Hepatitis C Platform, have achieved something as simple as what you were trying to say the other day...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u65	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u66	...that if a specialist prescribed a drug this should immediately reach a patient and not wait five, six, seven or eight months, Mr. Feijóo. And that was achieved in spite of you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u67	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez, your time is up. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, that moral trim of what you do every time you have a chance to speak perfectly. You too, Your Honor!, follow you like this, keep you prospering like this and follow you with that shave and with that way of making politics. The Greeks are getting to know him more and more and more and more, therefore, the Greeks have more and more arguments to know who he is. Look, Your Honor, there are 220,000 unemployed in Galicia. Today there is less unemployment than in 2014, than in 2013, than in 2012, than in 2010, than in 2011. It doesn't matter, Your Honor, you dedicate yourself to something else. Look, a person's life has no price, that's what I said six months ago when you told me. And linking a person's life to money is something morally unacceptable, and therefore, Your Honor, I honour to support the professionals of the Galician Health Service, who are excellent professionals, both in Galicia and outside Galicia. And the Galego Health Service gave more treatments to more patients and diagnosed more hepatitis C than the average of the rest of Spain's health services. That's what I said when you told me and asked me in April, and that's what I say again in a clear and repeated way. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, ever since you asked me that question, more patients have been treated in Galicia. You still lie in wait, Your Honor. Look, I know the radio's got everything on it. Among other things, I'm wondering if people died for the cuts of my government. Of course I would answer again as I answered, in respect of that moral trap in which you fall by linking money to life. I understand, Your Honor, that there are politicians, journalists or doctors trying to extend a false idea of the functioning of public health. That politicians do it in a House is despicable, and that's why they repeat it is doublely des reprehensible. That's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u70	...signor, your moral sanctuaries will be reflected in the Journal of Sessions for the second time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u71	Quiet, please. Look, Your Honor, who prescribes drugs are the doctors, and in the same way as doctors are those who are in the Growth Hormone Commission, or those who are linked in the Commission linked to multiple sclerosis, or in the Oncology Commission or in the Hematology Commission, they are the doctors who are in the Hepatitis C Commission; they are the ones who make the proposals and the ones who review them. And that's why, Your Honor, 99% of the patients who got to that commission had these drugs. And do you know why they didn't have the remaining 1 %? Because these doctors had to watch out for the contradictions in the initial drugs of hepatitis C, among other things, because an inappropriate combination of drugs can produce debilitating effects on the health of a patient who already has cirrhosis in different degrees. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u72	Mrs. Hide, call to order. It's the second. Please, it's always interrupting you. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u73	...if you were interested in this matter, you would let the judge act, and that's why the judge first did it was to act and not accept the prosecutor's proposal where he tried to accuse doctors of murder. Look, Your Honor, talking about money when it turns out we're investing in hepatitis C 130 million euros is the same thing you spend on making a new comarcal hospital, the same thing. Say Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u75	...we're stealing the treatment of hepatitis C for money. I can't admit it to you or anyone else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Replica shift. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u77	Yes, Mr. Feijóo, you are going to give me lessons of moral restraint!, the friend of Martial Dorado, Pachi Lucas, who keeps Baltar at his post after what happened--he accused him, accused the father--. You're going to give me morals lessons! You go on there, you're making a lot of progress too; you're making a lot of progress. He's always been in power, and that's a great quality of him. I didn't, I never got to power, I fight to change things. You've already changed your unemployment data. Sure, he had to change. You've destroyed twice as much employment as in the state media and then you say there's less unemployment now than in previous years. Then he had to change! Clearly, his arguments and his rigour were few, it is clear. Look, you'll say what you want from the action of the Galician Union, but it's the only public administration in the whole state that's in charge of this issue, Mr Feijóo, something would hurt! Have you read the complaint? have you read the case of David, who applied for treatment on 20 April and received it on 19 December, when he was already dead? Or have you read the other seven cases, Mr. Feijóo? And can't you have a little more respect for these people and their relatives? Can't you have some continence and humility when you're going to speak on the country's radios, Mr. Feijóo? Couldn't you have another less sovereign attitude? I believe that yes, and of course yes, let justice be done. But you, while you answer, be humble, apologize, and be tactful with the families of those who have died, Mr. Feijóo, which should make a president worthy of being President of Galicia. Yes, sir, 300 patients since we last spoke, of course. Since the National Plan against Hepatitis C was approved, things have started to work, Mr. Feijóo. The same platform ceased to mobilize itself, of course, because the only thing they were looking for was not spure interests, was that if a doctor prescribed this medicine he would arrive in time. Once they did, they stopped mobilizing themselves, because you're accusing people who were trying to save their lives, it was the only one. You did it was not to listen, because you have a completely sovereign attitude. For months, privately and not publicly, these people have asked for a solution to their problem. It's so serious! It was the difference between life and death, Mr. Feijó. You didn't listen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u79	Fifteen days before adopting that national plan that immediately facilitates medicines to the voting patients here voted against, and you didn't come that day, you didn't look again, Mr. Feijóo. That's your moral sanity, that moral sanity for which you are known. Excuse me, answer me, Mr Feijóo: what is critical of these professionals' complaints with public health?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u81	I'm done. Or is it that he also criticizes justice for prosecuting the Galician Union for this case? Are you questioning justice, too? Have you read the prosecution's complaint, Mr Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u82	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Sánchez, your time is up. Thank you. [[Applause]] Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, 4,200 patients have been treated since 2012. A subcommittee of experts with optionals, of all hospitals, of the best hospitals in Galicia, reviewed cases anonymously, without knowing the names and names of patients, without even knowing the hospital that sent them to them, and a national plan that implies that in one year twice as many treatments as in the previous one are given. Yes, Your Honor, because in previous years -- just like you do -- the drugs weren't allowed. Your Honor, do you want to listen? Drugs were not allowed, and there was a procedure to import drugs. Your Honor, like this, unfortunately, knows what you put on the paper, you need to study a little more about certain issues. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor - I repeat - we are proud that in the full economic crisis we have committed 130 million euros against hepatitis C. This is the same as doing about 60 health centers - I don't know if you listen, Your Honor - ; 130 million euros to advance against hepatitis C is the same as doing 60 health centers or a new hospital. Look, Your Honor, the number of treatments for 10,000 inhabitants in Galicia was 42 and in Spain, 29. Galicia is the autonomous community above the average of the rest of the health services. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, the average case in which the Commission ruled was 18 days. If the patients who had to be re-examined are excluded, they would stay in 13. You know one of the experts estimated that in one case of those you talk about the proposed treatment had a 44% mortality risk. Your Honor, I know you're not interested in this; you're not interested, Your Honor, because you don't come to politics to defend people's interests; no, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I don't have his pride because I know how hard it is to serve my people, and I don't have that pride because I spent nine years trying to improve the health of my country. And that's why, Your Honor, as I know that every day is a new challenge to do the best things, I will not admit that you criticize, oppose and humiliate our health service here, outside Galicia and the rest of Spain; I will not admit it, Your Honor, in any case. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, to give lessons on respect, the first thing is to be respectful. And you carry the legislation dequalifying, insulting, denigrating, dividing the Galician society, dividing our country. You've been doing this for four years. Actually, you don't care about power, you're interested in destroying institutions. But I think democratic institutions are the guarantee that just those who are not having a good time have rights, regardless of income. Look, Your Honor, I in this Parliament have heard of everything - of everything -. It was said here that doctors were high because the Galician Health Service paid them, and here they were printed leaflets in electoral campaigns where it was said to rule the People's Party would be charged for consultations, analysis and diagnostic evidence. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, the crane is yours, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u84	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u85	...that patients die because of lack of money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u87	It's unworthy, Your Honor. Indignant! I tell you clearly that I will continue to defend my country's public health because I will continue to defend my country. And, I tell you, I know perfectly well the interests behind it, I know, and that's why I repeat: when some doctors are doing liver transplants at 100,000 euros each transplant and then they say they're decreasing their money for hepatitis C is unworthy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u89	And that's why I reiterate to you: the vast majority of the health service staff consider this complaint to be outraged and they consider its political position unworthy. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u91	The following amendments were tabled to this motion: one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and the other from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative on the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u92	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It's a shame the president of the board is leaving right now! It's a shame when we're going to talk about the loss of employees' and public employees' rights. It's a shame you have to hear in this House, in the House where all the Welsh and Welsh people are represented, as if they lack respect for the Welsh public health doctors. What we just heard today is regrettable, what we just heard right now, of course, is a lack of respect for our public health and, of course, also for the professionals who exercise it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u94	Quiet, please. There's a lot of noise in the room.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u95	They don't think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u96	Quiet, please! Silence! There's a lot of noise in the room and there's a lot of trouble. Yes, he's addressed to all of us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u97	They don't think Mr. Feijóo and the Vice President of Galicia went away because they're not interested in the motion we're going to debate now on the recovery of the rights of employees and public employees, no, it was to continue working for Galicia--as they say--it was to continue dismantling the public services of this country in a silent manner. Meanwhile, they make headlines that say otherwise. That's why you have to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it takes a long time, a lot of work and a lot of effort. The debate that now begins could be said to be a continuation of what we had yesterday in this Chamber, that debate about a bill that the Government presented to return a part of the extraordinary payment of 2013; that extraordinary payment for what the courts told the Council of Galicia that it was illegal to steal from employees and public employees. A debate which has been restricted by the Government, again resorting to a processing mechanism that does not allow a debate to open at all points; a processing mechanism, that of the single reading procedure and the urgency procedure. The truth is, yesterday, when listening to the counsellor, as in the previous plenary session, to Mr. Tellado, anyone who had not met them and who had not seen everything they did during these years, who had not suffered their policies, I could even think that he was in a union assembly and that they were fierce unionists who fought around for the improvement of the living conditions of workers and public workers; thanking, yes, always, and valuing the effort of these people. Let's go, as if volunteers were offered to cut their rights off and as if, among other things, you hadn't put your hand in their pockets to steal them all these years from their wages. [[Murmurs.]] And before anyone comes... - Yes, Mr. Trenor - from the People's Party to tell this gallery that I have selective memory, as you usually tell me, today I'm going to say. [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, Mr. Zapatero cut 5 percent of the salary... - yes, yes, yes, yes, before you say so, thank you very much--in March of 2010; something you criticized at the time in the 2012 election pre-campaign, proclaiming -- with the Palestinian handkerchief included -- "the workers' party." [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Those were you. [[Applause]] But I remember another president, too. I remember a president who was able to pass a law so that people of the same genre could marry. I remember a president who was able not only to sign that role but to allow and put all the mechanisms necessary for people to love themselves in freedom without having to hide; something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, opposed at the time. I remember a law against macho violence that was a pioneer and is a reference in Europe. I remember a law of dependence - from which today it seemed that the president of the board intended to take over - that dignified the work of those - and especially those, because most caregivers are women - that raise the sick from the beds, clean them and feed them. So there's a lot that the socialists feel tremendously proud about, a lot of what they might have copied. [[Murmurs.]] But you decided to just copy that timely measure, that temporary measure, with which you felt ideologically more comfortable. Because you liked that measure, and they decided, instead of scoring, at the hardest moment of the economic crisis, to make it normal. It was a great opportunity for you to do what you always believed in, dismantle public services, hitting on the backbone of them, the workers and the public workers. That's precisely why, because you liked to cut rights and we don't like anything, we present this motion as a result of the interpellation that was put forward in the previous plenary, which consists of several points. First of all, with regard to the call for public employment supply, we call for an increase in the number of places to return the fixed number of personnel of the Autonomic Administration to the same levels as in 2009. We request this because IGE's own data reveal that from July 2009 until the same month 2015 the reduction of employment, statutory and official staff amounts to a total of 5,820 public employees; staff hired in precarious conditions or that is met in conditions of absolute precariousness, and posts that end up being also amortised or in private companies to be able to supply the staff shortages that the Government itself has generated. And as an example, the minijobs, because the board also has minijobs. Junta creates minijobs of less than 400 euros. Workers of the senior residences - of which the president of the Board of Social Policy claims - of which the President of the Council of Social Policy claims - are mobilized against the growing recruitment of staff per hour and weekend; of 145 squares created in the RPT, 53, ladies and gentlemen, are of weekend. Secondly, apply a single criterion based on the criteria of transparency and publicity of the temporary recruitment lists, not only for officials and not only for the central administration of the Union, but also for bodies dependent on it, where the criteria of consanguinity of the PP are more met than those of access in terms of equality, merit and capacity. And, to end, for example, with the outrage that a public employee or employee does not have the right to receive 100 percent of his pay, to repeal Law 1/2012; as well as articles of Law 2/2015, of Galician public employment, which consolidate those clippings. Returning the vigil in its entirety of the collective agreement of the single labour force as a fourth measure. As a fifth measure, taking into account that the discharges in salaries have not only come through the application of the State's basic legislation - we have to thank Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Montoro for that - but also the Government of Feijóo - this example of defence of public services - approved additional downloads which did not apply other autonomous communities, we must immediately revert that situation through collective bargaining; a right which I remind them that, according to the Constitutional Court itself, it also recognizes in the case of employees and public employees and that it is part of the right of union freedom as a fundamental right, and make, within a month's time, a negotiation and reaching a multiannual agreement which rejects accumulated debt. We therefore have the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, today to reverse, through the adoption of this motion, the situation of loss of rights to which the Government of Feijóo has been subjecting employees and public employees for almost eight years. They have, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the possibility of voting in favour of this motion and showing that their change of speech during the past few months has not been a consequence of the particular intrusion that requires you to disguise yourself as defenders of public employees and employees when the elections are approaching. You have the possibility that it will be shown that they really have a willingness to rectify their policies and to give back to the public employees what they've been robbed of, not only in economic terms, but also in respect of and appreciation of their work. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u99	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all of us who remain in this House in this debate which seems to be of little interest to the People's Group because if we talk about the rights of workers and public workers, and yesterday they have already made it clear to us that "plasti's born", as it is often said; that is, there is nothing, if they are not going to be paid for their theft, they will not be returned to them. I'm just that, in addition, I'm still a little affected. After listening to the president, I just happen. To me so much concentrated lie, so much deformation of reality... there comes a time when one believes that Mr. Feijóo lives in a different country, in another Galicia that must remain... I don't know, beyond the sea. Maybe he's talking about the Greek diaspora, I don't know what he's talking about, because of course he's not talking about this country when he denies that unemployment has increased here, that poverty has increased, that migration has increased, and that economic disaster is more than evident. I'm going to support this initiative, as it cannot be otherwise, and I'm going to focus on the last two points, since the first two coincide with the whole amendment we tabled yesterday to the bill amending Law 3/2008. In 2010 the Government of the State decreed a 10% replacement rate for the coverage of public services squares, which remained until 2015, when it became 50%. In that period, 20112015, according to data published in Sergas' human resources management plans, a total of 3,527 vacancies were produced, and these vacancies need to be added to other structural squares occupied by staff engaged in precarious for days, months, or with other work links. In public education, since the last general invitation to tender for transfers, 1,948 retirements have been held in Galicia and only 1,372 vacancies have been offered, which means that a total of 462 more vacancies have been added to those 1,974. This is a further decrease in the staffing frameworks of the centres, after the reduction of 3,000 teachers since 2010. However, the Council presents its offer of public employment by pointing out that the replenishment rate is 100 percent of the squares, convening only 1,004 squares, at all insufficient lights for that 100 percent replenishment. There have been no oppositions in some bodies or specialties for eight years, such as English. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they haven't convened Greek language squares for eight years, that's all the interest you have in defending our language, in supporting our language. Maybe in philosophy, they're not interested in people thinking a lot, and in many branches of FP, and then they come here talking about the importance of FP! The result is that 20 percent of the staff in the education centres today is possible. As for the General Administration, the supply of public employment did not count on the support of trade union organisations because it did not include all existing vacancies and did not address the serious problems of timeliness and precariousness that workers and public workers are suffering. So we have a Welsh administration that is operating with staff under the minimum requirements, which has an impact on the quality of public service services, and we agree that the public employment levels of the year 2009 should be recovered. As far as recruitment lists are concerned, we also support the need to apply transparency and publicity criteria, and much more to the current unemployment rates, which give rise to a high number of people listed on the lists. By setting an example, only in 10 categories of Sergas the number of registered persons is 36.410. Step by now--time is over--defending my amendment. I'm presenting an amendment for you to recognize yourself now and start negotiating your career. Therefore, he says that before convening the union representation in September to be able to negotiate the updating of the professional career agreement and the negotiation of the ordinary career scheme, a promise that you have been failing for years, and it's time for you to comply with the law, gentlemen of the People's Party. You applauded the voice of the Socialist Party when you recognized that Zapatero dropped the salary of workers and public workers by 5%. I hope that you, one day, will also do acts of contrition and recognize here all your corruption and all the cuts and misery that have imposed upon this people. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u101	Good morning to all and to all. I'll try to be brief for two questions. First, because, according to the president, I have to take care of destroying everything, destroying institutions, and the more you talk about here, the less time I have to finish everything. That's according to Mr. President. That unworthy president who is able to believe that the treatments to save people's lives are gratifying treatments. We have to give it to those who need it and point it out, and we don't have to count the cost of an operation, but it's used to save people's lives or improve their lives. But, of course, I also want to end soon because, by intervening at this moment, I am losing this process of adulation to the leader who is produced in the dining room of free time, where an important part of the People's Party adulations to that president who came here to take the hair of the Greeks and not to answer the opposition questions. So I also deeply regret that moment of whale and fray that usually happens... If you're upset, I'd like you, just like I call the order when I'm upset, you call the others in order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not saying that you won't tell me anything, but tell the others, too, unless you're the AlGhendour of the Greek Parliament. Remember, right? That referee who had a bad memory for some state selection. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Oh! For the Spanish, I say of the State, I think it's the Spanish State. I don't think I said anything wrong. No, I didn't mean it, did I? The Spanish State, the Spanish Kingdom. Ah! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's coming. Okay. Perfect, perfect. I didn't see it, but I say it because that's the question. We were talking today about the rights of public workers, and yesterday we lived here a lie and a process where in a bad copy of Mrs. Paula Prado, Mr. Tellado, I made a list of the supposed agreements and improvements that the People's Party had with regard to public workers. I was talking about some agreements that, by the way, I'd like to know where they are, because in the Official Gazette of Galicia they're not even in the agreement signed with the trade unions, it's more, one of the agreements that if they were signed with the trade unions by Mr. Valeriano, they didn't pick up in that law that was discussed yesterday. What a strange coincidence! It is true that some of the approaches that Mr. Tellado was making here today were transferred to public workers by e-mail, but as a funny element that, in any case, can be eliminated at any time because he does not appear in any decree or nor in any rule to which one can be accommodated when, for example, unilaterally withdrawing the Government itself. For example, the reconciliation of people with chemo and radio treatment. That was one of the great agreements that came here to introduce Mr Tellado. The possibility that those who receive chemo or radio treatment may be able to adapt 25% of their day. I, who have suffered some of these treatments, know that you don't need to adapt to the day-to-day because you're usually off, because you're not able to go to work when you're on chemo and radio treatment. But if you think that's a step forward in working rights, you'll know what we're talking about. But what's serious is that the same People's Party that put up as a wall defender of its cuts the public workers, even by accusing them of the situation and putting society against them, by statements by the People's Party, when the only ones who can guarantee quality public services are the public workers, are the ones who are now telling us that they are working to regain their rights. But all this is a lie, because not only is it the capacity of public workers to regain their rights, but the People's Party, from that downside of the Socialist Party, has been continuing in wage cuts; in cuts that mean that today, the public workers of the Galician ensemble are paying 30% less than before the crisis. So there's a very obvious cut. In addition, public workers have been affected by their vacations, permits, disability, for example, to rest every two weekends on shift jobs. All of this was because of the People's Party's agreements. So what we want to tell the People's Party is that what you have to do is accumulate and eliminate all the cuts you've made to the public workers, because the People's Party has behaved like a bad entrepreneur. By the way, in anticipation of what he would do later in his job reform. I mean, there's a collective agreement to apply to public workers and I'm jumping. I compose a rule, I delete collective bargaining and trade union agreements simply because I decide unilaterally. That shows what is the conception of labour rights that the People's Party has. We believe that it is necessary, as soon as possible, to return dignity to public workers, but also to pay them their wages and what was stolen from their wages, because it is essential for this country that they regain purchasing power, so that they can also activate the economy. It must be remembered that the public workers of the Galician Union, especially those of their lowest categories, from C down to C, are among the three least charged from the state. I mean, we're in the worst -- let's say -- wage gaps, about the state, with other public workers from other autonomous communities. To conclude, we made a claim to the Socialist Party regarding the derogation from Law 1/2012, it would not be for the delegation to take advantage of the People's Party to reinstate the surplus of former high offices. We, of course, hope that this is not so, because that was an aberration; we hope that, not using this proposal made by the Socialist Party, the People's Party will again use that plus of former high office, because we know that in the People's Party the cuts are for others, for them they don't usually be the cuts, nor for the companies they defend. So we will support the initiative even though our amendment is not accepted. But we understand that the goal must not be that, the goal must be to restore the rights and wages to all the public workers who were directly attacked by the People's Party; a People's Party that, when it starts to torture the truth as it was tortured here, with respect to the cuts of public workers, also ends up torturing the public workers of this country, who are tortured in councils like, for example, the character of Ferrol. Nothing else and good.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u102	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u103	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President. I get out here so much that I almost fall into colloquialism. I'm sorry. Indeed, after the debate we had yesterday around the bill -- now it is law -- presented by the Government, I think we all have little hope that I have some chance to prosper this motion that Mrs. Rodríguez presents, because in her content, in many matters, refers to matters that have already been discussed yesterday. I wanted to start by saying that there are more and more findings in reality that the cuts practiced by the People's Party here in Galicia to public employees did not have an economic orientation, but they had, essentially, an ideological orientation and that they were actually preparing for the whole of society, also the rest of the workers, to accept all kinds of cuts in their labour, economic and social rights, based on these issues. There is also a finding, after four years of the observance of Law 1/2012, that they are not only cuts that directly affect public employees in their economic and labor rights, but that they have very serious repercussions for such cuts in public services. There is an example that we have been exposed since this forum on multiple occasions, which refers to the annulment of Article 17 of the V Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union, which is done by virtue of the application of Law 1/2012, and which motivates the loss of 1,500 jobs only in residences, social centres, day centres and juvenile centres dependent on the Council for Social Policy. With fewer than 1,500 people, we need to meet more needs, because we need to remember that more and more people need attention in these centres and that attention needs are growing, while staff are decreasing. So there's a clear assault on public servants, but also on public services. This morning he repeated again the president of the Union, at the previous point, that Galicia grew more than the rest of the autonomous communities, that the Greek economy goes like a real rocket, and therefore there is no justification for continuing to keep the cuts practiced by employees and public employees. There is, from our point of view, no justification for continuing to raise offers of public employment, which do not cover all the loss of staff reductions in recent years. Even today, in the oldest province of the whole of Galicia, which is Ourense, and with more social needs, the news has been published that in Ourense alone 2,700 employees and public employees have been lost, with the interference that this entails in the provision of services to citizenship. There is still no justification for, for example, continuing to apply the collective agreement to workers and maintaining those cuts. There is still no justification, for example, for public employees not to be entitled to charge a hundred percent of their salaries in case of illness, which is another of the issues that has been cut, first through Law 1/2012, and which is now consolidated in article 146 of Galicia's Public Employment Act. So the question to which the People's Party should answer today, in this motion, which did not answer yesterday in the debate of the law on the return of money that was stolen from public employees, is whether you've thought at some point of time to restore economic and social rights to public employees, or whether you're going to continue to punish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u104	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u105	...public employees as if they had some responsibility for defeating the policies of the People's Party Government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. First of all, I'd like to comment on a question, because, the truth is, it's become repetitive on many occasions to have to listen, after the control session, as it refers to the President's rising and leaving; I think that the other groups should also review, when they're here after the control session, take a head tour to their side and perhaps look at how many companions are left. But we're not going to make the same mistake, because, in truth, that can be a more or less funny comment, with a more or less playful intention. [[Applause]] We, of course, are not going to make the mistake of interpreting that these fellows of yours who may have risen and gone are not interested in employment or in the situation of public employment in Galicia. We all here assume that they are interested in public employment and in all the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks. The same thing that we also have sitting on this side. So we ask them a little prudence when we speak from this rostrum, because, of course, to speak from this rostrum, we must have knowledge of the situation and then prudence. [[Applause]] And when I talk about knowing the situation, it's because, once again, we watch here a new scene from that apostolate of the catastrophe that is always painted from the opposition groups. Here it seems that those who sit on this side of the rostrum are a sort of winged creatures with sharp ridges that we devote ourselves to sucking the blood of all the Greeks and the Greeks with a hidden evil intent. I think that this speech that you use so often is a speech that to us, to some extent, can be comfortable, because in the end, the more you stay away from reality, the more we connect with the Greek society. [[Applause]] I mean, it seems curious that from that bench you intend to continue to sink in that manicrous speech, in that speech that PP is almost the devil... but, well, continue there, that society is putting each of us in its place. Of course, in this case we have a very close reference to the fact that the People's Party, to the Greek society, is giving it more and more confidence. To talk about the question we had on this motion, I'd like to point out a number of things. Of course, here we are talking about punishing the public servant, trying to cut public employees' rights, taking certain measures that they do is to end public services and break up with what the Administration is. Well, in that sense we tell them that they are absolutely alienated from reality, as I said before. You should know, I think you should know, that one of the fundamental objectives of this government since it took possession, in everything it has to do with public employment, was precisely shielding public services and licking them through providing stability to public employees. When I talk about the stability of public employment, the stability of public employees, I mean that Galicia was the autonomous community in which the fall in the number of public employees, of public employees, was smaller in all of Spain. In fact, it dropped by 0.6% in the period 2008-2014, when in the rest of autonomous communities the average was 1.2%. So we're talking about the community that could best provide stability for public services because it didn't exactly reduce the number of troops. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I would also like to point out a number of other issues that I think should be put on the table and that it is fair to put into value. We were talking yesterday, as was said in the debate of the bill, of many issues or many improvements that took place in the way of the Greek Public Administration in everything that has to do with public employees. Of course, we are talking about the question of the need to implement a public job offer of a greater quantitative dimension. Well, the truth is that we're talking about 2,644 public employment squares being offered this year; 2,644 public employment squares being broken down into different services: we're talking about health, education, we're talking about the General Administration. For example, in general administration, 714 squares; in health administration, in health care, 818 squares; and in education 1,112 squares. We're talking about a public job offer higher than in the last few years on a public job offer. So something is doing this government. Obviously, what happens is that governments have to make decisions based on economic reality and on the capacity that each administration has at every moment. In that sense, as many times have been told from this rostrum to the opposition groups, the People's Party has encountered an economic situation in which it was not possible to carry out, for example, a very high public job offer; an economic situation that, thanks to being well managed, nowadays allows more resources to carry out more quantitative public job offers and to improve also the rights of workers, workers and public employees. In that sense, it's funny to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u108	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u109	...that from here it is said that the People's Party is the workers' party. So look, we tell them one thing and we have one thing very clear: of course, who has to tell us what the People's Party is and the interests that the People's Party defends...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u111	...they're the Greeks and the Galicians. And fortunately, the Greeks and the Greeks, the German workers and the Greek workers, day by day, when we go out to the street and look at them in the eye, we listen to their vision of reality and not that of the opposition groups, they tell us that we are going the right way and that we have to keep working in this direction. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u112	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Motion author group. You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u113	Thank you very much, President. I would like to thank the support of the opposition parliamentary groups. With regard to the amendment of the Gaga de Left alternative, I thank you for your amendment, Mr Fajardo, since, having the ruling People's Party, you have to take all possible precautions. We have already done so, asking through a LNP last year for the elimination of the surplus of high charges, for being out of reality, and for wages to be made on the basis of public and transparent criteria and objectives. We therefore accept the amendment. In the case of the amendment of the Joint Group, we also accept it, Mrs Martínez, because we believe that updating the professional career agreement is necessary and urgent right now. Mr. Fernández, you're right, I'll give you the reason. There's a lot of stability in public employment in Galicia. Look, there's so much stability that -- as Mrs. Paz said -- they've lost at the 1,500 jobs. And do you know how I lay--partly only--that staff? Well, look, she refused precarious work; with employees who had to travel 180 kilometers to work two hours. For example, Esther, nurse, for 2 hours and 20 hours, we have to do 180 kilometers between Lugo and Oleiros, because. Otherwise, they take us out of the recruitment lists. It's true, there's a lot of stability and there's no precariousness in the Galician Union, no. The last salary tables published in 2015 set the basic salary of a Group 5 worker at EUR 909 for a full day. With which, the salary for two days' work, which is what hires the waitresses of the old residences, does not reach EUR 364 a month. Mr. Fernández, you see that there is tremendous stability in public employment in Galicia and that there is no precariousness! As for Mr. Zapatero and the 5%, who want to follow... If they want, I keep going, eh! You, who are so centralist and always say that all autonomous communities have to have the same rights and freedoms, it turns out that the Greek public officials are at the expense of comparing them with those of other autonomous communities, since they have an additional flap that still remains this year, and for officials of other autonomous communities, many of them governed by socialists, do not stay, Mr. Fernández. So Mrs. Paz asked a question: if they had planned to restore the rights of public employees. I believe, Mrs. Paz, that the answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u115	...it's very clear: the answer is no. You don't think they're a devil with a tail; we just think they apply their ideology. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the treatment of waste water
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u117	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u118	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u119	Thank you very much and good morning, gentlemen. Today we continue to hold on to an item that was discussed at the last plenary meeting. At this plenary meeting, we raised three questions to the Counsellor, questions which the Socialist Parliamentary Group has repeatedly raised, without the fact that we have a concrete answer to this day that we can consider valid. I'll repeat it. The first is: how many and what are the populations with more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants that have EDAR. The second is: which of these EDARs are in operation and which are not. And the third is what today is the percentage of waste water treated with respect to the total collected waste water. In the same plenary, we again asked these questions and again we went without a reply. I have to tell you, Madam President, that in this plenary - and ostensibly - the Counsellor has given Mr. President a relationship of the EDARs that existed, of which we were to be transferred to the Socialist Group, and that today he has not given us anything or has not achieved anything; therefore, we are in exactly the same situation. What we do know, ladies and gentlemen, is that since 2003 the Kingdom of Spain has been required by the European Union precisely because of its failure to comply with environmental legislation. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that since December 31, 2005 -- therefore, ten and a half years ago -- all populations with more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants, 100 percent of their waste water had to be treated, which obviously was not met in 2005 and is still far from being met in 2016. From the answers of the Galician Union we can deduce, because they're not accurate either, that three populations of between 2,000 and 15,000 inhabitants lack EDAR, and two populations of more than 15,000 inhabitants also lack EDAR. But what we don't know is how many of these edares have the capacity to treat as much as 100 percent of the water that comes to them. And we don't know how many of these edares are running at 100 percent of their capacity or, on the contrary, they're operating at 25 percent, at 30 percent, at 50 percent, and even in some cases we find that 0%; i.e. they're not being operational. We also know, ladies and gentlemen, that since 2012 the Kingdom of Spain has opened a sanctioning file by the European Union for failure to comply with European environmental legislation. We know that this sanctioning dossier is currently being processed at the European Union Court of Justice, and that despite the repeated verbal commitments made by the Kingdom of Spain and taken by the Council of Galicia, today is the day when these obligations continue to be met, and there is no trace of when they will be fulfilled. The only specific fact that has provided us with counseling in the past full is that 77% of Galician waters were in good condition. This assumed that in recent years the percentage of water in good condition has risen from 70% to 77%, i.e. a moderate increase of seven points. But it also assumes, Your Honor, that 22.5% of Galician waters -- we talk about our lakes, we talk about our rivers, we talk about our rivers -- they're not in acceptable environmental conditions. What about the creeks of Pontevedra, Burgo or Ferrol, for only three cases? What about our rivers, such as the Sar River, which passes next to Santiago and is going to pour into the Arousa River? How many thousands of cubic meters are being seen daily in our undeclared rivers? Thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands. I dare to assure you, ladies, that there are several hundred thousand. And I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that probably the total number of cubic meters of dirty water that occur in Galicia must be around one million a day, and of that million a day there are hundreds of thousands of thousands that are coming to our rivers and our undeclared streams, or at least without properly debugging. We have, ladies and gentlemen, a multitude of debuggers--and some of them in Santiago's environment--which, inaugurated more than five years ago, five years later, are still not working. And I can put the specific case of a debugger next to Santiago, in the municipality of Santa Comba, inaugurated by Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Agustín Hernández, in May 2011, on the eve of the municipal elections, which was closed for years, because the debugger was made but had no connection to the electric lines, and therefore could not work. And I can tell you that today, five years later, the Town Hall of Santa Comba has it unreceived, therefore, by the Town Hall of Santa Comba it doesn't work, but it's the consulting department, in the relationship that just brought us to this June, it doesn't have it either. So I'm very afraid that 4 million euros invested, and five years after the inauguration, these waste waters continue to flow into the rivers without debugging. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what our group formulates, what it calls for by the Galician Union, is the adoption of a series of measures, oriented first to the comprehensive control of the purification and sanitation of Galician waters, and to ensure the quality control of them. The second, to investigate and publicly reflect, clearly and transparently, the situation in which the 160 debuggers, which, according to the Galician Union, are operating in our territory. Thirdly, to provide and report the percentage of the water treated with respect to the total waste water collected in our community. And lastly, by contributing the percentage of debug stations that are in operation, specifying which ones are not in operation and why reasons; or which ones are in operation in unappropriate conditions. Finally, the derogation from new taxes provided for in the water legislation. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u120	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u121	Good morning to all again. Earlier, the spokesperson of the People's Party spoke that he had very clear where the People's Party was putting citizenship. I don't know very well where he puts it, it's true that he's losing most of them every time; but if I know where the People's Party is recently seen: see you through Alcalá Meco, see you through the prisons, see you through the suites of some hotel in Ourense... that's where you see the Popular Party. You can also see the president in the country's creeks, walking with drug dealers... Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know that when you talk about these things, the People's Party remixes itself in its chairs. But it's true, what do you want me to tell you? With more than a hundred accused persons, people in prison, presidents going through drug traffickers, you have to remind him. What do you want me to tell you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u122	They don't dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u123	Whenever you want. I laugh the most I walk around is on the beach pedals, which I have no economic capacity for anything else. Not like the president, who was walking with drug dealers. I insist, I insist... I know you're upset, but it's true. Just like they're charged and people who are in jail, by the People's Party, for stealing money from all of them. The proposal presented by the PSOE is an absolutely necessary proposal, although we believe - it is also true - that it is short in some respects. It is true that it is essential in this country to analyze the causes that our water situation is what it is; for which it is increasing the number of areas C with respect to production processes, and also, of course, with the fact that we are getting a lot of reports from the European Union that determine that our coast is full of points of dumping. Of course, what is particularly suspicious is that, after spending hundreds of millions of euros on debugging, we continue to have a worse water situation than the previous one. I'm going to give some data to take into account how it's possible that these good managers have spent hundreds of millions of euros and the situation today is what I'm going to report later. For example, in the Vigo River, 278 million euros invested in debugging; in the Ferrol River, 256 million euros invested in debugging, and it turns out that the Ferrol River has areas C and therefore cannot be consumed directly, but rather it must be purified. Or, for example, a debugger who turns out he didn't clear up despite spending that amount of money. Only in five years, in the Burgo creek, EUR 78 million. And today the Burgo creek presents a lamentable situation in terms of pollution. In the strategic plan of the Crown 2010-2015, one billion euros. We are talking about close to 2,000 million euros invested in debugging in Galicia, in the governments of the People's Party, and what is the situation? For there are 8,600 recognised discharge points, with 53 % of the coastal waters which do not meet the environmental targets set out in the European Union's pollution legislation on chemical, microbiological pollution, nutrient increase, ecolli, or, for example, the presence of microplastics. That two out of three beaches that are not fit for the bathroom, in the state as a whole, are in Galicia; and all of that despite that magnificent management of the People's Party. So we believe that, first, we have to recognize what is the status of debugging in those debuggers that are supposed to be in the country. Which they're clearing up, it's not gonna be like we're dealing with situations like Ferrol's. And also recognize which ones are surpassed as to their ability to absorb the spills that come to them. And also to know which of our debuggers also have tertiary debugging; that is, the debugging that goes beyond the solids, that reaches the chemical contamination, that in laughter like that of Arousa or that of Pontevedra there is already a danger. So the first thing the European Water Directive says is that administrations have to put the means to improve water quality, and above all to protect mollusc production areas, because our streams are mollusc production areas. How is it possible, for example, that the People's Party has agreed that in the most productive stream in the world are building up 5 million cubic metres of waste from the dredgings of the works of the Atlantic axis and the dredgings of the ports? And let all of this be allowed, by the People's Party, in the mouth of the most productive creek in the world. So it's necessary to rethink how we're doing debugging in this country, how we're dealing with our coast, our marine environment. But, above all, if it is necessary to continue in that - I believe - wrong plan of macro-depurators in the country's municipalities, or if we have to go to that nearby debugger, that neighborhood debugger, that debugger even building. We think we need to rethink the model, because what reality is it? For most of the industrial waters of this country are not being debugized and the whole of our rivers have a rather regrettable appearance, especially in their ability to generate wealth through marine and fishing exploitation. We're in a limited position, and if we don't take letters in the matter, it's very likely that in very little time we're in the last generation that can live from the sea in our country, simply because the People's Party wants them out of the sea to be occupied by other kinds of activities, such as miners, such as industrial aquaculture or how they can be energy production, so they're allowing it to be impossible to live out of our sea. We have tabled an amendment, concerning the Socialist Party's proposal, which all it proposes is that in those reports given to the whole of Greek citizenship it also includes what kind of debuggers are already doing, today, in the whole of the country, tertiary clearance. We will therefore support the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u124	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. As it could not be otherwise, we will support the motion put forward by the PSOE because we believe that the problem of waste water treatment is a problem of great environmental magnitude, and a great responsibility of administration itself for the environmental consequences of health, economic and labor. We agree with the points presented. We also know that considerable effort has been made to comply with European legislation, which is still pending. In the last plenary session, we had the intervention of the advisor, who brought us closer together, information on the total number of debuggers and those located in the rivers of Greece, which are centres of economic production, especially for seafood and fishing activities, and also for the quality of water. There's still a lot more work to be done. In fact, Galliza always goes to the queue of the state as well as the European Union. We are also told that most of the agglomerations over 15,000 inhabitants are 100 percent covered. And you're also talking about a percentage of water that's supposed to be in good condition. But this kind of information is incomplete, because if you have to do another kind of approach to how the real conditions of this kind of sanitation are found. And if there's a reality, the two-thirds of the debuggers themselves work badly. It is also true that we must have another handicap, a peculiarity of our land, which is the scattered population. Because there are also many black wells and septic pits that have domestic waste water uptake, and not only in rural areas, but also in urban areas. And also a lot of water doesn't go through EDAR itself. The debuggers, as we said yesterday, are unable to process this whole stream. Yes, it is true that Galicia was meeting a few years ago, in 2009, as the last state community as a percentage of homes connected to public supply networks. And we're talking about many millions of euros invested, many millions of European funds, with the supposed objective of real stream sanitation. It shows improper management, and we have the facts: the contamination of the rivers itself. The construction of sanitary networks that pollute rainwater by mixing it with waste water; a set of defective, when not inoperative; the absence of interconnections that allow for the transvasion of contaminated water from one debugger to another in the event of damage; the total absence of industrial water pre-depuration; the lack of maintenance of general networks; the errors in the installation of collectors and damage on pumps, it does not seem, of course, to achieve improvements. And then, the privatization of the sanitation and supply of municipal water, a model for the liberalisation of public services that you so much like in this country, which causes the municipality and the public administration themselves to disagree on their obligations and that concessional companies are not in compliance with their contracts for the construction of infrastructures and pipelines, or the putting into operation of purification phases such as tertiary, bacteriological treatment, installed, for example, in the EDAR of Cangas. The economic goals that mark the private company translate into a lack of investment and maintenance, into inoperability on time of pumping systems and sewage purification, which, especially when it rains, are not able to do this function, diluting in a hidden way, and once again, into the aquatic or marine environment itself. And we no longer talked about scandals like last year, the discovery in Ferrol that the debugger himself, who had construction anomalies, didn't depurate, and still above the tribute. Obviously, we agree with the derogation from the new water law enforcement fees, or disinfection problems found at the stations themselves, as happened in Sada or in the municipality of Cedeira, with pumping problems; or the EDAR itself in Santiago, where 50% of the water returns to the river without debugging. And we no longer speak of threats to the European Union's fines for not complying with its own regulations; we no longer speak of the excuses -- which is like The endless history -- of the lack of commitment of the Union itself, for example, to the debugger of the Pleasures in the Pontevedra River, which is no longer just a problem of pollution, because here we are also talking about thousands of people who have their source of income from what they derive directly from the stream itself. And also from the review of works done more than 20 years ago that need renovations; debugging technology that is already obsolete, sanitation that at the time of rain in many cases does not work. Of course, we should look for an alternative model based on the installation of sustainablely scaled debug stations, located in the most appropriate locations and respecting the minimum distances of houses fixed by law, which, for example, the Pontevedra debugger does not meet. And above all, what we ask, apart from the points presented, is collaboration and cooperation so that all administrations have this kind of information and can provide it to the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr Jorquera Caselas speaks for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u127	Thank you, Madam President. We are a country characterized by its extraordinary river wealth, so Cunqueiro baptized Galicia as the country of the thousand rivers. However, our rivers continue to suffer multiple environmental aggressions, including the spills of waste water. We're also lucky to have a unique coastline. Our laughs, because of their landscape beauty, their environmental values and their productive potential are an ecosystem of incalculable value, but the degradation that many of them suffer is simply scandalous. And there are laughs like Ferrol's or Burgo's laughs that have the dubious merit of being the most polluted marine in Europe. Pollution is the main cause of the fact that the productive capacity of the Burgo River is only 20 per cent of its potential, and that in the 1980s this stream of this work to 2,000 sailors and today less than 100. And if we talk about Ferrol's hive, studies by accredited marine biologists estimate that in recent decades it has lost 3,000 species due to pollution. And while that happens, they keep pouring waste water without debugging. The European Union Directive on the treatment of urban waste water lays down the obligation to debug 100 per cent of waste water from nuclei of more than 2,000 inhabitants. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, instead of letting the British people say no to the European Union or rather being so obedient to Mrs Merkel's statements, it would be better if they were concerned about fulfilling this goal, because this target had to be reached on December 31, 2005, and in Galicia, eleven years later, we were still waiting. The motion urges the Union to thoroughly control water purification and sanitation, ensuring its quality, and in that sense demands that the Government of Greece provide all information to know the real state of waste water treatment in our country. It therefore raises a question also raised by the BNG Parliamentary Group on various occasions, and also proposes, in its 5th paragraph, the derogation of the new taxes of water legislation, something which we also agree with. The rise of the water canon was not born to rationalize consumption, it was born with a clear pursuit of collection; a pursuit, by the way, of which curiously are excluded from the large companies that contaminate our rivers. So, for example, you enjoy a concession to catch the Lérez River 1,500 liters of water per second. By virtue of this concession, which he benefited from when he was a public company and which was then given to his new owners, Ence only pays EUR 900,000 a year, when he would have to pay 5 million for the water cannon and another 5 million for the vegetables. Almost EUR 10 million per year, which is thus detachable in the practice of public buildings to reward the continued contamination of the Pontevedra River. And while this happens, in our country there are still thousands of spills, there are countless delays in the putting into operation of the sewage stations that have been engaged for years, and there are countless complaints about the poor functioning of many of those that exist. For these reasons, the BNG Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u128	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u129	Thank you, President. It's a pity there's no spokesman or deputy spokesman of the Socialist Party, which is so fast going towards the absence of the others, that they're paying attention to the spokespersons of this party, the party that represents most of the citizenship, even though it seems to some that they don't like it. [[Applause]] You're following, ladies and gentlemen, denying reality, and that's very worrying. Ladies and gentlemen, I do the words of the spokesperson for the Nationalist Block, logically changing some things. You disqualify reality, you disqualify Galicia, to disqualify this government and the political party that represents most of the Greek people. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, don't bother--and I'm sorry that you're not the deputy spokesman-- Mr. Zapatero has ruined our country, destroyed 3.5 million jobs; he's responsible for thousands of closures of businesses and businesses and he's also responsible for the problems that have occurred in public services in recent years. [[Murmurs.]] It's true that he did something good, very little, and I recognize and feel proud and I feel grateful to some of him. I'm glad you approved the same-sex marriage, of course I'm very happy! [[Murmurs.]] But, look, following with pride, as Gloria Gaynor sang: "Just turn around now, you're not welcome anymore." "You're not welcome anymore" is what all Spaniards are telling Mr. Zapatero. Her companion came with this on her head, so when she spoke to my companion she thought it was me to make her look. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, when the elections come, you lose your support, you lose your deputies, you lose your senators, and you are unable to explain why citizens don't trust you. [[Murmurs.]] What I'm unable to do is explain to me why you only lose 100,000 votes. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u131	But you, ladies and gentlemen, by denying reality, we will continue to receive the support of the majority. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that one of Galicia's great wealth is our rivers and our rivers. [[Murmurs.]] In addition, this group of which I am part supports a government that has made the greatest environmental investment in the history of our autonomy: investments in sanitation, investments in purification and water supply. Since 2009, more than EUR 1,100 million in investments, more than 350 sanitation activities in more than 160 municipalities in Galicia; 39 debuggers made by this government, 25% of all in Galicia. The new infrastructures provide service to more than 1.2 million Galicians, almost half of our population. Much of these efforts have been intended for the purification of our rivers; in particular, since 2009 600 million have been destined to improve the state of the rivers. These efforts, ladies and gentlemen, of all the Greeks made it possible for the percentage of water in good condition in the Galicia Costa demarcation to rise to 77,5 %. It's a success for all, ladies and gentlemen, not just for this government, not just for this party. [[Murmurs.]] It's a success for all the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we have to keep working up to 100 percent, but we can say we're on the right track. And besides, ladies and gentlemen, today we have met with the European Union in planning matters, something that didn't happen when you ruled or left the Government. And in order to achieve that European-level compliance, we have been able to launch the Galicia Costa 2015-2021 Hydrological Demarcation Plan, with an additional budget of 655 million euros to continue and expand the previous Water Plan approved in 2009, which gives us strong water planning for the next six years. It's not just that we've made the biggest environmental investments, that we're going to continue to do them to further improve the quality of our waters. By the way, you ask, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that only Mr. Jorkera spoke here of the derogation from the new tributes. Ladies and gentlemen, this perfectly describes the lack of coherence, the lack of consistency, the lack of robustness of your speeches. You're able to say one thing and you're against it as they're in a place, as they have an audience or as it is time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u133	When you put on the environmental mask, you say one thing; when you're on those who have to pay those environmental costs, you say another completely different, and when you put on the European mask, you still have the ability to put on another mask.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, are you in favour of the Community principle that those who pollute pay? Are you in favour of the principle of cost recovery? Are you in favor of or against the sustainability of the system? Are you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u136	Finish, please, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u137	...signs, in favour of the principle of interterritorial solidarity? Are you in favour of the general principles of contribution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u138	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u139	...in Article 31 of the Spanish Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u140	Thank you, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u141	Answer me, Mr Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u142	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Thank you. Motion author group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, thank the other parliamentary groups, with the exception of the People's Party, for their support for this initiative. And, of course, we accept the amendment to addendum made by the AGE Parliamentary Group, which we believe will complement and improve the proposal we have tabled. With regard to Mr. Trenor, the truth is I don't know very well what you were talking about at first, I suppose you were answering something else that had nothing to do with the issue that we are dealing with today. But by focusing on the issue that we're dealing with today, I wasn't talking about the 1,100 million euros that you and the councillor lady have invested in Galicia's board. The problem is, it happened with these 1,100 million euros. The problem is how it's possible that 70 percent of the water that was in good condition seven years ago, we would only turn to 77 percent, and so there's 22.5% of the water that's still in unacceptable conditions. The problem is how many debuggers are built that are not operational or are they not operating properly? Here is the scandalous example of Ferrol, charging even the debugging rate and with the debugger not working. I told you the case of Santa Comba, opened in May 2011. Why isn't that debugger working? Who makes it work? What's going on there? How could a debugger be made without electric light? Who could have thought that could work? The truth is there are 160 debuggers, as the Counsellor said. We don't know where, Mr. President, because I seem to give you a plan that would bring us to the full past, and it must be wrong the mail that hasn't reached our parliamentary group yet. Since he's present, I hope he agrees to send us the plan. There are 160 debuggers, as it is said, and there are only 140 nuclei of more than 2,000 inhabitants, but instead there are 5 that have no debugger, although we are not told which. But there's a lot more that we know it doesn't work or it doesn't work well, and the reality is what it is, Mr. Trenor. We want our country and we want the best for our country. But you, who is from the Coruña, do you think Burgo's laugh is in proper condition? Do you think Ferrol's creek is in good condition? Even the Arousa River is in good condition, and the Pontevedra River, and the Sar River? You think that's all right? He's obviously not. So why don't you agree that the Galician Board will investigate and publicly reflect the exact conditions under which these debuggers and their operating regime are found? Why is the People's Party opposed to making public the percentage of water being treated and the percentage of water being untreated? It's transparency. In short, Mr President, there's a problem of quantity, there's a problem of quality and operation of these facilities, there's a problem of control of what's going on and there's a final problem of information to citizens and political representatives about what's going on and about how the money is being invested, or better than what it's for. By the way, it's great that we're meeting the regulations that we had to comply with in 2005. In 2016 we comply with it for planning purposes, not functioning. I mean, according to Mr. Trenor, there by 2021, if we're lucky, we might as well comply with the rules of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u145	...2005. I'm telling you, the way we're going, neither.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u146	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the management of the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of the milk sector, the demands to be made by the Union of Galicia to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u147	No amendments were tabled. For the defence of the motion, Mr. Sánchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u148	Good afternoon. I'm going to do an intervention in the morning plan. He spoke of solidity and rigour, Mr. Trenor, and he said that since 2009 this government has invested 1 billion euros in the rivers of Galicia. To be strong, you have to say things strictly. This government has not spent EUR 1 billion on cleaning up the rivers, in which case it was budgeted by all public administrations, budgeted. Then I would also say if the lords of the People's Party sounded something to Operation Frontino. There were two public companies called Aquamed and Aquaes, and Mr. Cañete and high money inflated the works and budgets to pay favors. I don't know if it sounds like it. So, of these 1 billion, there's got to be something left in someone's pockets, some company, and then we'll start to understand why, after so many years of the People's Party's government, the yellow rivers are as they are and they still don't meet the required parameters, and they've already passed several deadlines. It also has to do with corruption. Operation Frontino, remember: Aquamed and another company for the northwest, which is called Aquaes, which happened to be the one that did the debugging station of Cape Prioriño in Ferrol, remember? The one who threw the shit straight to the creek and, despite that, the People's Party paid the tax to the neighbours and neighbours of Ferrol. That was the company. To charge a fee for not providing a service. And Mr. Florentino Pérez rubbing his hands and lining himself up, with a security guard 16 hours a day as the sole staff of that debugger. What a trick you're talking about is solidity and rigour! And this happened with the healing of the rivers in thirty years, also happened with the rural sector of Galicia. Also with our land, with our primary sectors and with our rural areas. A Government of the People's Party who has done so for 28 years, of the thirty few that we have in democracy, and who has not been able to give the country a future. Data doesn't lie. The data say that we have today a very dangerous development in our rural areas. Mr. President, were you...? So you don't listen? Just hear from the left ear? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think there's a selective audition here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, I'd just miss! Well, I say at least, if you want to talk, get them out. The evolution of rural areas in Galicia, which is not linked to the policies of the People's Party, leads us to current data; and I don't say so, before they call me a catastropheist. Lean, read the study before the 20142020 Rural Development Program and will see the data of aging and abandonment of rural. Dramatic data! We're reaching an almost non-return point in demographic data and data on abandonment and aging. The People's Party that makes that PDR? As we are losing population and there is a very serious ageing, of the most serious in Europe, there is abandonment and destruction of exploitation, one in three jobs in the primary sectors has been lost since Mr Feijó's rule. In seven years he destroyed 25,000 jobs. This is what the Galego Institute of Statistics says: one in three jobs, 25,000 jobs in the primary sector. So we have to bet on continuous policies, that's right. And we have to conclude that the will of the People's Party is that. We believe that there are possibilities to give rural people a future, but first we have to have a will; we want to give rural people a future. Rural is not just agriculture, rural is not just forestry, it's not just primary sectors. But there will be no future in the Brazilian countryside, nor in any rural area, if these sectors are not viable and people cannot live worthy of their work. There is no future in a rural area where primary sectors are impoverished, where producers of wood, milk and food do not pay a decent price for their work. There won't be. So, a government that wants a future for that rural has to make public policies that ensure that people who do their job well, who work, who produce food for society, pay decent prices for those foods. And if that government, for so many years, is unable or unwilling to establish a framework where the landowners, the farmers, and so on, are not protected from the abuse of industries and distribution to guarantee them a dignified life, that government is denying the future to this country and its countryside, and is betraying its country and its rural. There's no more. If there is sovereignty in public institutions, policies are the ones that determine that framework, and so far the framework that is a framework of permanent abuse and discrimination against gainors, that if they have done their duties, that they do their work, and even above, adapting to the model that you said was a model adapted to this country: investing in quota, gaining dimension, investing in technology, what you call modernizing. Instead, they had a government that doesn't do their homework. These same farmers, being in other countries, in other regions, would not have to close. Many of them shut down for their responsibility, for not doing their homework in land-use management so they can have a territorial base and depend less on inputs -- some inputs that have a high volatility in international markets. They didn't do their homework with a serious industrial policy. We're not asking anymore. We do not ask that we agree on the model. Something serious, gentlemen of the People's Party, that is not Milk Food. Give 8 million euros of public money to friends who don't even have the capacity to manage; two lieutenants of mayor of the People's Party who put in front of what would be the industrial star project of the transformation of the dairy sector, so necessary for this country. Eight million to trash. Debts to gain money, cooperatives to break... That was the result of the People's Party. We do not even ask to agree on the model, the only thing we ask is a minimum of seriousness, honesty and honesty. That's all. Nor have they done their job in the industrialization and transformation of the dairy sector. They haven't done their duties in the regulatory framework either, because for you there is what is in principle abstract, which is market freedom. What kind of market freedom are they talking about? What freedom does a yellow sheep have when he sells his milk? What is freedom? How can you select a winner? Market freedom is an increasing freedom of distributors and industry to set their conditions and impose their conditions by force. That is what their policies have achieved: they have not adopted any rules that can balance this situation; they have not helped to articulate the sector to balance this situation, as has been done in other countries, for example in France. But the difference between France and this country is that they have governments, whether right or left, that keep policies beyond four years. This government, in addition to unwillingness, gives bandages. We have already carried two historic agreements announced by Mr. Feijóo and endorsed by Mr. Feijóo's word. One in 2013, unanimously adopted with the vote in favour of all groups, so that they say after we have a destructive attitude. It was the one who said that Mr Feijóo was committed to leading the drafting of food quality law by introducing the concept of reference price to prevent it from being sold under production costs. Remember that? Mr. Feijóo doesn't remember anymore, he hasn't shown up again. Where's that reference price? Where is that regulation that guarantees that it is not sold under the price? For two and a half years they've been selling yellow cattle under cost prices; for two years they've lost money every time they sell milk, and they've closed 70% of the dairy farms in the Spanish state. Until March 2016, since March 2015, in the last year, 534 Greek farms have been closed, 534!, more than 10 per week. That's your balance. So they didn't do their homework either in land management or in industrialization or in the regulatory framework. What is it, lack of will? I think so. You bet on extermination, you don't bet on a balanced country, you don't bet on taking political measures that guarantee a balanced country. They didn't do their job of providing rural housing for an administrative organization to make endogenous economic policies. You even make industry and distribution parapet when there's gang protests, criminalizing the protest. And, above all, you go out defending industry and distribution, when you're aware that abuse is being committed, that you're selling yourself for loss, that you're using milk as a claim product. And you tell me -- you never come out here to tell me -- how many sanctions did the People's Party put on the dairy industry for selling milk to loss or distribution for using milk as a claim product. I'll tell you, last year in Portugal, two and a half million euros. I suppose the operation of Carrefour in Portugal is similar to what you do here in Galicia, but in Galicia we don't know any sanctions. See if they come here for once, they answer and say, we have these sanctions imposed on the distribution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u149	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u150	...then they'll gain some credibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u151	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u152	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, when we debate the Greek milk sector we are debating an economic sector of food sovereignty, we are discussing a way of life and we are discussing the future of the German countryside. It is a strategic productive sector, because agribusiness is one of the main economic and social infrastructure engines in Galicia. Its liquidation is assuming the depopulation and desertification of our rurals, the ruin of a lot of families and the closure of many small and medium farms. It is also the ultimate crack of food self-sufficiency in Galicia. The situation is desperate and desperate. In addition, he loses his own survival in a terrible scenario, a scenario of increasing inputs, of the free price drop, agreed by the monopolies of the dairy industry and the large surfaces, under the very costs of production. This offensive of the market, this offensive of capitalism, is not only consented to by the Government of Spain and the Government of Galicia, which do not look elsewhere; rather, said, yes, they look at another part of the interests of Galicia and of Galicians, they look at the interests of the oligarchy they represent and of which they are part; and they also articulate measures to secure the businesses and benefits of the large monopolistic groups and of the large European corporations, whose interests they represent and defend the Government of Mr. Feijóo and the absolute majority of the People's Party. Policies that the Counsellor tries to justify in her speech, to be questioned, as they always do since the Government of the People's Party, with macroeconomic data. It's data that matches accounts, but it's data that doesn't respond to the reality of this country, so rich, so rich in natural resources. Data that also does not provide solutions. It's true, when it comes to accounts, but they don't provide solutions; they don't provide real solutions that stop the depopulation and impoverishment we're suffering from in this country called Galicia. There are other data that see the failure of this PP government economic model for citizenship; not for the PP government, a neoliberal government and for its friends. In 2015 they died for the first time, since 1941, more Greek than they were born. I don't know if they care about this data, I hope so. And the emigration of ours does not stop growing. In the same year, in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, 5,000 Galicians and Greeks had to emigrate in search of a future that here is not possible. We're in a country sown with tantors, where the Galician Union has invested more than 1.7 million, and where? From the European Funds for the Modernisation of Rural Galicia since 2009. What an investment, ladies...! In tanatorios, in death! As the rurals mutter, Your Honor, rub the rurals of disgust and abandonment on the part of the People's Party and on the part of the conservative ideology that you defend. This government deserves to be reprobated by this House, and Galicia has new rulers who look to people, their lives and the future of Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u153	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u154	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Today, this morning, I decided that I would devote all this time to asking questions to the People's Party and the Government of the Galician Union, and at this point the question could be when you thought the Greek Government would take seriously the problem that goes through the dairy sector. There's an indisputable question, which is that, always making the same policies, no different results are achieved. And objective data show that with the policies developed by the People's Party in relation to the dairy sector, both in the Government of the State and in the Government of the United States, not only does the critical situation through exploitation not solve, nor is there any mechanism for securing a future for the Greek dairy sector, but the situation becomes more and more unsustainable every day. In March, all the parliamentary groups, after meeting with all the organizations representing the producers, integrated into the milk sector platform, presented an initiative in this Parliament calling for a committee to be set up to deal with all of them, with the sector, urgent measures to address the crisis so terrible that they were living the farms, and that we knew and we all knew that, if it did not address it, it would take a lot of operations that could be viable, that could be sustainable, and that, once they are closed, we all know that they would never reopen. Mr. Sánchez mentioned earlier to the farms that have been closed in Galicia this year. The People's Party then argued that it was not necessary to set up this commission because they already had a commission on which the Government was participating, along with the organizations representing the sector, in establishing a plan to strengthen the dairy sector; a sort of strategy plan for the dairy sector that should have been made since 2009, because already in 2009 we knew that April 1, 2015 ended the quotas and therefore we had to prepare the sector for that new scenario. But no, the Galician Union decided that February 2016 was the time to set up a work plan to make a future plan for the dairy sector. We are today on 29 June and have spent almost six months since the Council and the People's Party repeatedly announced that this plan for strengthening the milk sector would be the solution to the problems of the milk sector. It is about to end Mr Núñez Feijóo's second legislation without any real measures being taken to solve the problems of the dairy sector, nor the conjunctural and immediate problems it currently has, resulting from the price crisis in the whole of the European Union resulting from the overproduction of milk products currently in the European Union, nor has there been any measure which is not to be destroyed to modify those structural elements that are causing our dairy sector. That's why the question is: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do you really care about something about the dairy sector? Do they really care that we continue to have some kind of economic activity in many parts of our country, where the only activity that exists and there can be is the one linked to the livestock farms, mainly to the dairy holding? We are going to support Mr Sánchez's motion because, ultimately, the only thing that this motion seeks is to give it legitimacy, in some ways, to two of the commitments that Mr Núñez Feijóo has made with the Greeks and the Greeks. One, through the agreement signed in December 2012, according to which the problem of prices and price fixing would be solved through the Food Chain Law, which has not been done at the moment. And another, give some real face to the agreement signed on 23 September 2015 between the Ministry of Agriculture and all the organizations and representations that are part of the dairy chain. I no longer say they have to do or carry out the proposals that have been made here by the Nationalist Block of Galicia -- I don't speak for the rest of the groups -- neither those that have presented other groups, which were in similar lines and were equally constructive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u156	I simply ask you, please, to do something, anything, something that can contribute to getting out of this bottomless and endless well, in what's in it, the dairy sector. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u158	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The statistics in the agricultural sector, we take the data we've collected, I'd say read them, even if Mr. Tellado reads them, they're unquestionable. I mean, let's look at the data we're looking at, I think there's no doubt about it. I'll give only two. A fall of 30% of the milk price in the last two years, i.e. a reduction in wages to any citizen, in the last two years, of 30% continuously. I say it for those who find it hard to translate. Of 30 %, constant, in the last two years. Not that we've reached 30%, but that's 30% constant in the last two years. And the first quarter of this year, the worst of the last ten years. What I don't know is who's got these statistics that Mr. President read, that he said the first thing he did was to look at them. These, or they forgot to pass, or they didn't read them. I don't know what data there has to be in those statistics, or what data they have to have reflected--not us, but any public statistics--for Mr. Feijó to do something. Because data and statistics think they're indisputable. I don't know at what price you have to charge the milk to the owners of this country to react and to do something. In view of this, an increase in production across Europe, of an average of 5 %. That is to say, the same sector, and despite being the third milk-producing community in Europe, 5% of the increase in average production, but with countries like the Netherlands or Belgium with a 20% increase in production; or Ireland, by the way, is not a smaller figure, from which the European Commissioner says that this is all very well, a 30% increase in production. In Galicia 2 %, in Galicia 2 %, the third producer. And our advisor says we're actually doing it right. Whether we're doing it right only by producing or by increasing by 2 %. Against other countries that are increasing by 30 % or 20 %, and therefore are getting into the big debate, which is the market remaining, in Galicia, by 2 %. And of course, it's not because they pay attention to the advisor, they're not disappointed or you cheat, it's because production doesn't increase, because logically the price doesn't reflect it: 28 we get the latest data. They also gave Mr. Feijóo: 28 cents. You give that data to Mr. Feijóo and let him do something at once. He, who says that when there's negative data, the first thing he does is read the full report, read whatever he wants, read it the way he wants, and interpret it to him who wants it: they're authentically scandalous. Meanwhile, the political position, both in the ministry and in the Council of Galicia and in the Council, is that this has to fix Europe. I mean, what's growing by 30%, what's charging 6 or 7 cents more than the Greeks, what we're telling you from here is that we have to solve the problem of the Greeks. That's the political position of this government and of Madrid. Those who are charging and are growing to 20% or 30%, who charge 6 or 7 cents more and who play in the same market as us and who are therefore occupying our market, please ask them to come and fix our lives! That is the position we have, the only known position on this part of this government, over the last two years: that they will come to Europe. He repeated it, by the way, a few days ago, the secretary of the ministry. Look, when they talk about reality, this is reality: this is a contract signed last week. You don't have to be a statesman, either, it's a matter of going to a gainee and asking for the contract. There's no need to do anything very rare or to have any kind of office: 0.27 for the next three months. That's right, for 60 percent of your milk. The rest, at the price of milk in powder. All right? This is the contract. By the way, that of reunions and all that, we've seen it. All the price referenced to an index, which are those 0.27. And the one about the negotiating margin you put here, fuck it! I mean, take the contract, you're done today. Tomorrow, either you have this signature, or I'm not picking up your milk. This is what's happening. This is the reality, even though you win the election. Yes, although you win the election. I don't want to make comparisons with winning elections, the reason they had and those who voted for people -- they're not comparisons that come to the case. But winning the election doesn't always mean being right. This is the reality. This is the reality of most of the winners in this country. And I'm not talking about a small glove as the counselor says, I'm talking about a glove that delivers nearly a million liters a year. So this is the reality. And the last one, the olive sector. I'm saying it because I just saw the press release. In Andalusia they claim that they have a crisis problem in the sector and therefore want to reopen the debate on the CAP aid. I mean, we have a crisis sector, the aid coupled with production that is precisely focused on helping the crisis sectors, and Andalusia says it wants to reopen the debate on CAP aid because it has a crisis sector. Counsellor's answer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u159	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u160	Please, you're going to defend yourself, don't take the money from the milk. But we're going to see, lady of God, how are the money going to be taken out of milk if it's more in crisis than olive oil? What the counselor would have to take advantage of is to say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u161	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u162	...we also have the crisis sector, we're actually going to reopen the CAP debate and put up a ceiling of €150,000 per per perceptor, or modulate the aid so that milk can touch us more. Our advisor, everything that happens to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u163	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u164	...and that which is quiet... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u165	Thank you, Mr. García. Your time is up. One minute and more. Look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u166	I don't think it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u167	Home! Look at the clock, please. There he is. One minute fifteen, Mr. Garcia. No, there's only one watch here, which is what's ahead. Thank you, Mr. García. Thank you. Thank you very much. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Sánchez, I think you should change the rally mode and restart yourself, because, really, it's a good copy of your voicer, permanently absent. It's a good copy. He's doing better every day. We bring a debate again... not again, the milk, the milk sector. The tantories also came into play, because in rural areas we should not need the service of tantors. That's news. And the socialist lord puts the label... the label no, the tirita, before the wound. It refers to the position of Andalusia saying that you want a redistribution of the coupled payments in favor of certain productions, but at the expense of the milk. He doesn't like Galician position. We don't understand. The truth is, we don't know how to read, we play backwards, the only discourse that serves and is valid is a virtual truth of the opposition. But while there are still proposed agreements full of solidity, some agreements that correspond to a programme and a model of making politics unknown to all, because what is done repeatedly here, after debate in the dairy sector, is to disengage the Government of Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true, they have referred here to the election of the People's Party, but it wins elections because citizenship, the producers, the rural Galician, trusts us because it sees the facts, not only the politics of gestures that you usually get close to this House, which is really becoming a literary figure, I don't want to mention any more. Ladies and gentlemen, in this bad quarter, we have a price in Galicia - the last known ones, I think, are April 27.9 - which are prices that exceed the European average. These are prices that we are not happy with, neither the parliamentary group nor the Government, so we continue to work, to increase these prices, with many measures, regulatory and legislative measures. But the opposition usually doesn't read either the DOG or the BOE. He doesn't look at the rules anymore, but he doesn't look at the calls for aid, which are decided, quantitative. And if not, let's remember some examples. Improvement plans, investments in farm assets, more than 35 million in this call; the incorporation of youth into rural areas, more than 14 million for this year. In transformation, 28 projects, with more than 1415 million for investments. And the last, 3 million to equip you with liquidity, restructure your debts... we remember, gentlemen, we've been fighting for months to add better increases with tools, autonomic price observatories, reference to Jacob's tools, national and European observatories. Like sanctions, Mr. Sanchez. You claim here that the PP had to fine. And then last year the 88.2 million Competition put nine industries. Isn't that really a penalty? [[Laughter]] I believe that reality shows with facts what you try to transfer society, but no success. Let's remember: land mobility. It is that they had to come to the People's Party's governments to provide a current and agile legislation to be able to modify reality, with budgets this year, in the Plan of Improvement of the Agricultural Structure, of 22 million euros to be able to act on more than 100,000 hectares, to close more than 137 projects of concentration. Of course, the Bipartite went through here and then they didn't shut down farms, all the mergers were over! Indeed, in other times, political responsibilities other than the People's Party, there were no problems in rural areas, and now they do. Not at all! The parliamentary groups of the People's Party strongly support - because it has to be so, ladies - to fight all for a living rural, as you claim, for a sustainable model, where intensive models...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u170	...that you... don't protect, don't you respect? But question it, at least, question it. Well, Your Honor, on our land you have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u171	Ten seconds. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u172	...coordinate intensive models, models of other productions, and, above all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u173	Quiet, please, let her finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u174	...support it with investments, now that the budgets of the Board, that the budgets of the Council, grow for the first time. Don't stop, don't stop the government's action. And, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to repudiate the action of the opposition. And this Sunday, the Galician society has rejected them. Keep it that way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u175	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Motion author group. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u176	Several things, Mrs. Garcia Pacín. It's not all right. You were talking about the price being above the European average. It's the lowest price in the state, and April prices are lower than when you announced the agreement in September 2015. His agreement served to lower prices even further. Tell me if I'm lying! The price in April is lower than when you signed an agreement that was supposed to be to raise prices; that's how price efficiency works. And to see the rigor of the People's Party, before that of Mr Feijóo, now of the spokesperson for the Rural Environment, says: Before my claim of data on which sanctions he put the Galician Union for sale for loss or use of claims products, you answer me with an action by the National Competition Market Commission, which, as I know, does not depend on the Galician Union, Mrs. García Pacín, and made it the instance of constant complaints and continuous actions by industry from 2000 to 2013. From 2000 to 2013, and you zero! You had regulations and competences since the 1990s, and zero, zero! What you have answered me, in my question, is that you have acted Competition, which depends on the state, and in the case of complaints from private individuals, Mrs. García Pacín. That is your zeal to pursue the practices of abuse of industry and distribution! That's the rigor of the People's Party! And of course we ask for Mr Feijó's reprobation! You were talking about plans for improvement as a great contribution to this People's Party Government. In the face of an exceptional situation, you have appointed me measures and subsidies which have been granted continuously since we entered the European Union. And it's true, there were three years where there were no plans for improvement, Euro! when the People's Party ruled. You've been three years without giving a euro for improvement plans, just for incorporation plans, in an aid that had no interruptions since we joined the European Union. But what are you telling me, Mrs. García Pacín? But if you don't even know how to get me a solid argument here! It's been two years without making any plans for improvement in the worst years of the crisis, Mrs. García Pacín, so... cuts. And, above all, you're giving me how much money the European Union has to share among the winners. Yes, and the 56 million euros that were left unexecuted from the previous RDP. It was 56 million euros that were not executed because of their incapacity and ineffectiveness. That's a reality, 56 million euros that came from Europe to waste, not to use, in a sector as needed as rural. That was only reason to disprove that gentleman in his role as President of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u177	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u178	We passed the motions. We reject voting on the motion by the Socialist Group in Galicia on actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of public employment. He has already stated who has intervened by the Socialist Group that accepted amendments from the Joint Group and the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of public employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u179	We are now voting on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on actions to be taken in relation to waste water treatment. They have also stated that they accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the treatment of waste water. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected as well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u180	Finally, we are voting on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative in relation to the management of the Government of Greece in relation to the situation in the milk sector and the demands to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Central Government. G.P. Motion vote. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the position of the Parliament of Galicia in relation to the management of the Government of Greece in relation to the situation of the milk sector, the demands to be made by the Union of Galicia to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in this respect. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. We pass the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of popular initiative, promoted by the Galaga Association of Numerous Families and assumed by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on reduction of the VAT rate of leather
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u181	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I would like to greet the representatives of Agafan, the Galician Association of Large Families, who are the promoters of this first proposal, not a popular initiative law, which we are discussing in Parliament in Galicia. This is possible because in August last year the Law on Popular Law Initiative and Citizens' Participation was passed in this Parliament. This law has enabled the direct participation of citizens in the Galician Parliament to be expanded, making it easier for the Greeks and the Greeks to become actively involved in parliamentary activity and to present control and impulse initiatives to the Government of Galicia. In this way, the Galaga Association of Numerous Families has registered the first non-proposal of a popular initiative law in this Galician Parliament, but also the first non-proposal of a popular initiative law that is debated in a Spanish parliament. The People's Group has taken up this non-law of popular initiative and has called for its inclusion on the agenda of this plenary for two questions. First of all, because we share Agafan's initiative, and secondly because it is consistent with the policies of support for the Greek families of the Galician Union. We share the need to call on the Central Government to reduce the VAT rate for children's and girls' skins from 21 % today to the 4 % surplus, as a first-needed product. Many families deserve special attention, special support and protection. Galicia can be considered a clear example of the so-called demographic winter, and many families are the only ones that exceed the generational replacement rate. It is also consistent with the policies of the Galician Union. I would like to recall that in June 2011 the Law on Support for the Family and Living of Galicia was approved, which establishes the duty of the public authorities to recognize and protect the family in all its manifestations and forms of organization, giving it special support and protection. In April 2013, the Galician demographic dynamisation plan, which includes measures such as improving tax benefits, providing childcare assistance, helping with housing access or helping with public transport, was approved. In February 2015, the draft of the Plan for Family Policy, which broadened the measures of the Plan for Population Dynamics of Galicia, was presented. The German Family Policy Plan has 177 measures; a draft was submitted to the organizations and entities of the sector to seek with them the greatest possible agreement. Among these 177 measures is a specific paragraph requiring a reduced VAT rate for products of first need and attention to children under 6 years of age, considering the leathers of children and children as a product of first necessity. Galicia currently has more resources to support families. In particular, this year's budgets are set at EUR 97.2 million for children and the family, which means 40% increase over the past year. Galicia has conciliation programmes for families, such as the Bono Council, for families that don't have a square in a junior school in the United States, which has an budget of EUR 3.4 million; or the Bono Caregiver in the countryside, in those cases where there is no child school, so they can take their children to a school. Galicia also has direct support to families, such as the Welcome Card, that direct 100 euros monthly aid during the first year of the child or child, with an budget of 9 million euros, for child health and nutrition costs; the Welcome Card also includes the leathers of children and children. Galicia also has tax measures for families. Child birth or adoption deduction increased; from 300 to 360 for the first child; from 1,200 for the second child; and from 2,400 for the third child. The limit on childcare deductions was doubled, from EUR 200 to EUR 400. And Galicia also has more services for families, with 3,864 new squares in children's schools on the Blue Chicken Network. At the moment, with 20,500 squares, Galicia reaches for the first time the coverage recommended by the European Union. And we also have 7,800 new public squares in social infrastructure. What we are asking for today is to ask the Central Government to reduce the VAT rate for children's and children's leathers and to move from 21 % today to the surplus of 4 %, as a product of first necessity. Of course, we think it is a very important initiative, not only because it is the first proposal not of a popular initiative law that is debated in this Parliament, but because of its content, its importance and what will, of course, affect many families in our community. That is why we expect the support of the various parliamentary groups for this initiative, and we reiterate our gratitude to Agafan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u184	Thank you, President. Good day to all again. Greetings, thanks and congratulations to the promoters of this popular legislative initiative that is being debated today in this House. Thank you for your work and congratulations - allow me to go ahead - because this initiative is going to be approved by this House as a whole. With legislation about to end and political parties and groupings in the middle of a pre-election campaign, it can't be any other way. A legislation characterized by an increase in inequality, privatization, cuts in services and rights, an increase in poverty and exclusion. The legislating of the defeats and the suffering of the families of the working class, the most punished by the scissors of the last governments. According to the OCU, the current EVV represents an increase of EUR 415 per year per family. And according to the Organisation of Home Care, Consumers and Users, the increase would be 600 euros per family and year. That's why I'm going to the political parties here to fulfill their promises and commitments when the next executive is the result of the forthcoming autonomous elections. And I'm saying this because we're Scotsy. We're filled with unfulfilled promises, delays in compliments, and wherever I said, I say Diego. The theme of the rise of the IVE turned out to be a central axis of the campaign of the People's Party when Mariano Rajoy was the candidate for the presidency of the Kingdom of Spain in the post-rimorries of the last socialist legislation. It was a forceful campaign, a campaign accompanied by mobilizations in the way of the most radical activism, which has affected the party that now governs us: gathering signatures, stickers, blowing with megaphones, shopping, in the street, kissing babies and the famous myth of Leganes, with the presence of Cospedal, González Pons, Esperanza Aguirre and Rajoy himself. A campaign organized by the PP, in 2010, against the rise of the VAT that was committed by the Government of Zapatero, which Rajoy described as those of unusual, unfair and counter-productive measures: the knowledge of a bad government. Well, Mariano Rajoy wins the elections by an absolute majority and soon forgets the unfair, insolidary, counterproductive tax rise. Not only did he downgrade it, but he increased it, and that increase was part of a package of tough measures adopted in June 2012 that would affect, above all, the families of the working class, because it eliminated the extra pay of the employees, reduced unemployment benefits from the sixth month and increased the EVV in the general section from 18 to 21 and in the reduced tranche, from 4 to 10 %. I hope that the adoption of this popular legislative initiative is not due to pure electoralist strategy, ladies and gentlemen; and that its implementation is no longer delayed than would be desirable by its promoters, to whom I reiterate my gratitude, my congratulations and the support of this honourable Member. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u185	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u186	Thank you, President. First of all, to move that, obviously, we also meet with the Galaga Association of Numerous Families, which has transferred precisely the claim of the reduction of the VAT of leather, which we all understand that it is of justice. And to move this proposal to debate is not a gift from the People's Party nor constitutes any novelty, besides the administrative formula used to transfer it. And I say this because this group, for four years, practically all the initiatives that have moved the debate have been transmitted from the social groups, associations, groups of public professionals, and, therefore, this group, in theory of novelty that is supposed to move this initiative in this way, we understand that it is nothing new, and that this same group has defended during the processing of this modification of the popular legislative initiatives - in this case of popular initiatives - that could be precisely those people, those collectives, those who went up to this forum to defend their own initiatives, because the other one is no novelty, is what we do daily at least from the Group of the Alternative Left Gaul. The normal thing would be that the People's Party had allowed them to be precisely these people -- citizens and citizens -- who had the ability to defend their own initiatives. This group is responsible and honest with its principles, and of course, that's why we're going to support this proposal not of law by coherence. But we have to warn that in February, a similar initiative was adopted in this same plenary session on the reduction of value added tax for tablets, tampons and menstrual glasses, and from February we know nothing until today. We don't know what the Central Government is planning to do, even if it's moved. So, we understand that we will have to be alert, not that this initiative will run the same end. We warn you, therefore, that approving this today obliges the Government of Greece to demand its compliance with the Central Government, not enough with the press holder. It turns out an obvious fact that the leathers are of first necessity, and this group wants to denounce the hypocrisy of a government that - as it has already moved here by the ponent - first uses the baby cheques and the announcement of bonds and of all kinds of cheques and aids, when, on the other hand, it cuts in public services and frys the lowest incomes. The reduced general VAT - as has already been said by the Joint Group - was increased by the Central Government; first, in 2010, by the Zapatero Government, from 16% to 18% the general and from 7% to 8% in the case of the reduced; and was increased precisely later by the Government of the People's Party, which criticized when the previous opposition rose from 18% to 21% in the general type and the reduction from 8% to 10%. And you don't need to be an economist to know that indirect taxes obviously constitute a broth of inequality, because they contribute precisely to the lower incomes; engravings that are also seen increased because the tax burden of the IRPF also suffers from the lower incomes precisely. We understand, therefore, that this issue that we are dealing with, and many others that affect families, should obviously be observed from a point of view of the redistribution of wealth. We live in a state in which, unfortunately, the fiscal progression and equality of article 31 of the Constitution is practically a Utopia thirty-seven years later. It's the least resourceful people exactly the most recorded. Tax pressure on lower income exceeds 28 %. So this group defends a direct imposition on lower incomes, and precisely that in the first-needed articles these indirect taxes are reduced, because, if not, obviously, who will pay the most is who already has more difficulty in doing so. We understand, therefore, that these first-needed articles, such as leathers, should have as little an IVE as possible, in this case the so-called super-reduced, therefore, by coherence we will vote in favour of this proposal not of law, but of course we warn that the approval of it - as I have already said - obliges its compliance. You can't stay in a mere headline, it's not gonna be that we're in the same situation as what happened in February. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u188	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We also greet the members of Agafan who accompany us from the rostrum. First of all, we want to congratulate you on this initiative and present it to the House. And so do I, on behalf of my group and personally, also want to congratulate them on the work they have done, constantly and persistently, for many years by numerous families. Even if I'm a collective and we're talking about the recording that is meant for families of any kind by the leathers of children, I certainly want to congratulate you on that work so constant, often to take small steps forward with regard to any kind of family. The truth is that I, after what I've heard, know that I must also speak in terms of a certain hypocrisy. The People's Party had many opportunities to reduce the LVI of leathers, which is clearly an impossive injustice, clearly. Not a baby check, nor any other help, the cost of leather for a family, for anyone caring for a baby, is tremendous. We can see him taking a little bit of the statistics that appear on his own initiative, but also if we go to different studies in this regard: between six and eight leathers a day, with a high price and a 21% VAT; 21%, as if it were a luxury article, when it is of absolute first necessity. In Portugal 6 % - to take an example - and in the United Kingdom, exempt from VAT. So we will certainly support this initiative, without any doubt. But if we ask the People's Party to, if you do this initiative, bring it to this House and defend it, it will also defend it in Madrid and bring it forward. But it's not a headline, that we don't stay like the last debate we had about VVI for women's hygiene products, where we still don't know that there's been any implementation going on. If it is brought here today, in one of the last plenary sessions of this House, that it is not only to look for a headline, Madam, but indeed for its implementation. I, by doing a little hemerotheque, saw the complaint from many people - also from the very association that accompanies us today - in February 2015, when it was said - and I will literally read a press headline - that the new IVE punishes with the highest elevations the baby's hygiene suits: physiological serums, thermometers, different types of cotton and leathers. The reform of that VVI is done by the People's Party. That today it's amended here... okay, the amendments are good, they're positive, clearly. But it was done by the People's Party, and its entry into operation in January 2015 recorded the products just for babies. We're not going to have a debate here about demography or certain remedies that we've already done with our own advisor and also with the People's Party. If this initiative is brought today, if it is sincere and if it is said not to be a headline, but if the People's Party really believes that raising the VAT is an unfair form of redistribution, an unfair form of taxation. We think so. In various initiatives, both in this plenary and in the 3rd Committee on Economics and Business, as well as at the time of the Congress of Deputies, initiatives have been introduced by the Galician Nationalist Block for the reduction of VAT because it is an unfair tax, a tax burden on people who have less, which increases inequality. Today we simplify it perfectly with what it means for a large, single-parent family, or for a family with low incomes, buying diapers. And with that tax, it's clearly impossible to take VAT for leathers. We - as I said before - congratulated on the initiative, we support the initiative, but we consider that it should not be the headline for tomorrow in the newspapers, but that the People's Party should indeed analyse and modify how its tax system understands. And clearly the EVI, both what we discussed in February, for compresses, tampons and menstrual cups is unfair, as what we discussed for leathers and other products of first need, which are still as super luxury. Today's an example. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u190	Thank you, President. First I want to thank you for the presence here of the Galaga Association of Numerous Families, and tell them that we share their concern about the guy who's being applied to the leathers of the little ones. In Spain we have three types of EVI: that of the general products, most of them 21%; that of the reduced by 10%, and that of the over-reduced by 4%. The IVE, of course, when it was put in Spain in 1986, was born with different types. It was born with the general type of 12 %, a 6 % reduction, and an increase, that 6 %, which applied to luxury objects, which was 33 %. These guys have been varying over the years, up to the current types of VE. But a maximum has always been given: VAT collection increased. In 2002, the VAT collection was EUR 36,913 million, and it rose to last year, which reached an amount of EUR 60,305 million, 33% of the tax collection throughout the state. I remind you that EVV is a regressive tax, that you have to pay the EVV equal to a family that has no income than one that has an income of 200,000 euros a year. However, the IRPF, which is a much more progressive tax, only achieves 39 % of the collection by the State. The question now is what kind of tax we put the leather in. The first question we ask is: Is it possible that the leathers of the little ones are considered a luxury item? Well, of course, I don't think that can be justified at all. And it seems incredible to us that this type of VlV can be applied to the boys' leathers. The Royal Decree Law 20/2012 amends the types of VE. It was the last IVE ascent that made the People's Party from 18% to 21%, the reduction from 8% to 10%, and the over-reduced did not change. The new rates apply from 1 September 2012. If there were complaints before about this by the leather topic, imagine how the topic is now, because it increased even more the tax rate that applied to these leathers. There are a number of goods, which also taxed the reduced EVI by 8%, and they're going to do it by the general type of 21%. In concrete, flowers and ornamental plants and works of art. Changes also occur in goods and services to which the reduced and over-reduced type applies. For example, we moved from super-reduced to the general type, that is, from 4% to 21%, among others in laptops, agendas, blocks, compasses, pencils, waxes, paints, backpacks and other school material, something certainly amazing, and that we already complained about as something that really could not be allowed; it multiplied by 5 what was to be taxed for these products. And also, for example, funeral services, ranging from 8% to 21%. Later on, there was another modification to the VE, where the People's Party could change this. It shall do so in Law 28/2014, which entered into force on 1 January 2015. The per cents to be applied to VVE varied only in 2 products. The first, the case of live ornamental flowers and plants ranging from 21 % to 10 %, have been reduced. It is therefore medical products which, because of European Union judgments, have also had to increase. Therefore, the latest climb, which is 2012, is the one that affects the leathers, and has not been modified by the Government of the People's Party in the following changes to VAT. When the leathers were 18%, we were obviously considering them a luxury article, but when they were raised to 21%, I suppose they would consider them super luxury articles. I suppose the parents are used leather is because they're, of course, encapsulated and want to put them on babies. Here's the thing about questions. Why aren't the first-needed items considered? Maybe if you think little babies are ready to go to the bathroom, and, therefore, parents put on their diapers, it's because they're very comfortable and they don't want their children to work independently. So look, maybe you could understand this posture, but it's hard to understand it when you see that, for example, 10 % of VAT is applied to spas or luxury restaurants. In 2015 the IVE of flowers is curiously reduced to decorate our homes, not leathers. Such absurdities can become tax measures. It seems like if you want to encourage us to buy flowers so that we don't smell our babies' cachitas. Something really amazing! The diapers aren't needed for many years, we're probably talking about, like, two-year-olds, unless we're talking about children with health problems or development delays; and also more and more for our older people, who really need these diapers. Of course, when they are needed, they are essential, and I think no one can doubt that they are products of first need. It's incredible that the leathers can be recorded with more than twice as much of the VAT that, for example, wine or beer. I think all these things should make us reflect. Of course, we will support this reduction in VAT because we believe it is necessary, apart from fair. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u191	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, thank you for the support of the parliamentary groups for this initiative by Agafan, the Galaga Association of Large Families, which the People's Parliamentary Group has made is the Parliamentary Group that has taken this initiative and has called for its inclusion on the agenda. Any parliamentary group in this House could have done it, but it was our group that called for its inclusion. We've already said why. Because we share it and, in addition, it is consistent with the policies of the Galician Union. I said it in my first intervention. This German family policy plan had already collected, in line with and coordination with all the entities working with the families in Galicia, the reduction of the VAT of certain services for families. On the other hand, you focus the debate not on the issue that we are interested in today, which is the need to ask the Government to reduce that VAT, but to focus their speech on whether the PP has increased the VAT, if it could have done so before the People's Party. I remind you of one thing. First, you're talking about the general VAT. Secondly, we are not going to talk now, in this debate, about why the VAT had to be increased, but we have to remind you that there is a European Union directive of the year 2006 prohibiting Member States from applying VAT less than 15% to babies' and other services in order to avoid price discrepancies between countries. Moreover, the European Union has sanctioned three countries for reducing the VAT of these services or baby clothing. And the European Commission, after a meeting with the countries, is when it begins to study the possibility of lowering the VAT for diapers and compresses. So you're wrong when you think that reducing EVI to a 4% over-reduced child and child leather is just a matter of a party's political will, but it's a question of a European directive. So what we want today is to thank Agafan for his work. Tell them we're absolutely in line with your initiative. And, of course, we thank you for supporting this initiative as well and finally reducing that VAT to 4% of children's and girls' skins. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores and D. Francisco Jesús Jorquera Caselas, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the establishment of a framework of labour relations and collective bargaining
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u194	All other groups have tabled amendments to this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u195	So, in order to defend it, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u196	Thank you, President. Good day to all and all. Quite contrary to what the President of the Board today proclaimed here, Nuñez Feijóo, that the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks are better protected by their management, the reality differs greatly from that statement. Today, the Galician Nationalist Block brings here an initiative that has been presented to us by the IGC - it has also been presented to the other political groups in this House - which is intended to play an active role in demanding and assuming the necessary competences for the economic and social development of Galicia itself and self-centred. The aim of this initiative is for this Parliament to declare the need for its own framework in labour relations; for this Parliament to declare the desire to defend the need for a German framework for labour relations; for a Greek framework for labour relations which implies that sectoral, provincial, autonomous or other higher level or company agreements are not only about the company agreement but also about the state. Agreements on specific matters, too. The structure agreements at Galicia level must prevail over those of a similar state level, which reinforces the guarantee of the unlimited ultraactivity of the collective agreement. That the sectoral conventions should have a basic right, so that no company agreement can establish conditions that are lower than those specified by the sectoral reference agreements, and that the German Parliament agrees to support the trade union or legislative initiatives which contribute to favouring and making this pronouncement viable. We do so because, of course, at the BNG we agree with this position of the IGC and we are very clear that our future cannot be in the hands of either the European Central Bank or the International Monetary Fund or the European Commission, but we must take responsibility for our future; that the German bank or the Spanish oligarchy cannot be the one who dictates the rules to benefit from the rights of the workers and workers in Greece. Our future has to be able to decide on it by the Greeks and the Greeks, and this Parliament, as a maximum expression of the sovereignty of these Greeks and the Greeks, believes that we must make a proclamation in this direction to defend that Greek framework of labour relations. The labour reforms that both would solve and both jobs would create, the only thing that they brought was the increase in temporality, precariousness, and what they brought was that the workers and workers in Greece work longer hours at less wages, work more and have less retirement; and, from the social point of view, they represent, of course, a historical regression in rights, in the standard of life, in exponentially increasing inequalities and poverty; work reforms that at the bottom of their object were to create this huge reserve army to use blackmail for those who are unemployed and also to be able to force those who still keep their jobs to take on worse working conditions. It's work reforms that have devastating effects on the Greek and the Greek workers. Of course, what we want with this initiative is to contribute to overcoming a reality, a reality in which any reference compared to the average state, of the Galician labour market, in terms of wages, precariousness, pensions, disability, employment or emigration, is negative for the working class in Galicia. And it reveals the evidence that there are structural factors that object to the current frame and that make it necessary to modify it. Within these consequences and the great damage to these labour reforms is the enormous reduction in collective bargaining. Collective bargaining is nothing but an agreement between parties, employers and workers and workers; an agreement to avoid conflict and give some degree of protection to the weakest part, to workers and workers. Collective bargaining is a tool, a basic tool for workers, to defend and improve their working conditions. These different labour reforms by the Spanish governments dynamite collective bargaining, led to greater facilities for the implementation of the conventions, privatization, priorityization of company agreements and state conventions, limitation of ultraactivity. In short, what they did was they left the working class much more unprotected. That is why this initiative requires this Parliament to make a statement of the need to go to that framework of work relations in which collective agreements have defence instruments for the working class, a German framework of labour relations to reflect the specificity of the work reality of Galicia, which, of course, is not the same as other parts of the Spanish State, to respond to Galicia's productive and social reality, to guarantee the labor and trade union rights of workers and workers in Greece, to promote decent working and wage conditions and to develop the normative development of Galicia's collective bargaining. We need this German framework of labour relations and that these conventions are negotiated in Galicia so as not to continue to depend on state conventions covering sectors, for example, very wide and unaffected to Galician reality. As an example, we can put the case of the chemical agreement, which includes such activities as paints, plastics, rubbers and at the same time the entire auxiliary sector of the automotive industry in Galicia. It makes no sense to agree on these characteristics. It is necessary to make an agreement in Galicia that responds to the needs and characteristics of these sectors in Galicia. Or the textile sector, where people are included in a small sewing workshop and those who develop their activity making seats for Citroën. It's a sense that these two different realities are in the same arrangement. Or it is the paradigmatic case of the conservatory agreement. In the conservatory agreement, who can take the head of a state agreement if Galicia represents between 70% and 80% of the workers, mainly workers, of the conservatory, who are in Galicia? How is it possible that you have to refuse an agreement that is negotiated in Madrid, an agreement where you do not know what the specificities or needs of the workers of the preserve in Galicia are? That is why it is necessary for this German framework of labour relations to prevent company agreements being signed below those of the sector. it takes a negotiated agreement in Galicia to reverse the change introduced with the labour reforms that ultraactivity is only one year old. This leaves workers and workers totally unprotected. It used to be the workers themselves who denounced the agreements to negotiate a new one, but never lost what had already been achieved in previous agreements. With the changes, if more than a year goes by without negotiating agreements--and obviously the employer tries to spend more of that year, it's the employer himself who denounces the agreements to have to negotiate others--they degrade all the improvements achieved, and the workers' Statute comes into force, which has, of course, few conditions of defence of workers and workers. I must therefore say that this Parliament is not merely a transmission belt of what is decided in Madrid. This Parliament must commit itself to the needs of the working class of Galicia, in this regard, to a framework of its own negotiation and labour relations, which it has done, which it has motivated, that in Galicia institutions and bodies such as the Economic and Social Council or the Galego Labour Relations Council were set up on that path. But there have been small steps given which, of course, are not enough, and not much less. This initiative is aimed at us being self-responsible and that Galicia, the German Parliament, the German Government, the workers and the Italian workers, have tools to boost work and decent wages. These labor reforms, cuts, loss of rights, precariousness, are neither idle words nor much less, but all the measures contained in them put at risk the life and safety of workers and workers. Its quality of life is to have a minimum of resources to face everyday life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u198	Of course, at the BNG we believe that there are still countless unemployment figures, which continue to be thousands of families in which no member is working, there are many, many, under the poverty line, many people who accept precarious working conditions, who agree to work longer hours and pay less, who agree to work overtime without charges and who do not require the security conditions that require legislation. And the consequences are in sight.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u200	Finished, President. Because I ask you a question: what self-defense capacity remains for a worker reduced to loneliness by renouncing the rights already won when the ultraactivity of the agreement ends? What self-defence capacity is left for individual negotiation in a company knowing that Galicia's business reality is that of the micro-enterprise mostly?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u202	What negotiating capacity will these workers and workers have in negotiating working conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u204	...after these work reforms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u205	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u206	...that they have to change? I look forward to the support of the House's groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u207	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u208	Thank you, President. As the exhibition part of the initiative presented by the BNG says, the latest labour reforms promoted during the years 2010, 2011 and 2012 by the governments of the Socialist Party and the People's Party, although with different levels of aggressiveness, have deepened the deregulation and precariousness of labour relations. The dismissal was facilitated and damaged, both collective and individual. If dismissal in the Spanish state was already free, it is now practically free. The contract was generalised in part-time; therefore, the working class was condemned to poverty. Collective bargaining has weakened through atomization, something that for Galicia is particularly harmful, since our country is a country of microenterprises, most of them with fewer than six workers and therefore without the right to union representation. If collective bargaining is geared towards the business area, we can already predict and make it clear that the Greek workers will be poorer, because they have no way of negotiating their agreements in conditions that are minimally balanced with employers. Plus, they should have union representation all the workers. There can't be allowed by law to be workers and workers who, because their company is a micro-enterprise, have no union representation. Substantial modification of working conditions and irregular distribution of the day has also been facilitated. The unemployment protection system has suffered cuts in the number of benefits and at the time of the benefits. The retirement age was delayed to 67 years, extending to 25 years the number of years needed to calculate the regulatory base. Access to early retirement delayed. Access to unemployment benefits has been blocked, delaying the age of 52 to 55 and setting economic limits on poverty. These are measures that impoverished the working class, hampered the world of work, decimated collective bargaining and limited the possibility of union action in the defence of labour and wage rights through union repression, police repression and the repression of the Government itself. These measures were imposed on the working class by decrees and repression that led to the prison to workers and workers--many of them in prison, many others waiting for a pardon that the People's Party was unable to grant them throughout the previous legislation--. The current framework is linked to the Greek socio-laboral reality, which shows differentiated structural problems to which no response is given at the state level. Salaries below the average of the state, precariousness and lack of opportunity, high rates of labour inequality and high rates of emigration of young people. The latest data on the collective bargaining activity published by the Galego Labour Relations Council reflect that they are already a minority of the agreements in which a wage review clause is collected linking the evolution of wages to inflation to ensure that the working class does not lose purchasing power. In November, only 15 % of the new agreements signed during the year collected that wage guarantee in Galicia. The percentage of workers and workers who are collected the right to their salary rise at least the same rate as the IPC is reduced in Galicia to only 11% of the total. We will therefore vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal, but we have tabled an amendment to make reality a Greek framework of labour relations with full legislative, regulatory and regulatory competences of participation in the world of work, in order to ensure decent working and wage conditions for the whole working class of Galicia; a Greek framework of labour relations that gives them the sectoral, provincial and autonomous conventions over any business agreement or the states that mark conditions below the autonomous or provincial conventions of Galicia. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative and hope that BNG will accept our amendment to create the German framework for labour relations. And I hope that the People's Party, which defends with nails and teeth the interests of the Greek entrepreneur and, of course, the interests of the Greek workers, would lack more, be the first to vote in favour of a Greek framework of labour relations and not continue to bet on its dependence on the state. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u210	Very good to all and all again. We will support this initiative. We tabled an amendment to partially amend one of the paragraphs, which I will then try to explain, because we believe it is essential in this country to defend labour relations and to defend an equal framework of labour relations which was dynamized by the People's Party; a People's Party that wants the labour relations to be based on the ability of the employer to extort their workers by two ways: first by the way of fear of unemployment and, secondly, by the way of legality, which allows almost anything can be done today in a job, since they are fired freely, almost free of charge, until they are caught by collective agreements or not complying with labour standards. There's no more to see that this is so, during last year, they've increased in a way certainly worrying the number of deaths in the workplaces. Why? Because already in this country you work at any price and under any condition. That's the reality of the labour market. And that's all because of that labor market that's got thousands of unemployed people pushing on the rights of those who keep their jobs. So it's necessary to contribute to resetting work relationships of equality, where people accessing jobs can defend their rights without being afraid to be fired. By the way, that flank also covered the People's Party with a morbid law that says that those who move can be sentenced to jail. And so we have hundreds of unionists, hundreds of workers, sentenced to jail simply for defending their labor rights in strikes or general strikes in this country and in the state as a whole. That's the perfect scenario that the People's Party wanted, to modify the labour market by a slave market where people have to expose and sell their bodies in order to be able to work. That's what we want to change, and I think this initiative goes absolutely on that line. The first thing we have to do is to overturn the two labour reforms, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, because they were the ones who eliminated these labor rights, because--that they were, in addition, the ones who helped to make companies be the law of the jungle and where there is no kind of right. The first thing we have to call into question is that labour reform which allows the dismissal, or the labour reform of the People's Party, which not only undermines the dismissal but also makes the worker himself contribute to paying for his dismissal. I mean, in this country, there is no longer any need to justify the causes of firing a person for economic reasons, but it is that, in addition, the worker himself, through his contributions to the funds, for example, how Fogasa will contribute to the payment of his dismissal with those contributions he has made during his working life. The second question that needs to be put on the table is that we have to regain public control over EREs in this country. The procedures for the termination of collective employment no longer have public control; therefore, there is no need for public authorization so that a collective dismissal can be made in a company. And so we're faced with massive ERE fraud, not just redundancy, but day-to-day reduction. I'd like this country to take seriously, once and for all, an initiative like this: why don't we control each of the companies that, by means of an ERE, reduce their schedule, but the workers keep working twice as hard as their day, and paying that day with their contributions, for example, of unemployment? That's the reality of the People's Party, a deregulated labour market where what excels is the law of the jungle and the imposition of what has the most capacity, which is always the employer against the small worker or the individual worker. Labour relations have also eliminated, through these two reforms, the ability that a person has to represent himself through the works councils or from union representation. Today it's very difficult for a worker to step into union responsibility, because even the licenses he may have on account of that union representation can be taken into account for that dismissal, which takes into account the percentage of days he no longer works, even if they are legal, through casualties or through his union representation. But we must not forget another reform that the People's Party has made which is always hidden when we talk about employment, which is the reform of competition law. The competitive law is a barbarity in labor terms, because competitive law, for example, causes, when there is a collective dismissal or collective debt due to a company's tendering process, the labor rights of that worker are not discussed in the social court, which is the one who defends social issues, the labour issues, but rather is discussed in a commercial trial, as if he were a creditor and he had nothing to see his position as a worker in the company or his position as a person who was able to create the employee also in prison, because for there are businesses not only to be entrepreneurs, there must also be workers. So we're talking about a lot of reforms that are absolutely damaging to our labour market, but they're ultimately harmful to our workers. And so, for example, as in this country, after all these reforms, if you lose your job, you lose your wages, and you have to, despite what the [...] president of this country says that you create your job, it results... [[By order of the President and by the way of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure this is taken away from the Journal of Sessions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u211	That expression is not correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u212	It looked like me already.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u213	Man, please! That expression is withdrawn and I won't call it in order because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u214	No, no, he's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u215	We're in the last rounds and I don't want to kick anyone out. That expression is withdrawn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u216	It can be a card player, a domino player, as they call it. What we need to hear is that I'm called these things to say it has noses. It doesn't matter. I'm going to give you a date, because I think it's important when it comes to employment. Since the People's Party arrived in the Government of Galicia, of the 46.13 million hours worked each week in this country, it's been 35 million hours worked. So, since the People's Party ruled, in working hours, 253,000 jobs have been lost. That's the data of the People's Party, it doesn't create work, it destroys the little work that there is and divides the crumbs between those who are in the queues of unemployment. So it's time for the president to take note that things don't happen that way and that we have to regain the rights of the workers of this country. Nothing else and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u217	Thank you for removing the expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u218	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. The Socialist Group, first of all, wants to move forward, Mrs Prado Cores, which we agree on in all the points that the proposal relates to non-law except in paragraph 2(a) if there is a possibility of voting on points, we would not vote on that point, and the others would vote in favour. In any case, we present an amendment to what you will tell us. relevant that, from the labour reform of the People's Party, the labor conditions of workers and workers in this country and the Spanish state have significantly worsened. The national conventions improved the working conditions set out in the law, such as the Staff Regulations of Workers, and the self-employed had to improve the working conditions of the national conventions, the provinces improved the autonomy and the business conditions of the provinces. From this work reform everything changes, and companies can take off with less beneficial agreements than the autonomics or the state. Among other things, what introduces labour reform - I believe that already in this rostrum was commented by Mr. Fajardo - is not only the aspect of ultraactivity, which is something that radically harms workers; that is, the elimination of the maintenance of the vigency of an agreement. Until the People's Party's Government, companies applying reductions in working conditions through substantive modification could not do so under the wages conditions that marked the collective agreement. From this reform in 2013 can be done; the same case as was previously reported by the Competition Law. Thus, the work reform of 2012 met the goal of the People's Party Government, which was that wages are lower and the business surplus is higher. It justified the People's Party, which was a way of activating the economy, activating the economy at the cost of the sacrifice of workers and workers. But what we see is that this effort was absolutely not worth any effort at all. The consequences of this reform are that at home we spend some 3,500 million less and that this country's wealth has been reduced by some 3,260 million. Tell us the PP that, if there's a higher business surplus, there'll be a higher investment. Over the years it has been shown that this is absolutely a lie. The investment's down. So why did it serve the sacrifice of so many workers? Maybe the question is wrong and the question has to be: Who did these sacrifices serve? Why is this reform that laminates the rights of workers and workers, which distorts collective bargaining, which ceases to be negotiation to be tax and which ceases to be collective in order to be unilateral? The current situation on the labour market, although obviously there is a problem with the crisis, not only has to do with the economic crisis but, for the right-wing politics, the economic crisis has served as a justification for changing the conditions and rights of workers and workers. A legislative action that intended, on the one hand, to lower wages, increase the insecurity of the worker--at the moment when there is fear, it is much easier to worsen the working conditions without an answer from the workers--and to distort the negotiating capacity that the workers and workers had. It was basically the goal of this labour reform, which in many cases is justified by the crisis. And not denying the crisis, what is true is that a right-wing policy makes a way to worsen the living conditions and working conditions of the workers of this country and to benefit from the conditions of companies. Wages are, from labour reform, around 12% lower than the state average in Galicia, one of the lowest counties in all autonomous communities. And if we talk about a working day, we work more to charge less than the Spanish average. The crisis and popular policies have increased social differences.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u221	Here we are, that's what the legislative policies on the right are bringing in, and of course we have to correct them. Mr. President, since I'm a teacher, I don't mind anyone speaking in the room, what happens is that, well, I was expecting a little less tone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. This is complicated, everyone bothers when they talk. But it's good that we all apply it. Everything bothers, in that I agree, because there's to be there, and noise is great. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u223	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative is a manifesto in defense of the existence of a collective negotiation exclusively in Galicia, an initiative which the IGC presented to the various parliamentary groups a week after the BNG had registered it. I think they could conceal a little, Mrs. Prado Cores. We know that you are loyal to the will of this union, but you could expect me to speak to the other groups to register your initiative as well, which is the literal document presented by the IGC. We understand his fidelity to the IGC, of course. We understand less that of the socialists, who, after that meeting, also recorded an initiative identical to the document they gave us. But my surprise, in view of today's debate before the IGC in this Parliament - a union undoubtedly relevant to Galicia but which does not cease to be a third of the union representation of our community - is that socialists, who already have an identical bill, come and present a four-line amendment. We move from three points to a three-line amendment where neither the word "agreement" nor "collection" appears. I mean, they're making a whole amendment to themselves. I think it's time for the socialists to find themselves, and that's how they're going. Our group, however, maintains as amended the same proposal that we have registered once since our meeting with this union. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that it is necessary to regain the role and strengthening of collective bargaining and to advocate for solid labour relations that will enable us to create the conditions appropriate to the new context of economic growth. This is also the concern of the German Government and so it reflects on the new roadmap, the Agenda 20 for Employment, where collective bargaining is a central axis in the desire to act to create a higher quality job in Galicia. But, unlike you, we believe that it must be done from the point of view of the autonomy and independence of the negotiating tables for their self-organization. Because it is the Greek social partners who must negotiate to improve the content of the conventions, those who must reach a framework agreement in Galicia and those who must resolve, through mediation, the conflicts that occur in the negotiations. Because it's true that negotiation requires the active participation of the working party, of course yes, but also of the business side. It draws attention to references to the need for any collective negotiation to take place in the exclusively Greek field, since this is not what UGT-Galicia and Workers' Commissions want, only asks the IGC. That's why I understand that the PSdEG had made a whole amendment to itself. We must remember that the two majority unions and the Confederation of Entrepreneurs signed the collective bargaining agreement a year ago setting the structure of collective bargaining throughout the state. This is what most trade union and business want in Spain and Galicia. To vote against this agreement in this Parliament is to go against what most of the union and business representation wants, which are the ones that negotiate. We must remember that there are state, autonomous, provincial and business agreements, and there are rules in the Staff Regulations of Skill-sharing Workers that must be respected. And points 2(a) and 2(c) are contrary to this regulation. Negotiation in the business sector doesn't have to be bad for itself. Actually, it's the company's closest and it can improve, as it does, regulation of sector agreements. However, it can and should enhance the German framework of labour relations, but respecting the legal framework and the agreements that have trade unions and employers. In this sense, we are working on the part of the Greek unions and the CEG to reach a framework agreement in Galicia. So if we accept our amendment, Parliament can join in encouraging the social partners to persevere and reach an agreement, and to improve the content and negotiating structure and to enhance equality and wage improvement in agreements but always respecting the areas which the law and themselves establish. And then, to finish, a point with respect to the ultraactivity of the conventions. The ultraactivity of the conventions is to which the negotiators agree in each agreement. Only one year is limited if they do nothing about it. They are the ones who have the toughest agreement and its content, Mrs. Prado. It is surprising that the BNG, as a company, in its collective agreement after labour reform had reduced the ultraactivity of its agreement to less than a year. It is reflected in the BOE of May 10, 2013. Seventy-five percent of the agreements signed indicate that they are still in force until a new one is signed. This is the writing that was before the job reform and that today is perfectly legal. But the BNG, instead of opting for this option - as 75% of the conventions do - preferred to apply this bad work reform so badly that it always calls for a derogation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u225	Thank you, President. First, I would like to clarify to Mrs Romero, who seems to be unaware that the IGC has asked for a meeting of all parliamentaryly represented groups in this Parliament. Each group was granted that meeting when it considered it appropriate. The BNG gave it that meeting, made its own initiative because we agree with it - as well as with many other initiatives from many of this country's collectives - and presented the initiative. I don't know what's wrong with Mrs. Romero on that matter, I don't know what's wrong with her. [[Murmurs.]] Look, by going to the issue, we cannot of course accept the amendment of the People's Party, because it says everything remains as it is. It is quite true and it is clear that there are those who feel very comfortable being delegates and transmission belts of what they decide on other sides. In the BNG, of course, we do not resign ourselves to the decision of others by us, we do not resign ourselves to be governed by foreign interests, and we do not accept the role of submission neither of civil servants nor of delegates from what Madrid says. And this initiative is what it requires to create the framework and the scenario that allows Galicia to be the one that marks the rules on the issues affecting the Greeks and the Greeks, it seems quite obvious. That is why we cannot accept the amendment of the Socialist Party, because nothing has to do with moving forward in this German framework of labour relations. Of course, the BNG has on numerous occasions called for the repeal of labour reforms, but this is not the case and, of course, it is not substituteable for this issue. If we're going to accept the amendment of the Joint Group, because if you go in this direction. Of course, we regret that this Parliament, where the sovereignty of the people of Greece resides, does not want to take any step in the direction that this sovereignty becomes right, and in rights for the working class of Galicia, which is obvious -- as I said before, and we go to any kind of item that we want to go -- that the situation of the working class of Greece is less than the state's average. Some people feel comfortable in that reality, some don't want to change anything from that normative framework to make it precisely the Greeks and the Greeks that we self-responsibility, which is what this initiative calls for. And I also believe - if someone does not read it carefully - that you have nothing illegal, Mrs. People's Party, because what you say is that this Parliament agrees as a resolution a declaration of will. This Parliament declares its willingness to walk towards a German framework of labour relations, where the defence of a German framework of labour relations implies that sectoral agreements are not that free bar that employers have at present. Where, of course, they denounce the agreements because in the year of that complaint, if they fail to reach agreement - and, of course, they do so because at the end of the year they do not reach agreement -...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u227	...for workers and workers not only move forward but step back, because they are left without the rights negotiated in the previous agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u228	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u229	Are you comfortable in that situation? Clearly, the workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u230	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u231	...and working Germans are the ones who lose in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u232	Mrs. Prado--I'm sorry, perhaps it was my fault--I didn't hear anything about the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u233	No, indeed. Nor are we going to accept it, because what this initiative precisely demands is the prevalence of the Greek framework, which is that and not the state framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We continue with another non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil and 14 other Members, on the request by the Government of Galicia to the Councils of the Coruña, Lugo, Santiago de Compostela, Vigo and Ourense for the adoption of the necessary measures during 2016 to extend the free urban transport to children under the age of 18
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u235	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u236	Mr. Goldar has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all - afternoon already, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group today brings the debate in this House with a non-legislative proposal that we are convinced it will have the unanimous support of its lordships. As long as, of course, they agree with us on the importance of what is intended to be adopted, that is, to continue to improve the quality of life of the Galicians and the Greeks, to whom we all represent, and, in particular, in this case, that of young Greeks under the age of 18. Ladies and gentlemen, as we say in the explanatory statement accompanying the proposal they already know, last May 12th, the President of the Galician Union announced publicly, after his approval by the Government Council, the launching of a new measure of a marked social character, which will consist of the implementation of the free interurban metropolitan transport for minors and minors under the age of 18. The Government of Galicia aims to achieve a number of objectives with the implementation of this measure, among which the aim is to ensure a better future for children and children and young people in Greece, to promote the use of public transport and accessibility to it, to help the economy of families with minors, which is added to the existing bonuses, which involve medium savings of around 600 euros a year, and additional bonus to numerous families, which reduces prices between 20 % and 50 % according to the number of children they have. But it also aims to educate children and children, and girls and boys, in the use of public transport. I don't know if Mr. Gallego wants to intervene too. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the application of this new social measure, with an annual investment of EUR 2 million by the Government of Greece, which will be possible to finance thanks to the additional resources available to Galicia for the fulfilment of the deficit, will assume that around 250,000 young Greek girls under the age of 18 can benefit from it. It will also have special relevance for girls and boys of non-compulsory teaching in which school transportation - as their lords know - is not free. In this way, the free movement to educational centres is now extended to 18 years of age and the free movement of transport in other usual displacements. And this will be a reality next September. The measure also has - as we say - a clear educational component. It aims to promote more sustainable mobility among the younger, conscious of the advantages of using public transport against the private vehicle and the benefits it has for our environment. However, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group believes that the implementation of this important measure in the field of what the Galician Union has competence - that is, on the interurban metropolitan transport of the areas of the Coruña, Ferrol, Lugo, Santiago, Vigo and Ourense - should be complemented by its extension to the area of urban transport, in which the municipalities have exclusive and exclusive competence. This is what the council of Ourense has already understood, that it has implemented a similar measure in its municipal regulation of the fee for the provision of the collective transport service, in which it envisages the card "Millenio Thursday", at a cost of zero euros for Thursdays from 16 to 18 years. But, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few weeks, in which a similar motion has been debated in the various town halls, it doesn't seem like helping young gals and young gales go a long way with one of their mutual colleagues. And those, young people and girls, and their families, must know if they don't already know. The results achieved in the vote on these motions are therefore significant and very clarifying. In Coruña, In Marea-Podemos, BNG and PSOE abstained; the PP voted in favour, and was approved. In Santiago de Compostela, the PP voted in favour, Compostela Open-Pode against and PSOE and BNG abstained; it was approved, but by the demonstrations made by local government members in the sense of "we have to look at it", "we will have to see whether it is included or not", or expressions of this kind, gives the feeling that they will not comply with the plenary mandate. In Lugo we will know tomorrow, Thursday, the result - which is when the municipal plenary will be held -. And finally in Vigo, Mr. Gallego, the PP and the Vigo tide voted in favour and the PSOE against, by which this motion was rejected. In short, ladies and gentlemen, for The Tides - those who fortunately ceased to be alive to begin to lower the ratio of 11,000 waves less each month - who are the chosen ones to save this oppressed world, as all well know, it seems that Thursdays under the age of 18 - just as they do not vote - do not count either. Except for the Vigo Tides, of course, they must be braver than the others and they voted in favour, perhaps because they do not rule. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, PSOE and BNG vote for abstention where they don't rule, and Vigo's PSOE votes against precisely because they rule. [[Applause]] And the Tides of Podemos vote against where they rule and in favor of where they don't. Let's go, that no one understands, of course. [[Murmurs.]] Or what's the same, ladies and gentlemen - and seriously - is what takes away from this galimaties is that the PP is the only party that is clearly in favour of this social measure, and the others abstain or vote against depending on where the wind of the governments turns. However, you have today, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility of really correcting these serious mistakes - of involuntary insurance, we have no doubt - of your fellow citizens in these cities by voting in favour of this non-law proposition. That would be a good amendment to this proposal. The picture coming out here will make it clear what position each person is in, and surely those portrayed in it who decide to follow their municipal groups will bring them many electoral receipts, much better, than last Sunday's, where they will stop! I leave for the second shift our position on the amendments presented. Nothing else for now, and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Goldar. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u239	Thank you, President. Good day again. It makes me quite funny. I had it in mind, Mr. Goldar, but, well, we're right now with propaganda, propaganda, propaganda. The Union - as it is customary - at this point in this legislate stage, announces and again announces the famous "superior of irresponsibility," right? Where were you, after almost eight years of legislation, at those times of economic crisis where there was no concern about community service or the social conditions of people? Yes, electoralist measure. We already know that the local PP groups in the main cities of Greece have just submitted these proposals. You guys throw a hot potato. You accuse others of irresponsibility. You see how the accounts are in most municipal archives. Obviously, the measure, so, first, who will reject it? But it's a small, incomplete measure, and you know it. And they're also in a lot of trouble for him to do the job now. They want to have it for the next elections. We must reflect on these types of subsidies. I would, of course, support right now that the measure was free, but not only for those under the age of 18. He knows that there are many social groups who also deserve a look at these kinds of measures. It is urgent, very urgent, to promote social policies of public transport. We are going to have many years' delay with regard to European collective transport policies. Yes, too, the rates must be more competitive with regard to the use of the private car. On the other hand, we are also awaiting the Law on urgent measures for the updating of Galicia's public transport system, and also what is going to be the future Public Transport Plan in Galicia, where many of the measures to be discussed in this non-law proposal should be reflected, such as the empowerment of quality public transport that responds to the mobility needs of the population, which represents an important environmental benefit that results in benefits to the individual and collective economy, better environmental quality of our cities, improved traffic, parking, and which makes it possible to reduce the use of the private vehicle and also to improve road safety. But you speak of quantity right now, but you must also offer quality service. What about all these disabled people who have to travel in private or taxi vehicles? Why do they not have access measures to public transport itself? Where's Joina's concern? Where is it - for example -? It's necessary to pretend in the famous social grant and to make improvements especially to the people who study, to the people who work; even a social bonus for those people who use public transport as the only transport option. This area of application should be throughout the territory of Galicia, the improvement of collective public transport for all transport operators. I would advise you to take note of many of the models implemented in Europe. Yes, we have in France, for example, the employees, who also have very substantial improvements with respect to the fare; especially for the prices of the allowance, which are the transport subsidies, which is one of the great bees here. If it is true that it is implanted in some municipalities, but it should be reflected at the homogeneous level. Therefore, the Joint Group submits a replacement amendment, which I hope it will take into consideration, like the other amendments of the groups of this House, where it is proposed to request - yes, to the municipalities - a timetable for this deployment, an implementation which should also make the Board of Galicia throughout the territory, its own bonus for these users, to favour public transport, which is very competitive in relation to the use of the private vehicle, and that the Board itself - because it is the only one who can and should do so, because it is responsible for boosting public transport of quality - that it responds to the mobility needs of the population, the factor of social cohesion - there is the question -, offering redistribution to different means of transport, which represents an important environmental benefit. Gentlemen, don't give us alms. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u241	Good morning. Mr. Goldar, humor is not your best record. The truth is, he tried to be funny, but he didn't make much fun. But it's good that they cheer up a little, it's good that they cheer up a little bit with those considered empirical victories and claim Mariano Rajoy's results, when a few months ago they escaped from it as from the plague. It's good for them to claim. But, as Mr. Rajoy would say, "Don't hunt the skin before you sell it." We'll see, Mr. Goldar, we'll see, we'll see what happens in autumn, we'll see. Don't throw rockets before time. You've come here to talk about the little social that are the politics of the Tide. They have a value...! And that they have a value...! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they have the courage to speak of the Tides...! When the Tides arrived at the government, a group of citizens arrived at the government that took a step forward. And without their resources, without their powerful friends, without money, "b of Operation Zeta who financed them, they threw them at you from the governments. That was only possible because of the degree of corruption and antisocial politics that you have carried out in governments. It would not be possible otherwise for humble, resourceless people to throw out the all-powerful People's Party of these municipalities. The People's Party comes to give lessons in social policy, a measure of record of a marked social character, after seven years of marked antisocial character, as social was the network of Gürtel, Pokémon, Pikachu, Operation Taula, the distribution of black money that they made among the directors, who did not have enough with their wages and had to charge it over every month, because, if not, life was very hard--that of Mrs. Ana Mato--. The party of the reduction of aid to the dependency, that people who charged 400 euros of dependency aid had ended up with you paying 48 euros, the party of fiscal amnesty to their friends - very sociable - the party of thousands of unanswered evictions, rescuing banks, rescuing businesses, buying them the toxic assets of real estate, the party of corruption, has now come to teach us lessons. The party of the increase in inequality - since you govern tax reforms to favour those above, your friends, and to tax the workers indirectly, raise the VAT, raise taxes, raise taxes, raise taxes on immovable property, and so forth, which makes this country the last seven years the most impoverished of the history of democracy - comes here to teach. All right, let's talk about transport. And it is also true that, after seven years of forgetting the group of boys and girls, three months before an autonomous election, you agree to take some action; some measure announced, they haven't yet put a euro. But they announced a measure for free in the interurban transport of people under the age of 18. It's very nice of us. They'll look much better when they give them continuity and when they put euros in the budgets. For now, they've only announced it-- causality, right? - Seven years later. Of course, you say that because we meet the deficit. Yes, of course, because of their policy of being champions of austerity, that's why what happened to the sick of hepatitis C, that's why we destroyed twice as much employment as the state average, so we lost more wealth in terms of GDP than the state average, and so Galicia lost 80,000 people since Mr. Feijóo's rule, because they were the champions of austerity. That's right, then advertising and propaganda. But, well, remember that. We think it's all right, a measure in the right direction. They should also have an integral plan, talk about a nearby train, have an attitude like that we have when you present an initiative that seems reasonable to us. For example, they have never supported our initiative in favour of the proximity train. Why? What arguments did they give? Well, we, on the other hand, do make a constructive policy, and we present amendments. Look, look at us very well, what happens is that you've lost the government of the Town Councils, you don't rule. And what they can't pretend is to rule from here, or from San Caetano, the government of the Coruña, the government of Compostela, the government of Ferrol or the government of Vigo. You don't rule, you take it first, and you talk about it the same way with these municipalities. Negotiations. Because, of course, it's very easy to come here and say a measure urging them to put free service to those under the age of 18. But who's going to pay are the Town Councils. Who's going to pay for the city halls, right? And the municipalities have their tariff policies and their contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u242	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u243	At least, we have to talk to the municipalities, talk to the municipalities, and the Galician Union co-finances. Because, unlike you, there are municipalities here that have put many millions of euros in public transport, they didn't start in the months before the election. Because the Vigo Town Hall thinks it puts 11.8 million euros a year on public transport, right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u245	And you come to teach him lessons after four years by putting 11 million euros in municipal budgets. And you come to teach without a single euro. That way, yes, sir, we didn't pass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u246	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. For the Socialist Group this initiative of the People's Group clearly shows the cynicism, the Pharisees, the territorial sectarianism and the frivolity with which Mr. Feijóo's government exercises its responsibilities. Pure and hard electoral populism. Because, let's see, this initiative has its basis in the agreement of the Council of the Union that approved the free transport of metropolitans for all girls and boys under 18 years of age, and affects the metropolitan areas of the Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Lugo, Vigo and the future of Ourense - announced and not underway -. I mean, the minors resident in the 76 municipalities with metropolitan transport lines will be entitled - according to the announcement - to use it without paying. Only young people and girls living in the suburbs of six of the seven big cities have this right. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, can you explain, or, rather, can you explain to the boys and girls of the 239 municipalities excluded from this right why they are discriminated against by the Government of the People's Party? They, precisely the ones who suffered most with the governments of the People's Party the cuts, payments and reparations in their educational stage. They and they, who, because of their condition of living in the countryside, have greater distances and therefore higher costs of tickets to move in public transport. Look, a very simple example: from Verín to Ourense, 65 kilometers, the ticket costs 6,60 euros; for the young man or girl who lives in a metropolitan area next to a city, around a city, only 1 euro. And you punish what you pay 7.6 euros, which has the services further and the possibility to travel further. I mean, if they make the full trip, they pay 15.20 euros, they're excluded by their resolution or approval. These same boys, these same boys and girls, the oldest of them at 18 years of age, have therefore been seven years old to support the policies of the People's Party in education. Besides, it's good to remember, it's good to remember what has been discriminated against. Look, they suppressed school units, they suppressed them, they got them teachers, they got them in the dining rooms, they lowered their scholarships, they got them down, they got them out of their free textbooks. Why are they again punished by excluding them from this gratuitousness? Free metropolitan transport for all girls and young people under the age of 18 who reside in 76 municipalities. Mr. Goldar, does your group amend the president's argument to suppress the freeness of textbooks in schools? Because I'm going to remind you, I think we should remember, the argument Mr. Feijó gave from his chair when he said it wasn't fair that the freeness of textbooks had been for all the same. I remind you of what he said: "You will not tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what is fair that the grandchildren of Mr. Amancio Ortega or the children of the Members or Members we are sitting here may have free books like the children of a long-term unemployed or the children of a family at risk of social exclusion? I don't think that's fair." That's what he said. Does your group therefore renounce this argument to apply it to metro transport - polythane? Have you changed your criteria? Populism and propaganda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in this drift they want to drag the city councils by giving a bad example of institutional respect, coordination and collaboration. Mr. Feijóo's free bar and, yes, they pay the cities. In the meantime, he renounces exercising his powers also in freeness to all urban transport, which I remind him of affecting 239 municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u249	You reflected on the positions of the socialist groups in the different municipalities. But let's see, do you know the situation of each council with respect to what they apply in urban transport and the economic and financial possibilities they have in order to be able to endure it? The PP has the same position in cities to ask for free without a euro, where they have no competence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u250	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u251	But the People's Party also has the same position to exclude from gratuity the young men and women living in these 239 municipalities. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u252	Yes, stop, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u253	Ladies and gentlemen, discrimination and an attack on municipal autonomy. Our amendment is only intended to bring cordura in this sense; i.e. to negotiate, collaborate and coordinate with cities. And finished the way I started.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u254	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u255	Mr. Goldar, electoral populism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u256	Thank you, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u257	... full of pharisaisms [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u259	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u260	For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u261	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on this proposal we have seen a new chapter in the curious reinterpretation made by the Group of the People's Party of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. We're already used to the fact that government control sessions are converted by the Popular Group into opposition control sessions. Now the work of boosting the Government of the Union - another of the functions that this Parliament has - is also converted by the People's Group into work of boosting municipal governments. We also saw a new chapter in the electoral pre-campaign of the People's Party. First, Galician Union announces the free transport of metropolitan transport to under 18 years of age, as it is part of a social package. After it's been parked for four years, now that elections are finally approaching, it finally deepens the social sensibility of the Government of Galician Union. And before the Galician Union takes effect this measure in its field of competence, the PP is launching motions in the councils and this proposal in Parliament urging the municipalities to do the same without even having an institutional dialogue of the Galician Union with them, and assuming the municipalities their economic cost without co-financing by the Galician Union. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, which is clear: the Galego Nationalist Block is in favour of free metropolitan transport for those under 18 years of age, including urban transport, which is clear. But we cannot vote in favour of this proposal in accordance with what is put forward. First of all, because the Union has not established any dialogue with the municipalities or any commitment by the Galician Union to contribute to the financing of this measure. Secondly, because you were the ones who said it wasn't fair that it was free for both the children of the unemployed and the children of an MP. Don't you remember this argument? Mr. Raúl Fernández just remembered it in his speech. They used hundreds of times to justify, for example, ending the freeness of textbooks, ignoring that teaching is a public service, universal and free of charge, paying for textbooks against this principle, and that the income criteria for which they are to be established are in taxes, lords of the People's Party, to finance public services very well. And now you forget your own arguments in order to oppose the municipalities. We can't vote in favour of this proposal in terms of which it is formulated, because the board would do better to deal with matters of its competence, especially if we talk about transport, Mr. Goldar. Because your balance in transport policies in the four years of this legislation is zero. Not to mention the disguise that led to the extension of the 129 public transport concessions of ten years. In the field of its competence, for example, the Galician Union could establish free public transport for unemployed persons. That would be a social measure. But, on the other hand, Galician Union doesn't. Or, since we're talking about boys, I could re-establish the Night Bus. Look, these days we know that you're picking up the number of young people who die in traffic accidents on our roads, one more reason for Junta to reboot the Nightbus services that you've decided to suppress. But no, you prefer to use this Parliament to oppose the opposition and to open up the electoral precaution. Well, look, that's why BNG doesn't contain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u262	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Goldar. Give your voice to the scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, the comical viz tells you that it's not my best record, just like the drama isn't his best record either. But perhaps in view now, for example, of the cover of La Voz de Galicia, which says, "Open crisis in Galicia among the leaders of La Marea," perhaps to traximedia if it would be a proper term for what happens in your group. And it won't be me, Mr. Sánchez, who talks here about whether you tried it or not, Mr. Pérignon or Vega Sicilia, who forgot to quote it right now when he spoke about Operation Pokémon. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I certainly haven't tried either. [[Applause]] But going to the point, which is our obligation... it's a laugh, Mr. Fajardo, you can laugh at everything you want, which may well... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. President, if you let me continue...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u264	Yes, they did. Ladies and gentlemen, silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u265	If you leave me, if the kindness of these fellow Members allows me, I would like to talk about the position of our group on the amendments tabled by the various opposition groups. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to the Joint Group's submission, I will tell you, Madam Voicer, that, with regard to the bonus of ordinary users, the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan already includes, today, a recurring bonus for people who travel more than 40 trips a month, returning 15% of the interurban transport expenditure. It does not, therefore, proceed from our point of view to include something which has already been put in place by the Government of Galicia. You also propose that, in both urban and interurban transport, discounts be established for all collectives. And in this sense, let me remind you that the Metropolitan Transport Plan with more than 11 displacements per year is being subsidized by more than 80 % by the Galician Union, offering discounts of more than 600 euros per year to users in its use, in addition to the discounts to regular users, mentioned above, of 15 %, or of the discount to large families, ranging from 20 % to 50 % depending on the number of children; and, as we have just said, from the free urban transport to minors. In addition, as regards the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, I would like to say to you, Mr Fernández, Sir, that the current Government of Galicia wants to promote in the light of its competence the use of public transport, indeed, education in the employment of it and to help families through this measure of free metro transport for young people up to 18 years old. We are, of course, pleased to see that the PSdeG agrees with this measure, which considers it to be positive. So we hope to promote it in the municipalities where it governs and also there in which it supports other government formations. What this group cannot accept is what the Socialist and AGE Group proposes so that it be the Union that pays for this measure and so that the municipalities do not assume their own competences in urban transport. It is the councils, ladies and gentlemen, who must also assume their responsibility and finance the extension of this measure to urban transport of their competence--I insist--exclusive and exclusive, if they are really interested in taking measures for the sake of Galician boys and girls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u267	And if they finally decide, in the use of their freedom, don't do it, responsibility will be unique and exclusively theirs. Then they didn't notice that the initial illusion that they might have generated if they were to go back to really fast steps in absolute disappointment, as we just checked 72 hours ago. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u268	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Next proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You were in the debate. No, but I was in the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I was in the debate. No, no, Mr. Sánchez, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Regulation. You were in the debate. It doesn't work. It doesn't work. The following proposal is made by the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Da María Carmen Adán Villamarín... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Gallego? [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] It was a minimal reference to you. It was a minimal reference. [[Murmurs.]] I was careful and, indeed, mentioned it... actually mentioned it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Gallego, you have been mentioned. You've been mentioned. Would you like a minute? You have one minute, you have only one minute, Mr. Gallego, because it was nothing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u269	Mr. Spokesman of the People's Party, it's very nice to advertise and advertise with the money of others, that's very nice out there.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u270	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u271	But I'll tell you something. The Vigo Town Hall spends more public transport than the Galician Board, 11 million pays the Vigo Town Hall for public transport, 11 million. Moreover, the exclusive competition in metropolitan transport is from Galician Union. And now I'm going to give you a data, so you can take it into account. Look, the Vigo Town Hall has a social card, has a green card, has a pensioner's and retirees' card and has a bonus card...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u272	Thank you, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u273	...for young people [...].
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u274	Thank you, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u275	And that's the cost of Vigo Town Hall, not Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u277	It has exclusive competence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u278	Thank you, Mr. Gallego. See if you're encouraging the mayor of Vigo to give it to the orensans who are going to the hospital. You've been put in there, for asking, we've asked for that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's okay. [[Strong murmurers.]] Sorry, it's okay. It's okay. To the Romanians who go to the reference hospital. I'm referring to the Englishmen who go to the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, of reference. [[Murmurs.]] It's just a proposal, don't take it wrong. The joke's over. [[Strong murmurers.]] No, in allusions there is no replica, no, no replica. No, no, in allusions there is no replica. Let's close here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's a complicated time. We close, there's no replica. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and two other Members, on the realization by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and the Alcoa jobs in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u279	There were no amendments to this proposal. You have the floor, for your defense, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u280	Yes, thank you very much, President. Before we begin, a little reflection. I don't know if it's a good idea not to stop to eat in the full. We're suffering, I think, a drop of sugar, or other food, and we're really... I want to begin by greeting the workers who accompany us and also those who come on the way, who for a short time are still on the way and will not be able to be present in the House to follow this initiative, which deals with three important issues, three subjects that we have discussed on repeated occasions in the German Parliament: employment, industry and energy. Just the situation at this time of Alcoa, the Alcoa plants, both in the Coruña and in San Cibrán, collect these three elements; i.e., possible loss of workers and workers, a very important job for Galicia, an industrial sector that can be damaged - as we have seen in the last seven years about the Galician industry - and a last paragraph, which is the permanent debate that we have about the energy situation in Galicia. And I want to remember that we have right now in the freezer, or sleeping in the sleep of the righteous, the ILP promoted by the IGC on this subject, a Welsh electric tariff, a special tariff for industry and on energy poverty. Only in order to frame the debate, a fact you probably know, ladies and gentlemen, but it is important to open the debate on Alcoa. Alcohol was consolidated in the Spanish state after a sale of the National Aluminium Company, Inespal, which was absolutely ruinous to the state because it meant losses, it was a loss sale. Also, if I'm allowed a footnote, it was something like what happened with the entire Greek financial system, which was literally gifted. So it was given to Inespal, and Alcoa did not meet the commitments linked to that purchase. I mean, it was a gift purchase and, besides, these commitments were not fulfilled, which then, if we have time in the replica, we can explain them. The situation now is: 400 workers in the Coruña, 1,300 in Lugo and 600 jobs - more or less thus calculated - auxiliary. And all the doubts about the possibility of selling Alcoa and hoping that in September, in October or yet we don't know when, it's the next posse. And what is the Government's performance? Today we look forward to the People's Party's explanation. I want to remember that, as we have said on many occasions, Alcoa is a great consumer of energy. 45% of manufacturing costs are costs of what you pay in power, electricity. And the workers themselves have just sent a letter to Mr. Feijóo - who have also made public through a Greek media - in which they point out that the fundamental problem is the tariff system, the electricity system that the Spanish State currently has, which we have also debated and criticized on repeated occasions. First - and I'm going to assume the points as explained by the company committee of Alcoa itself - the Board should assume to be an investor partner in this situation, and it should already be, from the Industry Council, now ensuring as soon as possible to realize a basic question, which is when it's going to be the next posse, if it's going to be in September, if it's going to be in October... Because it is necessary to maintain, at least, towards 2017... i.e. to speed up the momentum by the interruptability of 2016, of which the Ministry - the ministry in which, I want to remember, is at that time Minister Soria - said nothing. I mean, this is absolutely necessary. The third point is the Galician electric tariff. And today there's a news that I think it's important that we read it carefully. It's on the cover of The Energy Journal. It's digital. You can enter, visit, and you can see: "Rajoy will offer PSOE, Citizens and PNV a state pact in energy matters." And a reflection that makes this news about one of the possibilities of the People's Party is to bet on the renewables as the main axis on which the electric mix will base -- which is doubtful -- a new proposal to Citizens and PNV about the Basque industry and to eliminate some of the costs of the electricity tariff in Basque. I want to remind you that when the 2013 law is negotiated, exactly what it does, what the PNV proposes, and what it agrees with the People's Party, is the creation of a new fee, which was 6.1B, which did not exist before that law, and what Euskadi was able to reduce the fees by 6.7% for the industry. That meant saving 50 million euros/year to the Basque industry, in case someone then goes up to this gallery and here argues that you can't reduce the fees, or that you can't reduce the fees according to the territories - using the nomenclature that the People's Party usually uses in this regard -. In fact, you can, and you actually did it in Basquedi. And in fact, it's one of the proposals that today is in the press that the People's Party is proposing to look for that possible pact or the investment vows. I mean, it's done, and it's back on the table the energy problem. Because, indeed, the Alcoa problem right now is the cost of energy, that's the big problem that Alcoa has. But the big problem for a region, for example, as is Marine is what it would mean. It would be terrible for that region, it would be terrible for Galicia, that we could be facing a closure or a loss of employment, so it means data, that I just gave, and so it means for the Greek industry. So we want something really very simple, talked to the workers themselves, that the Union is an active subject, a government, to ensure the maintenance of jobs and that it takes forward all the management that it has to take with the Ministry right now to the fundamental, which is that the mail is as soon as possible. That is already immediate to maintain certain certainty about continuity right now. But the second aspect is about the electric tariff, about the energy. If energy, indeed, is one of the possible energy pacts, the People's Party has Members and Members of Galicia - even has two more than in the previous legislation - with which it can put more pressure on the maintenance of Alcoa in Galicia looking for its own electricity tariff. It is true that the law that was assumed by the People's Party in this House is now asleep. We don't know if he'll wake up at some point in another legislation. Of course, this legislation won't do it. And that's where we're already picking up these aspects: one, one, one Greek electric tariff; two, one for the industry itself. You guys now have a chance. We've had all the legislation debating the need to reduce the rates. Well, indeed, in that pact, in the next government pact, which is not only the Basque Government, which is not only the Basques, but those who lower the electricity tariff for their industry, but Galicia can also have a cheaper energy price. And that means for large consumers, as is the case with Alcoa, the maintenance of jobs. Because energy is a very important thing, not only as it appears in 2013, as an economic activity, but it is absolutely necessary for all kinds of companies, and also families. But we're not talking about energy poverty now, we're talking about that to keep industry and to keep jobs, what we're over 40%, like electricity production, should now be a priority for the Government of Greece, it should be a priority for the Members and Members of the People's Party to jump through a new electricity tariff for the Greek industry. We hope to count on the support of the various parliamentary groups, but especially the People's Party, and not, as I said earlier, on the initiative, to seek now a holder, but to actually commit to a Greek electric tariff. Because the Welsh industry is in a process of demolition, and the loss of Alcoa jobs would be absolutely lethal to the province of Lugo. So don't come here talking about drones like the future and let a factory close that's been in there for many years and has suffered a bad sale during a People's Party government. They get their hands on the work, and now in the Ministry of Industry they pull out immediately and negotiate a new electricity tariff for the Welsh industry. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u282	Thank you, President. I, Mrs. Adam, regret to tell you that I doubt very much that the People's Party will vote in favour of this initiative, because it is not the first attempt to get the People's Party to support the Welsh industry and support the Greek economy. We see that, when there is a government that really defends its country, as happens in Basquedi, it is governments that manage to negotiate with the state conditions that improve the options of its country. We have, unfortunately, a government that thinks more about Madrid, and Spanish than about Galicia and Galicia. That's our big problem and the problem we have now with Alcoa. Galicia is one of the communities most affected by the plans of Alcoa, and you can only explain this from a colonial vision of Galicia regarding the state, which is the vision of the People's Party. A vision that leaves in the hands of the State the economic conditions of Galicia and how the surplus of Welsh energy is used and the impact, or the benefit or prejudice, which it may have for the Greeks and for the Greeks. That's why we've been endangering Alcoa's continuity in Galicia for years. It's not the first time we've had this problem on the table, it's not the first time we've discussed it. But it will also not be the first time that the People's Party is leaving Galicia, the economic interests of Galicia, the labor interests of Galicia, on the other hand, and still betting that we pay the energy at the price we are paying, when we are surpluses and when we produce it right here; and when we have, in addition, a condition - which is harmful to our community - that never takes account of anything but that the issue of energy is taken into account, for example, in the situation of the islands. So, there's a bonus for the islands. But in Galicia we can achieve absolutely nothing because of the incapacity of the People's Party. For industries like Alcoa, intensive energy consumption means spending up to 50% of the total expenditure of these industries, so it's essential that a competitive, stable and predictable supply can compete. The state lacks legal stability in the energy sector, and that is a disincentive for investors, since the cost of energy for industry is higher than in other European countries, such as Germany or France. The lack of a stable regulatory framework and unabsorbed energy prices put these companies at risk of relocation. Of course, the People's Party denies the relocation of companies, it strongly denies it. According to them, that is part of internationalization, and what we are suffering from is relocation. The International Energy Agency in 2013 already reported that changes in energy prices would undoubtedly affect industrial competitiveness, focusing on investment decisions and business strategies. You can't attract investment when something so fundamental to the operation of any company, such as energy, has unabsorbed prices. The last post of non-interruptibility contracts sparked a confrontation between the Ministry of Industry and the company, which criticized the new system devised by the Government of the PP. More and more voices are calling for a stable energy framework for businesses and individuals, and, within companies, for high energy consumers, such as Alcoa. Alcohol is the main adjudicator of non-interruptibility contracts in the state, so the company committee to you, who listen and respect both the workers and the workers, demand, as a government, that they seek a solution that is not temporary to prevent each year from looking into the same situation, pending the result of the electric drive. The next auction of contracts comes now, finished in summer, and you have time to solve this problem, to set the conditions for Alcoa to follow, to give stability to the sector, and not to be pending every year in this pocket. We're still claiming - as the BNG spokesman said - a proper rate for Galicia to help companies become more competitive. Between 2009 and 2013 Galicia lost 12,000 companies, something should tell them that. It is key to revitalize the Greek economy by creating stable and quality jobs. It is necessary to promote an energy policy in the service of people and industry. Galicia needs to have compensation for the effects electrical installations have on its territory. We will therefore certainly support this initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u284	Good afternoon, everyone. In 1998, the Government of the People's Party - immersed in full Aznarism - sold Inespal to the American multinational Alcoa for 410 million dollars. He did so after two consecutive years of profits, which reached 72 million euros, while committed to making compensation for the price of the electricity tariff for the next 10 years. It was not the only case of policy and sale of profitable public enterprises. Inespal was one more piece of the dismantling of our public industrial fabric. Between 1998 and 2004 the People's Party sold - spousal - fifty public companies from strategic sectors: Repsol, Argentaria, Gas Natural, Telefónica, Endesa, Aceralia, Indra, etc.; and the Inespal itself among them. It is therefore worth this reflection to understand that, when we talk about the crisis and the difficulties this country has in getting out of it, it is appropriate to make a rigorous analysis of how we have come here and to what extent we devalue the economic sovereignty of our country by taking away the most basic resources for power, of course, to exercise economic sovereignty as a people, as a country. The current situation in Alcoa is serious, but the worst is that this situation is repeated year after year. We take the serious risk of selling or relocating Alcoa plants in Galicia. Because the truth is, Alcoa's management leaves all possibilities open, so he told the committee himself. Mr. Count--our counselor--know. But he knows because the workers themselves told him. Because when the councilman met with his own committee, he seemed to know the fundamental problem of this company. To the surprise of the committee itself, the advisor directly referred to the possibility of taking on new conditions of working flexibility to save the company. Where the wage cost, the wage mass, accounts for 7 % of the production costs of this company, and is therefore the minimum; the energy costs are 40 % of the total production costs. So here's the problem. Here, then, where to intervene. There our advisor was informed, there our advisor was informed. But it is not only a problem of ineptitude and misinformation, it is also a problem of absolute paralysis and inaction on the part of the Government, because it is necessary to address the issue of electric tariff in the industrial sector, a tariff that has to be stable, fair and proportional to the industrial sector because, contrary, the consequences are the ones that we are discussing in this committee: problems of competitiveness for companies, countless benefits for electricity but also for the positions of the People's Party that are on the board of directors of these electricitys, and a system of post which is a real failure in terms of competitiveness, in terms of profitability and in terms of industrial stability. But, at this point, what is obvious is that, after decades of consolidating a model that, from our point of view, is failed, what is urgent is to save the situation, a situation that is urgent; and therefore to summon the mail immediately. A government in functions that in addition had no kind of problem to act in Cence and in Reganosa, to maintain privileges, in this case it remained completely paralyzed. We're not talking about any company, we're talking about 2,000 jobs. But in the province of Lugo, in the Navy, we're talking about a company that practically involves 30% of the provincial GDP, a company that, if it were to leave or close, would be a bomb with an expansive wave impossible to assume for the province and for all of Galicia. Therefore, the Government's obligations are to become involved, to involve itself in taking on the investments committed, at the time of its sale, in environmental matters, in the field of technological innovation, in matters of improvement of its facilities. We have transformers that don't resist the operation of the company and that with a very small investment they could make the company more efficient and more efficient. Alcoa has invested 20 million euros in Iceland. There if you invest, but don't invest here. What's the reason? The government must know. We therefore have to assume responsibility for a government like the Greek. He made investments in resources, always assumed to invest in the marine gas pipeline to benefit Alcoa. Well, because you are involved in the solution of the conflict. So we understand that the Galician Union has to protect, protect and defend this process so that jobs are kept in Galicia. And if it is necessary, of course, part of the solution is that it becomes an investor partner. Isn't this the model chosen in the case of the famous industrialist of Rozas? 50 million euros for two companies and 10 million euros to improve the Ministry of Defence facilities to create how many jobs today?Oh, my God! Sky! Well, we have 2,000 jobs in Galicia that are in danger. You're investing in it. Yes, a technological partner in a sector, or aluminium, involved in innovative sectors: aeronautics, renewables, wind, automotive -- hence a strategic sector. There's a chance to intervene. Why don't you do it? Is the Government of Galicia being an accomplice in this situation? We hope not, we hope that the People's Group will support this initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u285	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u286	...as of course we're going to do ourselves, and if you put your hands to the work in solving this problem. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u287	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u288	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also want to greet the Alcoa workers who accompany us today. In fact, in the past full, the Socialist Parliamentary Group was asking the Industry Adviser a question just with the question we are discussing today, and that it is nothing other than the situation of the Alcoa company, which has two production centres in the Coruña and the Navy, and that for more than a month now is conducting a study of economic and financial viability in which all scenarios are being tackled, from the sale of production centers to the incorporation of a partner investor and even other options, such as the closure of plants. A situation that shouldn't surprise us because it's already happened more than three years ago on a plant that the factory itself had in Italy. And in the face of this and the little information provided by the management of the company, the workers are living rather uncertainly all this process. And I think it's good -- even though it's already done here -- to remember that we're talking about more than 1,200 direct jobs in San Cibrao and another 400 linked to the auxiliary industry, and around 400 direct jobs on the plant that the company has in the Coruña. But unfortunately for all these workers, for fifteen days ago -- which was when we asked the question to the Industry Counsellor -- there is nothing new to bring beyond the null implication on the subject by the Government of Galicia. And we said at that time that, for quite some time now, the members of the Greek Government have been repeating over and over again that their fundamental objective is the internationalization of companies. I don't know if for the People's Party internationalization means selling our know-how, as it's already happened with some company in the naval sector, or if that ambitious goal made them leave aside something as earthly and unambitious as it is to keep industrial employment in our country. I have to remind them that, since you are a government, you have lost in our country 1 out of every 4 industrial jobs. We therefore consider that the maintenance of activity is fundamental in the Comarca de la Coruña, but much more, it fits, in the Comarca da Marina, where - as has already been said here - this company means almost 30% of the gross domestic product of the entire province. Today, almost with total certainty--and I will disagree with Mrs. Martínez--I think the People's Party will vote in favour of this initiative. I think I'm going to do it because the proposal according to this initiative is entirely acceptable to the People's Party. It has done so on other occasions in the face of similar situations, but nothing more than that, simply voting in favour and then no political action to try to solve the problem. And I say this because the Mr. Counsellor's answer in the past full, in addition to frivolous, was quite disconcerting. He didn't realize any actions developed, not even contacting the company. And in the last few days, we could even observe how the tight agenda of the President of the Galician Union prevented him from receiving the representatives of the business committees of the two factories last Thursday. Which means more of that great commitment on the part of the president to this country. In fact, we all know what the fundamental problem is about this company, which is nothing other than energy costs. It has also been said here that they represent almost 40% of total production costs. And besides that problem, there's the problem of posing for inextricability, which -- it's not what I say -- according to the words of the president of the National Markets and Competition Commission are nothing but discounts and has nothing to do with a real energy policy, because the company, with this system, can't plan any long-term investment. We therefore consider - as we have already told the advisor - that the search for a stable framework in which to develop business should be the goal of the People's Party. Countries like France, Iceland and Norway have electricity three times as cheap as in this country; and in the last two years the price is guaranteed for 20 years. And even in Spanish territory there are different models, as has already been said here. It's the Basque Government, where the cost and cost reduction are clear and manifest, which means that industry has cheaper energy. We therefore consider that the Greek Government has things to do on this subject. First, you have to answer the questions posed by the business committees of both centres about the possibility of joining the board as an investor partner and, ultimately, working in search of a stable energy framework. We believe that the Greek Government must begin to do something about this issue and not only, as so many and so many times, to wait for the outcome of this situation. Your commitment, Mr. Balsairo, and the People's Party depend on thousands of important jobs all over the country, but vital in the Navy district. We really hope they take this matter with the seriousness they deserve. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u289	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. We also greet the workers of this company. Ladies and gentlemen, I know quite well Alcoa, I know quite well a lot of the Alcoa workers, and I know quite well the functioning of Alcoa. And I have to start by disagreeing with some of the things that were said here, and I have to say first that we will support this initiative, we will support it, it will only be missing! Not because of the current Galego Nationalist Block; but because of us, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Government of Galicia, we always support everything that has benefited the Alcoa workers, both on the San Cibrao plant and on the Coruña plant. That's why I have to say I have to disagree. Because here it seems like a plant has been called into question which, at least, is giving benefits. It's the first thing to say. At least this plant is giving benefits. [[Murmurs.]] Because, as you've drawn here, it seems that this plant should be about to close. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a problem, of course, there's a problem with Alcoa. There's a problem because, logically - which is not very clear either - it's intended to make a sale of that plant, just like other Alcoa plants in Spain are done and are working right now. Not only are they working, they're improving those plants. Not only are they working, they've improved. But that is true, the People's Group will approve this initiative because it is a responsible group. It's not an irresponsible group, as you were in the full past, when the People's Group proposed to make an institutional statement exactly the same as it was done in the Asturias Government, exactly as it was done in many of the municipalities in the province of Coruña and in most of the municipalities in the province of Lugo, and exactly as it was done in the Deputation of Lugo. And you, as we were at the time of the election, and as the elections were Sunday, they didn't want to approve it. It is true that they were not worth much, neither in the Coruña nor in the Navy. It was not worth them at all, because the Navy had it all, and there is a tide but the tide and blue, all! everything!, the sixteen Town Councils and in the province of Coruña there is a very similar tide, also a blue tide in almost everything. [[Applause]] That's why we're going to act with responsibility, how we act whenever we talk about the Alcoa workers and whenever we talk about Alcoa. First, because we have in our hand a unanimous joint agreement -- I have this parliamentary group, and we are going to arrive -- that gives a way of confidence, of course, for the workers and a position of unity and strength in front of the company. And secondly, because, when we talk about the Alcoa factories, we're talking about an industrial project that has a future, ladies and gentlemen. And this party and this government believe in that future and believe in that project. Not like you, because you believe in nothing. On the one hand they support Alcoa and on the other they want to close Ence. On the one hand they support here and on the other they say they don't support important industrial projects. Look, we're talking, as it was said here, of more than 1,500 direct jobs in the three centres that have Alcoa in Galicia. We're talking about about 600 jobs linked to auxiliary industries. As has been said here, we speak of 30 % of the gross domestic product in the province of Lugo. We're talking about the true engine, the true economic, industrial and labor engine of the Navy. And we don't have to repeat here all the data that were provided in the previous interventions. But above all--and we must not forget it--we speak of people, which is the most important, of neighbors and neighbors to whom we speak, of families that reside in the municipality where I reside, with faces, we speak of known faces, about those who weigh, it is true that it weighs at this moment, uncertainty about their future work. And that's why, as we speak of known people, as we speak of known faces, as we speak of families that reside in my municipality, the only thing I ask of them is that we put partisanism aside, which is the only one who has cared about you on the subject of Alcoa, and we approve this agreement unanimously, and that you, who are the ones who have to rectify, your biocot position that you have to place next to the important one, which is to be located next to Alcoa, to be placed next to the workers of Alcoa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u291	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u292	And if it's up to us, we're telling you that the deal is going to come forward. And I'm done. I know what I'm talking about, I know Alcoa, I know quite well the functioning of Alcoa, I know a lot of the Alcoa workers and I know a lot of these families. For which, this group and this government will never miss Alcoa. Excuse me, you'll never fail, and you won't miss either, and you won't miss either, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I don't know what you laugh about. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u293	It's clear, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u294	He won't miss him or miss him, because missing means he can't fail. You, once again, are too wide open.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u295	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u296	I don't think it's strange that you're distracted by how the elections left you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u297	Thank you. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairo, I have no doubt that you know your neighbors and neighbors. I think we all know our neighbors and neighbors. But it's not a question of knowledge, it's a question of knowledge of what the problem is. I noted his exposition--I must confess that I did not understand it perfectly--that there is a problem. What's the matter with Alcoa? It's not the knowledge of workers and workers. Alcoa's problem is -- we try to explain it here -- the energy problem that the Spanish state has, the problem that big energy consumers have, the problem of the posse. [[Murmurs.]] So, you rule in Galicia, you rule in the state, and they're expected to rule in the state again. That's the responsibility they've given that I'm the party that wins the election. You have the responsibility to change the energy frame. Okay, it's very good that you ask that we all support this initiative, which, by the way, is the initiative of the Nationalist Galego Block; but, well, I appreciate the support of all the House groups. But the problem of Alcoa is not a problem of knowledge of the factory, of the operation of the factory and of the knowledge of the people who are suffering from this problem. It's a problem of how the energy system is designed right now in the Spanish State, which, if it's not done, will always be at the dawn of the next posse, of what happens in the next posse, whether it's profitable or not profitable for Alcoa or anyone who's going to buy this factory. Look, you haven't talked about anything here on two fundamental issues: are you going to compromise the People's Party and the Ministry of Industry to push the next push? That's a fundamental aspect. Secondly, are you going to commit the People's Party to reviewing the tariffs - as it has committed itself to the Basque Government to review the tariffs of the Basque industry - so that the Welsh industry is not currently at a disadvantage with respect to the Basque industry? Are you going to do it? Are you going to assume the popular legislative initiative on the electricity tariff? We are now going to vote on an initiative that makes the Government committed to working for the maintenance of jobs. Towards the future, what you should assume, since you are committed to the knowledge of your neighbours and neighbors and to the workers and workers of alcohol, is working from the People's Party to modify the energy frame. That's the real problem Alcoa has right now. Of course we know it benefits, too, when you and the People's Party sold Alcoa, from being an industry... No, no, you sold it, you sold it in the year 98 and it brought benefits, exactly 1,200 million pesetas. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was beneficial, and you've lost money for the state's ark with that sale. So I appreciate the support, but really what can guarantee the maintenance of jobs is the modification of the energy system right now in the Spanish State. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u299	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Ms. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficiencies reflected in the report submitted by the World Wildlife Fund Nature Conservation Organization on the Natura 2000 Management Plan in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u300	Mrs. Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u301	Thank you, President. Good day again. Today I bring here to this plenary a non-law proposition about evaluations that make this non-governmental conservationist association about the Natura 2000 Network's Master Plan in Galicia, and about the lack of plans specific to the different parks. It is not a matter of taking lightly, because I believe that part of the protection and of these documents is the future that we have and that we must leave to future generations of Greeks and Greeks. The Natura 2000 Network is the largest coordinated network of protected areas in the world, it is the main instrument for preserving the biodiversity of the European Union, a set of spaces deeply intervened and humanized but indispensable for the conservation of many species and habitats. With the enactment of the Habitat Directive in the year 92, the European Union took the fundamental objective of promoting the maintenance of biodiversity, taking into account economic, social, cultural and regional demands within the framework of sustainable development. In addition to conforming to an official role that says an area is Nature Network, the Habitat Directive has required for twenty-four years a specific management plan for the sites included in the network and the establishment of regulatory and administrative measures in accordance with the ecological requirements of habitats and species included in the Annexes to the Directive. European legislation has designed the Natura 2000 Network by setting minimum criteria, but at the territorial level. The degree of protection and quality of management depends to a large extent on the political will of the competent administrations of the Member States. In this case, within the Spanish State it is the responsibility of autonomy. And the Spanish State can underline that it has a larger territory dedicated to the Natura Network: about 23%, according to the Ministry's sources. In Galicia, the Natura Network currently covers 59 areas of special conservation and 16 areas of special protection of birds, covering a total of 390,000 hectares. In this wide area three zoning units are established: the zone 1 protection area which has a maximum value; to 2, or conservation area, which has a high protection value; and to 3 is the area of general use, which is the territory that is less restricted and accounts for 6 % of the total network in Galicia. The so-called "naturometer" of 2016, which publishes the World Wildlife Fund World Forum for Nature, in May last year, which coincided with the European Day of the Natura 2000 Network, intended to give a vision of the degree of protection of biodiversity in different autonomous communities and point out the aspects to be improved. Galicia is one of seven communities that the ecological organization suspends by failing to comply with these European directives in the defence of the environment, and by not contemplating the management plans of its protected spaces. It is powerful when it is claimed that Galicia has the worst management plan across the state. For these spaces, in the category of serious deficiencies, it is practically reduced to a simple declaration of intent, without having any financing or operational possibilities. But the opposite must be said of both Euskadi and Balearics or Valencia, who walk, according to this organization, in the right way. The Natura 2000 Network Director Plan fails to identify threats. Conservation targets are very generic, which makes it difficult to check their compliance. The measures proposals do not ensure the conservation of all species and habitats of Community interest, and are described superficially and the sources of funding are not described. The Natura 2000 Network, which has introduced itself and sold itself as an opportunity and the possibility of income and new economic resources, has become a disaster. And it must be borne in mind that this slab is being paid by many owners and municipalities in the form of prohibitions and limitations, without any compensation for their own conservation. In Galicia, at the moment, there are different natural parks, six in total in the four provinces, are the Straits of the Eume, Corrubedo and the Lagoas of Carregal and Vixán in the province of Coruña; the Winterfell, the Serra da Lastra, the Lower Limia and the Jurés, in the province of Ourense; and the Monte Aloia in Pontevedra, which is the only one that has a management plan. And let's not say the Eume's Fries anymore, because it's an endless story since 1999. In fact, four criteria were used in community analysis: threats, targets, measures and funding. Here, the organization studied 100 percent of the plans. It was a document of a considerable extent which included the 59 areas of special conservation and the 16 areas of special protection for birds, which in the words of the organization was confusing and difficult to follow, in which it said that conservation cannot be guaranteed itself. He's very generalist, because he's ill with details about identifying key elements for conservation, conservation targets and accurate conservation measures. These plans are the basic tool that ensures this conservation for each protected space. Here really, in all these years, there's no clear policy, nor does it seem to be interested in this protection. And let's not say - even often we are amazed and amazed - when in these own parks, within the network, they authorize certain activities, whether sports or not, that they should include a consideration of the medium in which they will participate, but that they count with the satisfaction of the administration itself, such as what happened last May in the Courel, where just there was what they called an Ultra Trail passing through Devesa de Paderne and Val das Mouras - sites of special value -, or even when they open clues without the environmental impact, always with the good report of Junta. When we favor even careers or juggles we don't understand and we don't understand these kinds of things, and even if we allow certain types of television programs that it seems that the only thing that favors is to do stupid things and end everything one or one finds in the front. And let's not say any more on the subject of fires, where there were a lot of potatoes, especially if we go to some events that happened a few years ago like those of the Strawberries of the Eume, which still today I think is unsolved, and the problems that there was to try to cut and put out the fire. The European Union has declared LIC six autonomous Spanish Atlantic communities, where Galicia has these 55 spaces, and it also gives it, together with other communities, six years in time for protected spaces to contain plans of comprehensive management that guarantee this conservation. But we still have this problem. It is certainly time to strengthen the implementation of the directives on habitats and birds in Spain, which, in addition, if we fail to comply, we will be depriving ourselves of the opportunity to preserve this natural heritage. Biodiversity conservation policies are accurate and useful, more insufficient. Despite the fact that they succeed, even if little, in a small percentage, to reduce the destruction of nature, they are not enough to effectively cope with the biodiversity crisis, one of the main elements of the environmental crisis. We must go to the root and address the underlying causes of loss of biodiversity. We need to have reasonable production and consumption patterns against the sporadic consumption of capital. We must also strengthen policies that come from the European Union. Often they're almost the only valets in our green spaces. That sounds like a lie! Also the process of developing the Natura Network in Galicia itself is a chronically unjustifiable delay. It took nothing more and nothing less than the Galician Union seven years to draw up the first proposal of the Natura Network, which was so ridiculously small that it had to be modified four times before it was adopted in 2004. Even if it's promised to expand, we're still on it. For this reason, we present and urge the Union to address the shortcomings of the Nature Network's Management Plan, where they must provide the specific plans for each of the spaces of this network and also bet on conservation policies with a greater definition and protection appropriate to the Greek territory, and provide them with proper funding. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u302	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr Trenor López has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u303	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for helping me pronounce my name. Galicia's Natura 2000 Network Director Plan is an instrument for planning, managing and managing Galicia's Natura 2000 Network. Mrs. Fernández, the complete document of the Plan Director of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia is available on the Council's website. It can be consulted on the complete content of the Natura 2000 Master Plan, which consists of 13 documents: the 2014 decree declaring special conservation areas the sites of Community importance of Galicia and approving the Natura 2000 Director Plan of Galicia; the second document is the natural heritage and biodiversity; there is also the normative framework and programmes, the socio-economic environment, the spaces of the coastal area, the wetlands and river corridors, the mountain spaces and the georeferencing. Then there's a synthesis document, and then there's four more mapping documents: delimitation, environmental units, valuation and zoning. All this documentation in its entirety has been submitted to public information and audience and is available to everyone on the Council's website. It should be clarified that the document referred to by the World Wildlife Fund is only the normative text of the Natura 2000 Network Master Plan, which corresponds to Annex II, which refers to the regulatory framework and programmes. In other words, the World Wildlife Fund has only analyzed the normative part of the document, ignoring the rest of the plan. Or otherwise, the plan consists of those 13 documents, and together they constitute the planning and management tool, and we cannot reduce the plan to just one of those 13 documents. It complies with the legal requirements, being consistent, in addition, with the guidelines, as could not be otherwise, of conservation of the Natura 2000 Network, approved by the agreement of the Sectoral Conference on the Environment. Galicia has developed its plan by grouping the spaces for its planning and management into coastal spaces, wetlands, river corridors and mountain spaces. In relation to threats, the master plan analyses, for the different types of habitats - marine, coastal, river corridors, wetlands, continental, woodland and rocky means, forests and traditional agrosystems - as well as for the different species - grouped into flora, invertebrates, fish, birds and mammals - both the actions that do not have a significant condition about the state of conservation of habitats of Community interest, which would be framed as mild threats, such as those actions that can significantly affect the state and conservation of habitats of community interest, assuming the greatest threats. What's the challenge we have now? Advance in the development of more specific measures for certain habitat groups and in the development of specific plans for those spaces that, by their special management complexity or their high biodiversity, require it. This is the case, for example, of the Valdovino Conservation Plan or the Cathedral Beach, or also of the conservation plans of natural parks. We understand that this line is moving forward in a greater definition and protection of the territory, in addition to two measures specific to the Feder and two EAFRD submeasures for its financing. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Natura 2000 Master Plan as a management plan, collects conservation measures applicable at each place to maintain and restore a conservation state favourable to natural habitat types, taking into account economic requirements, social requirements and cultural as well as regional and local particularities. Space zoning and management measures are genuine conservation measures that include specific and individualised initiatives for different habitat types. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's Natura 2000 Master Plan contains the so-called tracking indicators. These indicators allow the Administration to define the need to additionally set other conservation measures to those already established, updated or revised. That's why, Your Honor, we tabled this amendment to your proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u304	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u305	Yes, good morning. We support this initiative. We have already expressed ourselves on this Nature Network Director Plan, and we have already submitted allegations to that document, and our allegations are there to look at; they are consistent with much of what is said in this report. Mr. Trenor was speaking of the zoning. Look, there were five zones in the previous decree. The People's Party reduces areas to 3 and above all converts the highest minority protection even in areas of greater conservation: Ancares-Courel, which is 15.6%; Ons-O Grove complex, 21.6%; Death Coast, 40%; and The Pindo, 15.2%. Moreover, the enlargement measure recommended by the European Union in 2011, which said that the area of Natura Network in Galicia should be expanded, which is one of the lowest in the state and in Europe. You forgot about that. You also made this decree of the Nature Network Director Plan in relation to the law that was being drafted, already in force, Law of the ground; therefore, they reduce protection, since in that Law of the soil they become only rustic of environmental protection those areas within the Natura Network, forgetting the ecological corridors, which before they were protected. Therefore, it degrades, deprotects and devalues the Natura Network, there is no other issue, because of the reduction in the zoning of areas of greater conservation, but also because of the regulation of uses and activities, which is contrary to the conservation values of the Natura Network contained in European provisions. First, the Nature Network Management Plan does not prevail over sectoral plans and projects, and can be exempted for imperative reasons of first-order public interest, without any more nuances. I mean, it gives rise to an arbitrariness in that the compelling reasons for public interest can take anything. It wasn't like that before, in the previous decree. Moreover, the Nature Network Management Plan foresees that, even if the negative environmental assessment is supposed, use of uses and activities for compelling reasons of first-order public interest, including social or economic reasons, would mean a genuine generalized collade against environmental values to protect and preserve. It prevails economic interest in the environment. Secondly, the Director Plan provides for the continuation of existing mining and mining operations, even illegal ones, even illegal ones! The activity of aquaculture throughout the Natura Network is also generally considered to be permissible; also in zone 1, EDARs and waste treatment facilities; thirdly, in the Natura Network, although it is generally declared as exclusion for open-air mining activities, the expansion of existing ones, subject only to a proper assessment of their environmental impact, is extended. The same as with regard to refuelling of wind farms, hydraulic uses, etc. Fifthly, the repositioning and planting of alloctone species such as eucalyptus is limited only to areas of continental wetlands, slaughterhouses and forests, and only when it can generate a significant condition; which is an obvious allowability regime and enables reclassification and urbanization into spaces of the Natura Network, etc. It's the plan director--or destroyer, rather--of the Natura Network, And finally, that document was introduced, Mr Trenor, with no economic memory, no economic plan. It is clear that the protection and value of these spaces by the People's Party is not within the priorities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u306	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr Jorquera has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u307	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Galicia many spaces included in the Natura Network today have a significantly higher level of degradation than they had before they were included. That's the consequence of making plans that are confined to the DOG without accompanying them with actions that really develop them. The Joint Group refers in this proposal to the World Wildlife Fund report on the degree of development of the Natura 2000 Network management plans in each autonomous community... If you want, sir, the old Adena, the old Association for the Defense of Nature, to see if we understand each other, the old WWF Adena, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He said that according to the report by the old Adena on the degree of development of the Natura 2000 management plans of each autonomous community, Galicia has the most negative rating. WWF states that the master plan is completely insufficient for the proper management of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia; and that, in case it remains in force, specific plans would be required for each space. "For this reason" - I quote textually -, "can not legally give the declarations of special conservation area made through this plan director. Therefore, the former Adena is added to the unanimous rejection which prompted the plan of the Greek Ecological Organizations to - the rector; a plan which violates up to six Community directives. Thus, Adega denounced that the master plan leaves the door open for economic speculation and destruction of the terri--tory, even in these spaces of special protection. It rules what should be an exception: it considers what should be authorised and what should be prohibited, with the object of emptying the contents of the environmental protections, to bridge the directives of habitats and to assert itself the right to allow discreetly anything. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Galicia is the autonomous community with a smaller area integrated into the Natura Network. The area integrated into the Natura Network represents about 30 % of the peninsula; in all autonomous communities it exceeds 20%, in Galicia it does not reach 15 %. And not only does the master plan extend the surface to protect but it significantly lowers the level of protection. Thus, it modifies the delimitation of the different levels of protection, cutting the areas only to 3, it excludes from the reserve area for the territories with greater conservation needs and merges the areas of restricted use with the moderate use collected in the 2008 Master Plan proposal, calling this area as a conservation area. As a result, the conservation area covers only 26.4 % of the territory of the Natura Network, compared with 67.6 % representing restricted use and moderate use areas in the 2008 proposal. In practice, more than half of the area enjoyed by special protection is reduced. In the rest of the areas little less than the free bar is set up. It includes authorization for the discretion of non-traditional activities, and even mines, coroners and wind farms are not excluded by allowing them to expand through licensing updates. Mines, canteens or wind farms existing in areas of Nature's Network may extend its surface and, as Mr. Anton Sánchez said earlier, even those currently not authorized can be legalized. Aquaculture production facilities are also allowed throughout the Natura network. In addition, the plan allows the change of classification of protected rustic soil in urbanizable soil. In short, it's a plan designed or ends diametrically contrary to what should be its reason for being. Content of your protection policies to open the door to a model of environmental destruction and policy of our natural resources. For all these reasons, we shall vote, as it could not be otherwise, in favour of the non-law motion put forward by the Joint Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u308	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u309	Thank you, President. Good morning to those who haven't eaten yet and good afternoon to those who have. It is very sad that this initiative that affects our territory does not interest too many Members, and the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. On several occasions in this House we have asked the party in the Government to vote in favour of a new master plan, and after many years the Government has drawn up a new master plan, which is the Director Plan that reflects the policy of the People's Party on Environmental Protection and, in particular, on the protection of the Nature Network in our country. We are not in favour of this plan of the People's Party's Government, and we have five essential reasons that, as the spokesperson for AGE and also the spokesperson for BNG, have reflected in the various allegations that the ecological groups have been making precisely this plan director. The first reason is the delay in your approval. It has failed to meet the European Union's deadline for approval of management plans for the Atlantic biogeographical region. The deadline had ended in December 2010. The master plan is barely one year old, and that delay led us to think about what it said before, and there was an obligation derived from the European elections, and that is precisely why the People's Party decided to approve it, and it was a face-to-face wash just in front of these European elections and against the European Union itself. It shows this delay in the lack of interest the government has in the Natura Network. The second reason is that, as mentioned earlier, this master plan allows activities contrary to the objectives and the very purpose of the Natura 2000 Network; for example, it authorizes new extractive activities to open sky in areas that are included in the scope of application of the plan itself that even rub, as was said before, illegality, or, for example, allows aquaculture plants in protected spaces, and shows that the People's Party seems to want to favour more land grabs or even resources to large corporations, and the clearest example was those Pescanova macroprojects that we all know how they ended. The third reason for this is the absolute disillusionment on the part of the People's Party in the eradication of invasive plants, of invasive species. They are only encouraged by the Government through environmental volunteering, there is no institutional government impulse for its eradication, and the palpable example is the number of times that he had to come to this House requesting to eradicate the Pampa grass from our territory, which, curiously, the People's Party started voting in favour several times but ended up voting against this eradication. This shows again what is the real interest in protecting the environment that Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government has. The fourth reason is this lack of respect for the native species of our country. The plan says that wooded forest surfaces that, at the time of their entry into force, are populated by non-autochthonous forest species can continue to be exploited. I mean, you don't push a sustainable forest sector based on native species, but if you do, with silence by reply, a gift to Ence, along with that extension for sixty years more granted by Rajoy and praise by the President of the Galician Union. And, finally, the fifth and last reason - perhaps the most important reason - as was said before, and as was said in the allegations and initiatives presented by this parliamentary group, is that this plan fails in the economic memory, there is no budgetary framework; it is therefore only a wet paper because it does not have a standard of accompanying economic items for specific purposes. The Natura Network should be an opportunity in our country for development and employment, but it's just another missed opportunity, which also violates the 2007 Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Act. Finally, we understand that the rules, that any kind of rules that are adopted in this House, or that, like the Nature Network Plan, have been approved by the Government and that have been criticized by this non-governmental organization, which is WWF - an organization that is alien to the parliamentary groups and therefore is associated with political activity, and that reflects objectively what is also happening in our country - express the political will of the People's Party with the Natura 2000 Network Plan; a reflection of its null commitment to the protection of the territory and its inability to enforce environmental regulations - also this law of the year 2007 that cited above -, its ambiguity to favour discretionary, even arbitrary actions, what to do and where and the failure to develop activities that are sustainable in areas protected by the Natura Network, which leads us precisely to the fact that this plan is sole, in addition to prejudicial to the territory, wed paper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u311	We're going to vote in favour, no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u313	I would like to thank, firstly, the different parliamentary groups that supported this non-law proposal. If I say I'm not going to accept the amendment tabled by the PP because, following its general tone, it says absolutely nothing. Hunta pretends to be the queen and the banner of biodiversity, the brands of ecology, but PP has been ruling in Galicia for almost a lifetime and we don't see any intention that he wants to change a lot. As bad as we have, in this case, this non-governmental organization as an outside viewer that does put the colors together! It seems a lie that the PP, which has in its symlogy, in its corporate image, the blue, because it doesn't take much notice of what blue means. With all these policies being carried out, both those we talk about the master plan and those of the lack of concrete management plans, by not having an budget, as the other groups have already repeated, that doesn't mean anything, wet paper. And also the most surprising thing is the permissivity of destructive practices without any criteria. It's a missed opportunity for the Greek people in general, because enjoying our environmental wealth, I think, is a basic pillar of the economy. I mean, it's a missed opportunity. And I mean, environmental education also lacks a lot and, above all, knowledge. Most people don't know that we have areas of protection, they often learn by the media, by some circumstances, that they cut a tree, that if they cut it - as happened the other day in Castroverde, in the province of Lugo, a centenary oak -, or even if you find out by other circumstances as through television. And finally, I want to finish with a sentence: if that government is unable to appreciate the shadow that its oaks offer, it's no government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the draft decree establishing the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u315	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Gallego has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u316	Good afternoon, or good morning. I'm one of the good days, I haven't eaten yet. We're going to encourage this a little bit because we're all... it seems like a good time to debate, president. By the way, President, I've taken note and I've already sent the message you gave me a moment ago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u317	I was talking about the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u318	That's it, that's it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u319	...ourense patients who have as their reference the Vigo hospital, the bonobos. Well, please do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u320	That's it, I'm not going to argue with you. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u321	Since you answer me... I appreciate that management for the sake of Ourenses. Thank you. Now let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u322	Okay, I've already sent the message. We will discuss an initiative of the Galician Socialist Party, which is the 2015 draft decree on tourist apartments, tourist dwellings, tourist establishments and accommodation and tourist dwellings. The Government of Galicia has developed the draft decree for the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in our Autonomous Community. As is customary in the practice of the German Government, the People's Party, in the elaboration of the above-mentioned document only counted with one part of the sector; essential social sensibilities are left out. Moreover, it contains abusive measures of difficult compliance that seem to claim without rational justification the elimination of housing from the rental market. The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that there is a need for ordination and regulation of vacation rental. We believe it is important that it is regulated, but always done since transparency. Now that the spokesperson for the People's Party - I will not say the name, so that it may not be for allusion - is with that of the new methods, of the new transparency, with the renewal of the People's Party, we see that we follow with the usual habits, with the habits of doing things always behind the back of the majority and, however, favouring friends, in this case, a particular sector. The Decree of 2015 had to have as its regular purpose and enhance tourist housing, not eliminate them, as intended by this decree; decree drawn up by the Consortium of Hosts. They said publicly, I don't say it; they said it publicly, that they made the decree, and without taking into account the opinion and the proximity of the owners of the different dwellings. A very ambiguous decree, not specific aspects very important to take into account. The goal is very clear--I said it at first and I repeat it now-- : eliminate dwellings to increase stays in hotels. I insist again that the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to regulate itself, that the owners - of course, that they devote themselves to the rental and everything - are controlled, make their declaration of what they gain from the rentals and, above all, that same thing, that they are controlled, because it is very important, above all, to make a quality tourism in Galicia, which is what we want I hope everyone. Tourist apartments, buildings integrated into floor blocks or housing units such as chalets, etc. that are intended as a total tourist accommodation without a permanent residence character, if they are in rustic soil, they can be inhabited, and the continued housing cannot be more than three months. I think, really, there, in that case, the decree is very restrictive. I am convinced that among all - and of course, the groups of the Galician Parliament - we have to tell the Host Association and the Galician Union that they modify or withdraw the decree and that they start to work and collaborate with all. It is true - that I should not be told the voice of the People's Party - that there are decrees in the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, Madrid, Aragon, the Canary Islands and Andalusia. But, within the decrees which, of course, are in these communities that I will list, it is very important to say that in Galicia, in particular, we demand the residence certificate. It's reasonable to ask. The pay phone, too. The apartments also have to have furniture to use, and the plaintiffs too. I believe that one of the things that there is is is to ban rent for stays, and the existence of maintenance--that it is good that maintenance is maintained and, of course, that they are pleasing to the people who will enjoy them--. The one about the community limitation of owners, I think this shouldn't be considered, because I don't know why the community of owners has to limit that. If a person has an apartment and wants to rent it, what skills do the community of owners have to say no? And heating in the winter, of course it is. And in the civil liability insurance, today we are the only community that puts that condition. The one about civil liability insurance, today I believe that all buildings, all rental houses, have insurance, and already contemplates civil liability. I don't think it should be mandatory because they're all really contemplated. And within this, I think there is - as I said before - more than 6,000 tourist homes that I believe - and the Socialist Group believe - that we must regulate that all owners who dedicate themselves to the rental have it as a help, for many families. And we -- as mentioned at the outset -- brought this initiative because we met with owners in the province of Pontevedra, in particular, on the island of Arousa, in Sanxenxo, in Cambados, in Nigrán, Baiona and in all that is the back zone, and practically all of them said that they also want to be seen and regulated, but that it is regulated and not restricted, and above all that it is not intended to eliminate because it is -- as I said before -- a very important aid for those who use this method of rental as help, since, of course, it helps the maintenance of housing and especially to spend harsh winters. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u323	Thank you, Mr. Gallego. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u324	Good afternoon, ladies. Regularizing tourist housing is a regular thing that exists, exists and will exist, just like the collaborative economy applied to tourism. None of the cases are new. The difference is that both practices are now using technology, and consumers have brought about a change in the market. Of course, it is very clear that there is a need for legislative regulation that contemplates this new form of market, a regulation consensually by all the agents involved, and not only by those who display the monopoly until now. The emergence of the collaborative economy a few years ago and its application to tourism should be seen as great news. Thanks to her, many families can rent a room in their own home on their own, rent it whole or rent a second property on their own. Immersed, as we are, in an economic crisis of great proportions, with a very high rate of unemployment--especially youth unemployment--it is reasonable to think that this possibility is seen as a breath for many families who suffer or have suffered directly the effects of the crisis and labour insecurity. Thanks to the accommodation of travellers, these families were able to recover lost income, supplement them and even become micro-enterprises, i.e. generate income to pay bills and get, if possible, benefits. It is also reasonable to think - of course, logical - that the host sector is concerned about that. Nobody would like to lose -- even if it's a very small percentage -- the monopoly in which it was conveniently installed. That's why we understand the intention of the hotel lobby to remove from the environment a way of citizen economy that is being strengthened by a trend change in global tourism and the use of new technologies. Without a doubt, intelligent public management should be the one that overcomes the argumentary of resistance to change and invests its efforts in strategic management of tourism; a management that ensures that a greater number of citizens can benefit from it as the protagonists of the economic activity of its surroundings, which can be rural or urban. Because, if it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that capitalism is based on creating monopoly advantages and gaining income from these monopolies, capitalism is also based on liberalizing monopolies to accommodate new competitors who incorporate some kind of innovation or improvement. I suppose you'll agree with this. Well, I'm sorry. [[Laughter]] Well, they should agree with their capitalist ideology. [[Murmurs.]] The decree on what this PNL is talking about, so it establishes the management of tourist apartments and tourist dwellings, only responds to the demands of the tourism cluster, only that sector, and leaves the owners of tourist dwellings despite the fact that these owners are a vital part - especially in the area of Sanxexo, Grove and from there, from that part, also on the shore of Death - and very affected by this decree; a decree that subjects them to conditions that almost no one can meet and to conditions that assume a series of obstacles that make it impossible for these people to regulate their way of life. What results from the excess of requirements that cannot be met by those affected? What's the result? Useless regulations, effective only for a few, which harm the citizen economy for the benefit of monopolies. I have nothing else to say. It is clear that this Member will support the initiative. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u325	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u326	Good afternoon again. The truth is that since April 2015 the Government of Greece has been moving around with this draft decree in order to order tourist apartments, tourist homes and holiday and tourist and holiday homes. First of all, I would like to clarify that the first two categories to which this project refers are already covered by the regulations; therefore, too many new developments are not incorporated in this respect. If it's an important novelty and, from our point of view, it's interesting that a new modality is included, such as tourist dwellings, a modality, a category, that needs to be ordered. We agree with the intent of the draft decree because it is necessary to address a reality, such as the rental of housing for tourism from a fiscal point of view, from the point of view of security, from the point of view of the quality of this service and from the point of view of competitiveness, of competition, but also of equal rights, which is fundamental. It is true that we are in a context where the trend of new forms of collaborative tourism economy is increasing. And this is directly related to vacation housing exchange systems, new housing figures and - why not say so? - with the ability of society to self-organize to find solutions that improve their family economies in a context of crisis as acute as what we live. And here we have, for example, the case of Airbnb, where people, through social networks, are organized to exchange their housing during vacation periods. We believe these initiatives should not be blocked, they must not be blocked, they must not be stopped. And that's why we understand that the management of the tourism sector in this area should not be restrictive, but it must be ordered and guaranteed rights, equal rights. That is why we understand this draft decree in its spirit, but we believe that to address this reality must take into account all sectors and not only one, which I believe, I consider - and it is easy to understand, reading the decree itself - it seems, that it was what happened. It's a project that has, from our point of view, a lack of legal security, which does not take account of the contributions of all agents, which is diffuse, which is confusing and even improved from the point of view of legal and regulatory techniques. From our point of view, we have to warn of a matter. We agree with this initiative, but, of course, the withdrawal of the decree should not go through a new project that worsens what contains the current one, because we recognize that in terms of housing for tourist use the project is not strictly restrictive. It can get better, they can listen to agents, but it shouldn't, therefore, get worse, which I'm afraid could happen too. We therefore advocate a vision of the pluralistic, diversified, equitable tourism sector that is not subject to the interests of lobbies or tourist clusters, which in many cases intend to exercise a monopoly on the offer of vacation residences, and we do not go there. As I say, there are broad areas in our country where families individually have as their only mechanism to have some income in the vacation period -- which is the period where most incomes can -- offer housing in rent schemes. This has nothing to do with entrepreneurship, as is the case with tourist apartments. And I want to clarify this difference because nothing has to do with each other, and the project does make it clear. Therefore, the fundamental ejacism of this proposal is the lack of dialogue and, of course, the ambiguous character and the uncertain vision it offers of this reality. We will therefore support this initiative of the Socialist Group. We believe that what is requested is reasonable. Removed project, which is still at that stage. The process begins from below, in contact with all sectors, and from there we build together a policy framework that gives stability, legal security and is guaranteed for all parties. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u327	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u328	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr Gallego, agrees with this non-legislative proposal, with the need for the management and regulation of vacation rental, made, of course, with transparency, with clear ordination, of course with the participation of all sectors concerned, and with the aim of enhancing sustainable tourism in Galicia as an element of economic dynamisation. Of course, BNG shares the importance of tourism - in this case of renting tourist apartments and dwellings - in the economic growth of a large part of the Greek municipalities of which you speak in your explanatory statement. Well be it in Sanxenxo, Baiona, Cedera, Foz and many coastal municipalities, indeed, renting, tourism, is very important to them, and within the tourism - I say -, apartments and apartments of tourist use. It is important in its economic growth, also as a factor of territorial rebalancing and social cohesion, and even as a vertebrate instrument of the territory. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, shares the importance of regulating the management of tourist apartments and dwellings, but by pretending that the whole sector must be involved, and for that reason - already in advance - we shall vote in favour of this non-law proposal. The Block, of course, is aware of the importance of planning, ordering, promoting and promoting tourism that must be - in our opinion - of quality, which must be accessible and which must be sustainable, because it has a fundamental economic importance in many Greek municipalities. It is also important for the safety of users, both apartments and tourist dwellings; users who, over time, year by year are growing. Also to ensure control of the quality of the tourist services offered, and, as otherwise, also because of the importance of the same taxation and accreditation of these tourist apartments and dwellings. We were already aware of this when the People's Party's Parliamentary Group a few years ago called from this Parliament to urge the Union to process and approve, upon the consent of the sector - he said - a regulation for short-season rental housing. Already on that occasion, when the People's Party made a lot of fine-tuned in that it seemed that these tourist apartments were an unfair competition, we were calling attention that the main focus was on the tourist crisis, in a supposed unfair competition by individuals who offer their homes, and that according to them increased the offer, and more unfair competition, with the rest of the tourist establishments. He also drew our attention that after five years of Government Feijóo this had not been solved. Even when the State Government had promoted the amendment of the Urban Rent Law. Minister Ana Pastor said that 700,000 empty floors were to be mobilized, which would reduce housing prices, facilitate access to a roof for families who were experiencing the greatest economic difficulties, and even allow that tourism sector to be regulated. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that after the reform, after so many years, the homeless families are homeless. So, yes, tax subsidies were introduced to favour large real estate groups, but, to facilitate the express rejection, it has gone to the fulminant defeat, and despite these changes it has renounced an effective public housing policy, and this tourism sector has still remained unregulated today. We, I repeat, have always agreed on the need for the management and empowerment of the tourism sector in our nation, but it cannot be regulated without the whole of the sector, nor with the only objective of, once again, increasing the tax collection against the usual ones. The BNG - and already finished - understands that the draft decree on the management of tourist apartments and dwellings should at least count on the participation and proposals of the whole sector, as told in the Basque Country and other communities, in which hundreds of approaches were accepted, which is a way to channel all the energy of the sector to make a better tourist offer. Of course, we have to count on the promoters, we have to count on the hosts, I think we have to count on the municipalities, but also the owners. Regulation and taxation are yes, but with the participation of the whole sector. For a development of tourism in our country, sustainable and quality - I tell you, and finished - we will support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u329	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u330	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, with all the affection you know I have, say that in Galicia the hotel sector is a monopoly is not true. But one cannot say that we defend the monopoly of the hotel sector and, at the same time, speak of market liberation; one thing or another. And by the way, the black collaborative economy is very little collaborative with education, health, and social services. All your lordships said here that you are in favour of regulating this kind of tourist dwellings, but that's not true, because this parliamentary group has brought a non-law proposal precisely for these dwellings to be regulated by a decree, and none of you voted in favour of it. This is the consequence of this non-law proposal. There is a sector that is increasing year by year, and because of the new Internet marketing channels, companies that offer these accommodations on web pages that allow short-term rents, even for days, making available to millions of owners and consumers a simple and highly efficient tool for the sale of these rooms. Mr. Gallego, all your arguments have fallen since the moment he says what happens to those who rent the house for more than three months. We're regulating short-term rental housing. It affects only periods less than 30 days and twice a year. The rest, they are governed by the Law of urban leases. According to [...] 201314, 30 % of international travellers in Spain chose this option. It's a high market, and in 2015 this reflects it, as the numbers of travellers staying in these establishments have risen by 37 %. Socialists don't want to be regulated. They voted against our non-law proposal, and now they want Galicia not to move forward with a regulation that would allow us to get out of the state of claim in which these dwellings are found. Lives that are benefiting digital intermediaries, web domain owners, who cannot be controlled by the Autonomic Administration because they do not have a suitable instrument for that. Galicia participated - along with other autonomous communities - in the development of a homogeneous base to order all in a similar manner the dwellings of tourist use. Indeed, the communities that have appointed Mr Gallego are already regulated. And Galicia has been working for a year, Mr Vázquez, yes, a year with the whole sector affected, in drafting this decree. This decree was submitted to the public information so that it had claimed all that person it wanted to claim. It was sent to the representative entities of the rental sector and sent to the representative entities of the hotel sector. It was submitted to the Galician Tourist Council, where local corporations, universities, the tourism sector, consumers and users, of which you forget when you talk, and the unions are represented. Draft decree, of what we are talking about, that the Socialists and the entire House of Opposition ask to withdraw, and incorporate the allegations of all these collectives that I have just told them. So we're talking about a consensus decree. The demands Mr. Gallego says in his exhibition that they are so difficult to comply with, ladies and gentlemen, for people who want to rent their homes, is to register in a register covering a form facilitated by Galician tourism; to give a telephone number to address possible impacts; to have sheets of claims, to take part in the Civil Guard of travellers, to have a civil liability insurance covering people's risks.... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Fuck! We're talking about consumers! We'll have to protect consumers too, won't we? And for the houses that are rented in winter as well, They'll have to have a heating system. The object of this decree is only to provide a legal security framework for this type of rental, both for individuals and for the whole tourist sector. From the tourism housing sector, from the host sector, from the administrations, consumers, from the experts and yourself, demand regulation on this matter. She asks today, when we vote in this Parliament, not. This new regulation will allow for greater control; greater quality in supply; greater security for the user and the consumer. It avoids unfair competition and leads to taxation for its own economic activity. It gives legal support to those companies and individuals who wish to market their tourist accommodation, and comes to definitely clarify the different business models. So this decree allows us to have a legal framework and a housing offer that exists and will continue to exist on the market, because today this is an alleged situation. And I end by saying that of course we're going to reject this non-law proposition. This decree will be a plus to the sector, also to the tourist and to the owner. For the tourist and, above all, for this user who is often the humblest tourist, because it is the cheapest option to stay, who will be protected; and for the owner, because it protects you in the face of possible problems with customers, and will not have to go to the Urban Rent Act, which does not really represent this activity. This is a regulation that achieves the balance between owners, hotels, customers and users. As the president said this morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u331	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u332	...Galice will continue to move forward with you or without you. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Gallego. Give a voice to Mr. Gallego's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u334	Thank you, President. First, thank the Joint Groups, AGE and BNG for their support for the initiative. Mrs. Romero, don't cheat. When you brought the initiative, we proposed the same thing as we are proposing today, which had been agreed upon by all of us. And we included the parliamentary groups as well. That we all participate in what is the decree, from the decree, and in the elaboration after allegations. We've already told him that in his own time. That's why I bring you here again today, because that's what we told you at that time. And you said no. So I repeat again that from the counter that sold us so much these days, there is no heel. They're in that you make the decrees to favor a party--in this interested case--and leave out over 6,000 people trying to make rental houses real. Look, I'll tell you something. We, once again, want it to be regulated. The Socialist Parliamentary Group wants it to be regulated. But he wants it to be regulated by everyone's participation, not on one side alone. They didn't participate, it's a lie! I told him before I went to Pontevedra province, and I'm sorry that I didn't go to the part of Lugo or the Coruña, but in Pontevedra yes, I've been gathered--I've told him before--in Baiona, in Niger, in Sanxenxo, with people who say nobody called them, nobody. No one called them to participate in the elaboration of them, when they have something to say. They make a decree for one part alone, they make a decree for one part. To benefit some and not to benefit all. So, I think it's really what we ask. And we just asked for that. The current one is making a drawing with everyone's participation. That's easy. But what's the cost? I'm convinced, and I say here, that before the elections they won't approve. And it's been seven years to do it, seven years, and they haven't. They started last year and have been going around for years and a half without calling anyone, without participating with anyone from any of the interested parties, they're turning them around. I'm convinced that before the autonomic elections they'll have a hard time getting him out of the way, and I'm sure they won't get him out. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u335	Thank you, Mr. Gallego. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members, on the application by the Greek Government, for the 2016 2017 course, of a reduced tuition fee to all unauthorized university students from the old degrees and the new degrees established by the European Higher Education Area
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u336	An amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u337	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr Vázquez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u338	We're talking about a really important issue today, a subject that concerns many Greek families, and, above all, a very important part of the student's university. The truth is that the German Government, Mr. Feijóo's government, has been carrying much of its legislation for years, repeatedly advertising the freezing of university fees. In fact, there is no control session where the president himself insists on this fact. He did remember today. We welcome, of course, that university fees do not rise, but this slogan--the slogan of the freezing of university fees--needs certain nuances, needs certain nuances based on rigor and honesty that must characterize any action of government. I say nuances because the rates are frozen in the country that has the lowest third wages in the whole state; EUR 2,751 less than the average of the entire annual state in Galicia. So in relative terms it's not true, it's far from true, that we have the lowest enrolments in the whole state. On the other hand, the freezing of university fees is directly reflected in the budgets of universities, which, in addition, in a period of serious and rigorous cuts, again presupposes an asphyxiation for the budgetary adequacy that we assume and we understand that we intend to guarantee the Government of Greece. What are the consequences of this frame? So every year there are many students, many students, who can't cope with the cost of their tuition, and so colleges recognize it, on the basis of the default requirements that they have to issue all the academic courses, that go from being hundreds, in some case thousands. Therefore, mechanisms are needed that involve equity and also pay equity in the amount of registrations. So much so that the decree of university prices itself has been issued by the Government of Greece after course, also in this year's draft, it is recognized the need to incorporate these criteria of equity and remuneration in relation to matters which do not have the right to teaching from the old qualifications, prior to the European Higher Education Area, namely, undergraduates and diplomats. And we have to remember a question. The price of the university tuition, the price of the fee paid by students, in theory, corresponds to the price of this degree or matter. The Government itself in its decree says that the estimated cost of the registration corresponds between 15 % and 25 % to the actual price of the registration. It has to do with, therefore, the price of registration with the number of credits that this matter has, with the hours of teaching, with the degree of experimentation, that is, with the practices it incorporates, with the laboratory practices, and this determines the difference in price in the enrolment of the different university degrees. So, we have enrolments in subjects that are experimental, ranging from 83 to 125 euros, while non-experimentals range from 59 to 88. It doesn't have the same cost, for example, a matter of a philosophy titration as that of a engineering. Therefore, if these proportionality variables exist, they must be understood strictly and applied in any case. For this reason - I said earlier - the decree itself partly recognises casuistics by applying a reduced price of EUR 20 to subjects in the field of teaching, but as I say only in the case of the pre- European Higher Education Area, the old diplomas and diplomas. But the decree does not contemplate, ignore, we want to think that not deliberately, the case of matters without the right to teach the titles adapted to the European Higher Education Area. And that's not because it doesn't happen in different cases. There are cases of subjects in which, by organizational changes in the various titles, their right to teaching disappears, and they should therefore have a different price in relation to justice and the pay horse. We have the case of matter that disappears also because in this title the matter is no longer shared. But we have a higher risk with the new Royal Decree 3+2, the one known as Decree 3+2. There may be titrations that have changed from four years of duration to three courses of duration, and it implies the disappearance of a large number of subjects. In this case, the right to education in them will also disappear, and therefore the corresponding discount should be applied, as already done in the old diplomats and graduates. We're talking about an important number. Only in the case of the University of Vigo, there are more than 1,000 students studying in which the right to education is likely to disappear. In all of Galicia, the number would be much higher. Therefore, we believe that as we propose it is reasonable, it is easy to assume. We are not talking either of a too high budgetary departure, and less of that recovery scenario, in which we intend to place the Greek Government, and therefore what we are asking is to apply rebalancing, equity and proportionality measures at the price of registrations, we are simply not talking about anything really revolutionary. At one point, besides, in which the economy of families, of course, despite that account of recovery, is certainly not as boisterous as often as it is intended to be said. There are many families who have serious difficulties in paying for their children's college studies. Not only the rates, but transport, rent, maintenance, everything that has to do with transport, etc. So, with measures like this, what can we achieve? So to collaborate with those students who want to finish their university degrees can do so without undermining the framework and the normative model that this government has. We understand, we defend, we always defend, a universal university system, in which no kind of economic deficiency is, of course, an obstacle so that no Greek, no Greek, can study a university career. We understand that many of the obstacles that are being set for these students to enter a university degree; they have a lot to do with the information devaluation model, in which it is obviously intended to redirect the boys and girls from Greece to middle-level qualifications, vocational training mainly within a globalized labour market, in what is required of our country, what is demanded of Galicia, is labour for precarious work, mainly in central Europe. But beyond that, I insist, we are what we stand for is to overcome this model, escape in everything possible for this government of this elite approach, and introduce mechanisms of proportionality, fairness and justice in what it has to do with the cost of registration. Obviously, once we assume this budget, which we understand is basic, this measure does not affect the budgets of the university. It would soon be useful to apply this measure and to reduce the price of students' enrollment without the right to teach new qualifications, if that would involve a new cut from universities. We, of course, don't bet. Of course, we expect the government to approve this measure on the basis of the support of the majority group, and of course it will be a measure that will applaud the students throughout Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u339	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u340	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We, of course, are going to support this non-law proposition. Basically, in addition, because we also present and record initiatives in this regard, because it is an absolutely fair measure. I think it's hard to take the opposite, to attack this resolution. It's fair and fair, Mr. AGE's spokesman explained perfectly. We're simply asking that the price of subject matter without the right to teaching be the same for the old degrees, for the titrations to be extinguished, and for the new grades. It is true that no one expected that so near, so little time after the new titrations, they had already extinguished materials, subjects without the right to teaching. But that's the way it is. It would take us a long time to explain why, but I just want to say that this is not totally alien to the Council of Galicia, and its obsession because the titrations have a high number of students, be it reasonable or not, and that the titrations, according to Junta, are approaching the market. But for one reason or another, there are subjects of degrees that are being charged at normal price and have no right to teaching, only right to examination. I have to say that the clause at the University of Vigo approved a proposal of this style. The Retirement agrees with this measure. The Social Council agrees with this measure - the students of course - which affects many students, as Mr. Voice, to a thousand students only from the University of Vigo; and therefore it seems so logical because the other situation is unfair and discriminatory, and we would not understand that the People's Party and the Council were against. I would like to remind your ladies that the scholarship system is receiving brutal attacks by the Rajoy government; I would like to remind you at this moment that in Galicia, 8% of students have lost their scholarship, which is now even 8% less crowded students than in 2011. When the amount of scholarships in Galicia fell by 24 %, 24 %!, about 900 euros as average per student pocket. When this is happening, you will understand that it is even more necessary to have measures of justice, of fairness, as you intend here. And just a few more perceptions. By the way, it's the first time in many decades, many decades, there are students who have to leave college because of lack of means. I, who's probably been in college longer years now than I would wish for an old age, don't remember this happening at any time, and now they're leaving. So, in addition to the consulting bags, it's also backward, it's more necessary than ever. I just wanted more accuracy. I fully agree with Mr. Vázquez when he said a very well-known slogan of the People's Party, which we have the lowest enrolments in the entire Spanish University System. I just want to need that in the second registrations and that in many cases we're talking about them, we have one of the most expensive plates, that is, the difference between the first registration and the second registration is in Galicia much higher than in Catalonia and that in other communities; that the masters are of the most expensive ones we have in this country. And I'm not very surprised either, because I think the president doesn't really understand all of this about the freezing of fees, because he said this morning even though families saved 100 million a year for the freezing of fees. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, basically, I just want to do some number. The University of Coruña receives less than 14 million a year for university fees, so among the three it saves 100 million...! I mean, you don't even know what prices you're applying. Of course, not Mr. President. I hope the counsellor knows a little better. So we just want to say that we have an amendment that I hope will be accepted. If it isn't, there's no problem, we're going to vote in favour. That's just a measure that won't have an excessive impact, it doesn't have an excessively high amount, but the university can't afford to lose more money. So let's keep in mind that what colleges lose from admission must be compensated by the Galician Union. But I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u341	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u342	...if it's not accepted by the AGE spokesman, we're going to vote in favour anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u344	Thank you, President. From the Joint Group, as it couldn't be otherwise, we're also going to vote in favour of applying a fee on the tuition to reduce the price to university students without the right to education, either in the old degrees or in the degrees to be extinguished. And we're continuing this communication campaign that they've been continuing, with the freezing of fees for five years, with measures that will benefit about 60,000 students and students of higher education, and also say they're the cheapest in every state. They always talk in savings keys. They always give a precise amount. But it seems to the president that Galicia has one of the lowest levels of life in the state, specifically 12%, according to data from the National Institute of Statistics that have just been published this week. He also boasts of the fact that no Greek or Galician student will stay out for economic reasons, understanding that university is one of the most important systems to promote equal opportunities and also to promote the development of a territory. And they follow the advertising headlines, which is worth not meeting with the famous deficit, the lack of irresponsibility, the cost of worsening people's living conditions. And they sell us, and they remind us that they're going to support college students, but you don't see this gap because we don't include the whole student. We must make it easier for all university students who find themselves in this situation, who are almost like a limbo, to end up in optimal conditions and who have the same equal opportunities as others. One of the serious problems of university fees, especially here, is when the price increases as soon as you study the subject again. And with regard to the degrees and degrees to be extinguished, the board continues to refuse to lower these prices, since it does not teach and the registration only gives the right to an examination, as the students and the university themselves claim. But the whole class, within the cloister itself, approves it unanimously. The draft public decree of official prices for the next course which the Government referred to the Council does not envisage reducing these squares to 20 euros, as required. The same amount as the Regulation lays down for the subject matter of licences to be put out. It seems that the General Secretariat was replying to the university that they could not go down without violating the Royal Decree of urgent rationalization measures. That word, rationalization. But the text says nothing about subjects without teaching. We'll have a reflection. We never talked about the other side of the coin. As the colleagues in the other parliamentary groups pointed out, there's a significant number of tuition fees, a reality that doesn't usually appear in the media. And being up to date on payments is a requirement to be able to carry out and develop university studies. In fact, since 2003, it has been a turning point, above all, by the number of students who have been affected by the fact that they have not paid university fees. And as the fellows said before, we talked about hundreds of thousands, either at the University of Vigo or at the University of Coruña or at Santiago. The universities, which have become less and less budgeted, in a money-problem that has been gradually and dramatically reduced for some years now, especially since 2010, have to face even the possibility of offering, to this student who has problems with defaults, to facilitate their own payments. The universities themselves had to enable aid for unforeseen causes, with different criteria and amounts. The university continues to support, with less and less money, its own funding. Even denial of opportunities as research can be. And I once again leave as a reflection that a country cannot escape the crisis if it does not wage public university education, of quality, accessible to all the population, regardless of its economic level. Most of all, when we're a country where inequality between social classes has grown more and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u345	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u346	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. It is not the first time, of course, that in this Parliament we are addressing initiatives on university enrolments. It's not the first time we've talked about the effects of the so-called economic crisis on our country's working popular classes; these working classes that are often impossible for them to bear the costs of their children's university studies. This is not the first time we have denounced the economic and budgetary cuts applied to the Greek university system from the state and from the Union. We are looking back at those times when only students from families with very healthy economies could enter a university degree. They come back, sadly, times when the public university does not fulfill the role it should play as the advocate of social inclusion, equal opportunities and as an engine for social promotion, which at the moment, sadly, is not. Mr Vázquez, the BNG Parliamentary Group will of course support this non-law proposal because we believe that defending the right of all citizens to access the Greek university system is something we always support. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware that every year hundreds of university students are required by university tuition fees; we all know that. We all know that many and many of these students leave their careers because they can't afford tuition, transportation, stay and maintenance. Abandonments caused by the drastic reduction of scholarship funds, aid, scholarships, because they are much less and much less, and also by the rise of rates. Despite what Mr. President said today, and many other days, we have the most accessible registrations in the state. The first, but the second and third registrations often exceed the vast majority of European countries. Therefore, the President may continue to speak like this, but not the others. And since 2009, more than 5,000 college students have left college, and much has to do with these circumstances. We also know that the German Government continues to be enthralled by that propaganda that we are frozen and that everything goes well, to cover up manifest injustices. The first injustice - I repeat - is that many university students give up because they cannot afford their families' expenses; but there is also another injustice, which is the one that contemplates the non-law proposition that Mr. Vázquez has defended here today. University students who, without the right to education, are forced to pay the same public prices as other students who do have theoretical teaching, who do have practices, laboratory, continuous evaluation, puppetry, etc. So we understand that it is manifest injustice. The price of fees is justified as a student's contribution to meeting the lesson received, to theoretical classes, but also to practices, to the laboratory, etc. And we're talking about the university student running, among other things, plans of degrees to extinguish and that one looks obliged -- I repeat -- to pay the same public prices as the rest of the students, which we understand is a manifest injustice. The public price decree provides in Article 12 that the right to examine the plans to be terminated, in the case of subjects of study plans entitled to examination but in which teaching is not already provided, will be paid the amount of 20 euros. But it doesn't happen the same with these cases of grade plans being extinguished. In all its efforts, BNG shares the need to establish measures that set a fair price for all students who are not entitled to education, regardless of their former degrees or degrees to be extinguished. So we're going to support this LNP which calls for a reduced rate for all university students without the right to education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u347	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I referred here to the damage caused by the crisis in some people's economy. It's true, of many, of too many. But even greater is the damage that causes the effects of the crisis on understanding or on the understandings of some, which as much as they repeat things to it, again and again, they don't understand anything. They're still spreading the same lies here, as if repeating and repeating -- like the illustrious German thinker -- they were able to convince everyone that you're right. But last Sunday it's been proven no, that they're not right at all because they don't convince anyone, absolutely no one. [[Applause]] It's more, they convince fewer people every day. But they're still there, which we don't think is wrong. In any case, coming into matter, ladies and gentlemen, university funding plan, when they want to talk. No autonomous community has been able to draw the last two university funding plans unanimously from its university councils, not even with the consensus of the rest of the council. But you can find one out there! Mr. Vázquez, you referred to a comparison between income and costs. I accept. You go and look at the equal income, the Community of Castile-The Mancha, Andalusia, Extremadura, Canaryes, and now you buy me. Go to the ministry table and look for the prices of all credits in first, second and third grades. I don't care if it's first titration or second, I don't care if the experiment is maximal or minimal, whether it's mine. They always say it out of mouth, but then they come out here and never say anything, they never confirm or contrast a single data, just a speech. But we give data here. The president said it this morning and repeat it every time. And it's not five, Mrs. Fernández, it's eight years in a row with the same public university fees; eight years in a row freezing prices so that all students can stay in the university system; it's not a question of income or economic resources; it's a barrier for them to continue to study in the Greek universities, something that happens in other universities. Mrs. Burgo, it's always happened, it's always happened. When you vote too, and before, and in all autonomous communities. There were always demands for compensation, there were always people who couldn't pay the fees, always! What's wrong? They didn't count on the solidarity and commitment of their autonomous communities as here, nor the Government of the State. It would be little to them, but what would it look like to them then? Because we have 260 million euros. It would be little to them, but what would it look like to them then? Because we have 260 million euros more in state budgets - which are the valid documents -, 1,476 million euros. Even above, those who don't meet the criteria of the ministry to access these scholarships of the university system or higher education system -- they call them as they wish -- have complementary scholarships from the Galician Union. And there are also scholarship aids for those who, under surviving circumstances, in the middle of the course have difficulty in being able to pay. You know how I know it, but they don't care to say it; I don't care! In any case, and even if you don't like it, you have to say it again: we are in the autonomous community at the cost of credit, tuition and degrees in the cheapest European Higher Education Area in the Spanish State. And you can say it out loud and clear. [[Applause]] You may not appreciate it, but we've noticed that people, students, families, do. [[Applause]] You're not the only ones who speak, we also speak, but sometimes we also listen, and what they say, for nothing you're saying here. Speaking of -- that there is little time left -- from a smaller subject for you, they again took advantage of the theme to make general cause against the entire Greek university system, and they come here without respect for the autonomy of universities. That's not a mouthpiece--it's already the tenth or eleventh time I say it--it's not a mouthpiece, you really have to do it, respect the autonomy of the Greek universities. This is all due to an internal decision, making use of its powers, and an administrative decision making a university, the University of Vigo. Don't laugh, Mrs. Burgo. Tell me how many cases there are at the University of Coruña or at the University of Santiago. [[Mrs. Burgo López speaks words that are not perceived.]] Sky! There are cases at the University of Vigo, and we respect it. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, Junta must not even be involved in matters of exclusive competence at the University of Vigo. They made their decisions and we respected them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u349	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u350	You want to expand a measure that has been taken exclusively for the transitional phase of the decree to which you alluded, Mr. Vázquez, on your initiative--you know it perfectly--for those degrees that are subject to reform through adaptation to the European Higher Education Area--you know that-- They want to extend it to the rest. And we think that's neither solidarity nor fairness nor justice. And with equity, solidarity and justice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u351	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u352	...this parliamentary group will continue to demand that the Union, the government which governs, be a system in which no one is studying for lack of economic resources. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u353	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u354	Mr. Farinas, we're waiting for you to drop the election elevator a little bit, because you're carrying a full orchestra, if you'll excuse me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] All right, I always celebrate joy, even if I'm not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's a good thing. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] The problem is, you've gone too far to talk about it. Besides, until the red light illuminated it, you didn't come in and talk about the matter that we're dealing with right now, and that's the problem. You don't care about the problems that affect people. They worry about election results, they worry about keeping in the armchair, they worry about the number of votes, but they never talk about people's problems. That's the problem this country has! [[Murmurs.]] You see, this initiative meant something very specific, which is that students and families are not covered for a service that they do not receive. I mean, it doesn't cover college students, students and university students for a teaching they don't get. I'll translate it. What if you were asking them is that they don't get robbed, because when someone gets charged for a service that doesn't receive, they're stealing. And you, if you do not support this initiative, will be complicit in that theft; a theft that implies, besides, serious pitfalls and serious difficulties for families. You say there aren't many affected, there's no one in this country who can't study for economic reasons. Well, look, I'm gonna give you data from the University of Vigo. Only at the University of Vigo are 648 non-tax requirements; 205,000 euros for students at the university because they can't pay their tuition. Yes, of course, from your stage it's very easy to see that other people's problems are smaller. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Also from the official car. But families don't see it that way. Do you know that the families - also the college families of Greece - have to resort to bank loans in order to pay their tuition? Yes, the registration loan, the master loan, the career loan that the financial institutions publish. Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You recover the model where only the children of the wealthiest can have a university degree, and the rest of FP, suitcase, and for Germany. That's your model, so you, instead of talking about the problems and the issues that we bring here, you talk about the elections and your election drunk. [[Murmurs.]] All right, go on, get drunk in his pride. We, of course, are going to bring the problems. The least we ask of you, of course, is that you approach them rigorously, then you exercise your ideological position. We have no problem politically discussing the real problems, but please, with regard to the families and the people concerned and with regard to this Parliament, at least strictly address people's problems. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u355	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the barremo for the assessment of the degree of disability of people with neurodegenerative diseases, and their processes of review and updating
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u356	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u357	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I welcome the leadership of the Galaga Federation of Alzheimer's Inferno Associations here, to whom I would like to thank for the presence and, above all, the work they are doing for the care of the Alzheimer's sick. Thanks to them, many people are being cared for. Thanks to them, and to the efforts of families and caregivers, many people with Alzheimer's have services or have some program that actually allows them to slow down the evolution of their illness, or have some cognitive stimulus. And thanks to them, we also bring this initiative here, since it's on their behalf. Something has already been dealt with about this in the previous plenary session, and I want to remind the government group that it has agreed to speed up as quickly as possible and make every effort possible to diagnose this disease as quickly as possible. It was also agreed that social and health aspects should be coordinated for full attention to these patients. So I hope they don't take much time to put all these efforts into practice, so that it may be seen that, despite the gravity and the large number of people who are affected, really the Government of Galicia, the Government of the PP, makes an important effort; that it should be seen that it's not just propaganda. We bring a theme here that affects around 100,000 Galicians, and not only people with Alzheimer's disease, but also neurodegenerative diseases, which include multiple sclerosis, parkinson, Alzheimer's disease, etc. Neurodegenerative diseases have as their common attribute the progressive course of their symptoms; they reflect the gradual damage in one part or parts of the nervous system. They all have some common clinical characteristics, as far as their beginning is insidious and their course is chronic and progressive. They don't have etiological treatment, therapeutic performances are symptomatic in some cases and palliatives in all of them. Intervention generally focuses on alleviating pain, disability and possible complications that shorten life, and generates a terrible physical and mental illness among those who suffer it and among their relatives. In addition, its socio-economic repercussions are very important, because the process of disease itself must add the psychic impact, the decrease in quality of life, the inability to work, the loss of social skills, the physical and mental burden of the caregivers of these people and the enormous economic cost of their social and health care. Many times, a person with a lesser dementia is taking care of another person with quite greater dementia, and we have quite a few examples, recently, where some people have been found dead and inattentive. People with neurodegenerative disabilities don't respond to the pattern of other disabilities, and the system, due to its inadequacy to their specific needs, causes in many cases clear situations of social disprotection. Thus, situations of total disappearance occur because a degree of minimum disability is not achieved. The valuation system is neither suitable nor sensitive to measure the reality of its disability. In this sense, recognition usually occurs too late, when the person has reached a severe level of physical deterioration, when the reality is that access to specialized services and resources is basic to prevent or mitigate the effects of disease and to care for people and their families. By all means, we insist repeatedly on the need for specific treatment for these diseases and the recognition of the particularity of neurodegenerative diseases, in which each patient is a different case, with a different clinic and a different evolution. However, they all have something in common, they drift early or late into a disability situation and probably into a dependency situation or large dependency situation. In this sense, we ask once again for this situation to be addressed, recognizing neurodegenerative diseases as specific as disability. Because legislation currently protects people with recognised disabilities; that is, those with 33% or more, not specifically considering neurodegenerative diseases as a reason for obtaining the degree of disability that should correspond to the disability that people suffer. The 33% recognition in the disability of people diagnosed with neurodegenerative diseases, regardless of evaluation, would help to improve their access to resources, services and services, and would prevent possible situations of social deprotection such as those currently being generated. This would compensate for the specificity of the variability of the course of these diseases. Moreover, this subject must not fail to prosper by economic matters. He tells us that the Imserso spoke to the federations and conveyed them that, in fact, moving forward in this direction would not have a significant cost. Moreover, we would be giving many people access to jobs that are now inaccessible to them, and in this way they would contribute with their taxes to the economy of this country. And not only that, but that, in time, taking into account the needs of people diagnosed with this kind of disease, one would be able to significantly delay the evolution of the disease and this would delay, therefore, a greater disability and then dependence, which also means an important economic savings, but above all, a better quality of life. This has already been approved in some autonomous community, so let's hope that this autonomous community is also in line with these circumstances. Of course, the Socialist Party, whether this Parliament approves it or not, its group in the national Parliament will transmit this to the Government of the State. Faced with this situation, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presents the following bill: "The Galician Parliament urges the Government of Greece to address the Government of Spain in order to first respond to the requests of people's associations with neurodegenerative diseases, taking into account all the specificities of these diseases in the process of revision and updating of barriers, seeking at all times to carry out the evaluation processes with equity and taking into account the characteristics of the progress of the degenerative process. And second, that asks you to change the barrier for the assessment of the degree of disability by recognizing after the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases a percentage of disability of 33%, regardless of the evaluation itself that allows access to the system of protection to people with disabilities, taking into account the diversity of causes that produce them without prejudice to their expression in the course of their own illness. We hope that parliamentary groups will support this initiative and be an important step forward in caring for people with neurodegenerative diseases. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u359	Thank you, President. The current legislation does not specifically address neurodegenerative diseases as a reason to achieve the degree of disability and only protects people who have recognized more than 30% of disability in general. People with neurodegenerative disabilities do not respond to the pattern of other disabilities, so the current assessment system is neither adequate nor sensitive to measure nor to address the reality of these types of diseases. This leads to situations of social disprotection and disappearance when that recognized minimum degree of disability is not reached. In current legislation this recognition usually occurs too late, particularly when the disease has already reached a severe level of physical deterioration. On the other hand, early access to specialized and basic services and resources would prevent or alleviate at least the effects of illness and protect the affected persons and their families. Given in time the needs of those affected, it would be possible to significantly delay the evolution of the disease and thus greater disability and later dependence, which means, on the other hand, very important savings for our system. Thus, the automatic recognition of 33% of disability would improve the access of patients with neurodegenerative diseases to resources and services, for example rehabilitation, also benefits and aids; it would also prevent the creation of deprotection situations such as those currently occurring, and improve the quality of life of the people affected. The Parliament of Navarre has just adopted on 13 March this year, unanimously, a GNP exactly the same as the one we are debating today in this Chamber. So I hope that here too the consensus is reached so that this very fair-demanded GNP will reach the consensus needed to be approved. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u360	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u361	Thank you, President. This parliamentary group will support this non-law proposal and will support it because it is fair and because as it was now commented it is in part approved; it was discussed in 2011 at the Congress of Deputies and Deputies, it was adopted and it is currently not implemented. It is an initiative that required precisely that this 33% disability be granted to people diagnosed with neurodegenerative diseases regardless of evaluation, so it has just been explained here, since -- as it has already been said -- it has a high degree of progression, especially in some of these diseases, because there is quite variability in all neurodegenerative diseases. And, therefore, obviously that progression is a prejudgment for the person, but also for the help that he's going to need later and that often leads to more or less degree of dependence. But despite having been approved for five years, it has not been applied at any time, in a way, the truth, which is quite inexplicable, questioning to my understanding even the usefulness of what the Government has of the very activity of the legislative power in this case, and could also apply to this chamber. So much so that the posteriori have moved other initiatives to other chambers, here just named that of Navarre, but even the People's Party -- we understand that today you will vote in favour -- you have in some autonomous cameras moved this same question. The fact is, therefore, that it is quite inexplicable that at this point we must continue to debate in the various autonomous chambers and also in the Congress of Members and Members. In fact, some associations of sick people also appeared in the Social Policy Committee -- I think it was at the Congress of Deputies last year -- and we're doing absolutely the same. So, as we talked about in the morning when we had a debate that nothing has to do with this about the VE of leathers, we speak again about facts and not about commitments; that is, I hope it will be approved today, but in addition to being put in writing, there is the need for decisions made in the legislative chambers to be carried out, if it is not absolutely valid for nothing. And as we have already said, because I think there were two plenarys, when we were talking about the situation of the alzeimer in our country, there are many problems arising, for example, from the paralysing of the dependency law - but it is not even here if you're talking about that, you're talking about a previous step, which would be that recognition of the degree of disability - or we could even talk about the pairs that were imposed, or we could talk about that currently 45% of dependent people in Spain die before receiving dependency benefits. I think it's such a sad situation that it's sad to have to continue to bring the debate, because that should be fair. But what we're discussing on this initiative is really a preliminary situation; it's that these people before they get to a degree. more or less dependence has a progression in your illness that you could probably limit if you had access to treatments that you cannot access today if you have not recognized a certain degree of disability. And so right now it's families that have to take on practically everything: adaptation of their homes, orts, physiotherapy sessions, food supplements, occupational therapies and a number of aspects that should be included in the benefits, because they're people's rights, they're not a luxury. We understand that regardless of essential care - the value of redundancy - should not be acceptable in the 21st century. And obviously the granting of that 33% degree of disability will not improve in case of people's lives, but, as you've already moved here, it will probably facilitate access to certain rights or services, which otherwise would not have, by trying to access treatment as soon as possible. And, therefore, this group, given the obviousness and the fact that it has already been adopted on other occasions, will vote favourably for this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u362	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u363	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will also support this initiative, which I believe has already been perfectly defended by the previous Members. It is surprising that the associations themselves have to demand from the Government of Greece to ask the Government of the State to approve initiatives already approved in different chambers. And what this initiative takes is to listen to the associations themselves, to listen to the demand of these associations, which means disability with neurodegenerative diseases, the need to modify the barriers. We know in addition to the delay that they have on many occasions in this barrier to disability, we know it for all kinds of disability, both physical and psychic, as in this case neurodegenerative diseases. We understand that, as the associations themselves explain, people who take care of the sick and the sick, and as explained by the rapporteur of the initiative are diseases that have different courses, different speeds, that on many occasions when the recognition of that disease is much more advanced. I mean, it's absolutely fair. Either of the two points, which are heard by associations, which are worked together with the knowledge that they already have these neurodegenerative disabilities, and the second point that is fundamental, which is that 33% recognition, which has a lot of implications for people's everyday life. That's why the surprise that we have to reiterate an initiative already debated in other chambers so that the Government of the State may be called by the German Government. Of course, we also have to congratulate the work that associations do every day, in particular those that work in the field of Alzheimer's disease, which are--I think--known and that have also made many people know a little more what neurodegenerative diseases are. And, basically, what I also call a reflection of Members and Members, who are constantly bringing the same things into the debate, and if we do not think that this can make people who are suffering every day these diseases or people who are forming part of these associations feel not discouraged that they have to turn to parliamentary groups on repeated occasions, turn to the legislative chambers for issues that are simply fair, and this is a clear example. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u364	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u365	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I would like to greet the people who accompany us and welcome this parliament. Ask him to apologize for an incision I'm going to make before we begin the intervention of the subject we're talking about. Mrs. Solla, I hope you will remind the Government of the Red Seas of Coruña that the motions must be carried out, for they have already publicly said that the motions which are approved by most in Coruña do not comply with them. Don't say it's the others. And by going to the subject, we agree on most of the explanatory statement of your proposal. Indeed, neurodegenerative diseases have as a common clinical characteristic their progressive chronic course as their insidious onset, although not in all cases. This group of diseases includes the Azheimer, which is probably the most known of all, but also others such as parkinson, Creutzfeldt-Jakob's disease, Huntington's disease, ataxia, multiple sclerosis or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as the most prominent. Some, indeed, are of a sudden beginning; others, on the contrary, are of survival, even very short. Indeed, there is no etiological treatment because in many cases the origin of the disease is unknown, but there are still present and close advances that make us see a hope for the future for these people in the short and medium term. Treatments are palliative and symptomatic, although - as we said - with research perspectives in many fields and with a large number of products being studied. It is also true that the psychological impact of the sick and their caregivers, the incapacity for work, the loss of social skills or the deterioration of quality of life are factors to be considered in this group of pathologies. Galicia recently introduced the new Sergas 2020 Strategy, with its third strategic line: guiding the delivery structure of services to patients' needs and improving attention to chronicity, implies defining groups of patients with similar needs and adapting different services to their needs. In turn, one of the projects that is going to develop within a strategic line is precisely the improvement of care for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. It will require the development and implementation of an integrated or care procedure for neurodegenerative diseases, which will improve and increase the effectiveness of the care provided to these patients. On the other hand, in April of this year, the National Strategy of Neurodegenerative Diseases in Spain, by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, together with health advisers from all autonomous communities, within the framework of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, whose main lines are: prevention and improvement of diagnosis, personalized care for patients and the establishment of programs that facilitate the breathing of caregivers and caregivers of the affected persons. The autonomous communities will develop plans that integrate social and health care, also considering the need to make an individualized care plan for each patient taking into account the social risk. Other strategic lines addressed by the document are: raising society's awareness of the importance of neurodegenerative diseases, training of professionals and promoting online research such as epidemiological studies, risk factors, new pharmacological therapies or non-pharmacological treatments. These strategies, Galician and national, demonstrate the concern and interest that the Government of Galician Union and the Government of the State, and that of the rest of the autonomous communities, have for the collective of people affected by this group of diseases. Turning then to the motion for a resolution, at the first point, on taking into account by the Government of the State the specificities of these diseases in the process of reviewing and updating barriers, we fully agree. There is today a working group and a technical commission that is working on the development of a new barrier for the evaluation of this disability. With regard to the second point, where the Greek Government is urged to address the Spanish Government to request the change of the barrier, so that a percentage of 33% disability is recognised at the same time as the diagnosis, I have to say here that Mrs Ferreiro does not read what she puts on the proposal, but a change which sent us the Fagal following a consultation with this Member, and that is not what we are going to approve of what you have read, we are going to approve something else. I would like to point out that neurodegenerative diseases have as other groups of pathologies special characteristics that may require much more sensitivity in their follow-up, although it may be difficult to distinguish in any disease when applying general or specific evaluation criteria. I don't know whether technically or legally you will present any difficulty with this exception that is demanded in the proposal regarding the valuation that is made for any other pathology. The current scale, of course, already allows you to decide in the case of this group of diseases the highest percentage within the same functional class. Even in cases where 33 % is not reached, the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013 determines that these patients have recognized the right of access to disability prevention services. And we could also make exception criteria in the valuation priority by obviating the input order sometimes. I mean, there are open ways and possibilities for real improvements in the assessment of disability today. But understanding the difficulties faced by these sick and sick people, their caregivers and their families, and in order to speed up the assistance and provision of care services that improve the course and delay the evolution of these diseases, we will also support this second point, although the complex drafting of it makes it difficult to understand in its final line. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u366	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u367	Good afternoon again. In fact, Mr. Núñez Centeno, the second point I explained was because as I knew you had difficulty understanding it, because that's why we gave it to him easier, to see if he understood it better, to see if he had more support. So it's logical, isn't it? The problem is not that you approve, the problem is that you don't meet the agreements, and once again this and the other and the other are still going on. Five years ago this was approved in Congress and a few months ago it was also approved by the PP in the Madrid Community. So it would be absurd for the PP in this case to oppose this recognition, and when they're asking him for a very important number of sick people affected by these problems and you haven't just given them an answer. Therefore, I hope that you will move as soon as this agreement is reached and I thank you on behalf of my party for your support for this decision. For the future of care for Alzheimer's patients, when it's the epidemic of the 21st century, I think this point is very important. I hope you'll really meet with the approval of this camera. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u368	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. At the conclusion of the debate on non-legislative proposals, we shall proceed to the vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals We begin by voting for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of the Galaga Association of Numerous Families, which is a popular initiative, on the reduction of the VAT rate of leather. Voting of the proposal not a popular initiative law, promoted by the Galaga Association of Large Families and assumed by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the reduction of the VAT rate of leather. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u369	We are now voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the Galician Parliament's position on establishing a framework for working relationships and collective bargaining. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group was accepted and the other amendments were not accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ms. María Montserrat Prado Cores and Mr. Francisco Xesús Jorquera Caselas, on the position of the Galician Parliament regarding the establishment of a framework of labour relations and collective bargaining. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against 57. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u370	We are voting now that of the People's Parliamentary Group, on the request by the German Government to the Councils of Coruña, Lugo, Santiago de Compostela, Vigo and Ourense to take the necessary measures during 2016 to extend the free urban transport to those under the age of 18. The amendments were not accepted either by the Joint Group or by the Left-Galga Alternative Group or by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote of the Non-Law G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Don Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil and fourteen other Members, on the request by the Government of Galicia to the Councils of Coruña, Lugo, Santiago de Compostela, Vigo and Ourense for the adoption of the necessary measures during 2016 to extend the free urban transport to children under 18. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 8; abstentions, 24. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u371	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Ms Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the realization by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to ensure the maintenance of the production centres and Alcoa jobs in Galicia. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, at the initiative of Ms Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín and two other Members, on the realization by the Greek Government of the actions necessary to ensure the maintenance of the productive centres and the Alcoa jobs in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u372	We now vote on the proposal from the Joint Parliamentary Group on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficiencies reflected in the report submitted by the conservation organization of nature World Wildlife Fund - I don't know if I said so well, my English is limited, but I put all the good will to say so - in particular from the Plan Director of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] The amendment was not accepted. [[Murmurs.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Mixto, at the initiative of Ms. Monica Fernández Rodríguez and Ms. Maria Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the deficiencies reflected in the report submitted by the World Wildlife Fund Nature Conservation Organization regarding the Master Plan of the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u373	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the draft decree establishing the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the draft decree establishing the management of tourist apartments, tourist dwellings and tourist dwellings in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u374	We are now voting on the Proposal, from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the application by the Greek Government for the 20162017 course of a reduced tuition fee to all university students without the right to education from the old degrees and the new degrees established by the European Higher Education Area. An amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which was accepted and we therefore voted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members, on the application by the Government of Greece, for the 2016 2017 course, of a reduced tuition fee to all unauthorized university students coming from the old degrees and the new degrees established by the European Higher Education Area. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u375	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the demands to be made by the German Government to the Central Government in relation to the barrier for assessing the degree of disability of people with neurodegenerative diseases, and their processes of review and updating. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Don Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the barremo for the assessment of the degree of disability of people with neurodegenerative diseases, and their processes of review and updating. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u376	We turn to item 6 on the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and four other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the demographic situation of Galicia and its consequences for the economy and society
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u377	Mrs. Soneira has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u378	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm surprised that it's you, not because you think you don't have the capacity or the category, it's not that, it has nothing to do with it, and I know that either of your members can answer on behalf of the Government. But politics also are mostly gestures, and that the Social Affairs Adviser is sent to a subject like this, which is also a social problem, here there is no single issue, because it also denotes a certain perception of the problem since the Government. From our point of view, the demographic problem, essentially, is an economic problem and it's a labour problem; it also has to do with the birth rate, of course. But it turns out that if in an area we have a low birth rate, but it's not attractive to invest, there's little dynamism, we don't give other people the chance to get out of places where they're worse and they want to install, because they don't do it here. And they don't because conditions aren't the best, and if they're settled in other countries and other European regions, in our case, or in other parts of the world. And therefore--and I insist--don't you consider that I say this preamble for no harm to you or your advice and, of course, personally for nothing. But here are issues that go far beyond social affairs. Look, this interpellation - as you can verify - was registered in December and was the result of the data published by the IGE at that time on the year 2014. Unfortunately, last week the National Institute of Statistics published data that still accentuates the severity of the problem. What did he tell us? That Galicia last year had a negative balance of 12,269 people. And this isn't a new phenomenon, we've been seven consecutive years with negative balances. And there are other indicators that make this situation seem even more serious. Look, Galicia has an average age of three points above that of the state. We have an average age of more than 46 years, but it is not the same as the average age in the province of Co Ruin or Pontevedra that in the provinces of the interior. For example, in Ourense it is almost 50 years - data IGE -, 49.8, and the older 65 is more than a third of the population. How does the German Government, objectively, consider us to separate ourselves from ideologies, from parliamentary groups, from political groups, which, with a third of the population over the age of 65, with 50% of the population over 50 years old and where the percentage of passive classes is absolute, what business, economic dynamism, entrepreneur can you ask a society that has that data? This has devastating effects: desertification, lack of dynamism, increased social costs. The disproportion between social security contributors and preceptors is terrible in Galicia. Economists say it takes about 2.5 jobs to contribute to contributions, to a pensioner's perceptions. In Galicia we have half: 1.4. At this rate, right now we're no longer holding our pensions. In the state what the Government is doing is entering the reserve that others have left to cover the deficits we have. This month to pay the extra we'll come in, and if you don't see how you'll approve immediately. In our case, almost 25% of our population is receiving a contribution pension. You raise the perceptions of unemployment, of non-contributory pensions, of all kinds of help. Anyone who puts the accounts will realize -- worth the redundancy -- that the model is absolutely unsustainable. And if we don't look for a solution, we'll have a very serious, very serious, very serious problem. We have often heard from different members of the Government, and even the president of the I would like to point out that I do not propose, on these issues, because sometimes the president of the Together it feels like you're more to think than to look for solutions. Look, between the difference that there is, and I'm going to compress a lot of this, because actually the data--I invite your lordships to really make this among all of us aware of the problem and that they spend many hours at the IGE and look at the data, and I don't have time in ten minutes to put them all here--but the difference between the busy population that was between 2009 and today and unemployment--the only positive fact that we have is unemployment registered--but there's a difference between taxpayers and active population with registered unemployment that is only explained by the vocation that we have the Greeks that when we don't have a job, the conditions are insufferable and we don't have to live here or we can't live with the dignity that we believe we deserve, let's go. And that's why the balances too, I don't know where the data comes from, Mr. President of the Board, eh! Because I believe that a saving measure, following the theory of Mr. President of the Board in his reply today morning, is to suppress the IGE, because we have been in a row for three years with negative balances, and the province of Pontevedra has been in two more years. And you know that even in the years that we had a positive balance we had an added problem: we were given passive classes, emigrants who came here retired, with social costs added, but the worst was not even that, because immigrants we didn't receive either, because Galicia is not an attractive place to emigrate. You've noticed that of all the thousands and thousands of people from Lesbos, Greece and Turkey there is no demand to come to Spain unscathed, everyone is struggling to enter the northern borders to go to Germany, to go to the northern countries, not to Spain, and Galicia I think none of them. So Mrs. Acuña, when at the meeting of our group we talked about these matters and to put together the positions, she told me that she was in a certain place in Ourense and a conflict that was about whether or not she was building a tanatorium or not, a very older person was saying to complain about the administration: they don't let us live and now they won't let us die, because they complained that we weren't allowed to build a tanatorium. Counsellor, we are asking different questions here, which I believe you can answer in the name of the Government, and which do not have to do with all social affairs. For example, Mr President-in-Office of the Council says he is aware of the problem and feels about the problem, but has the Government designed any mechanism for studying, analysing and diagnosing the causes, evolution and consequences of the demographic phenomenon shown in this initiative? Because there are many researchers and demographers in Galicia who have proposed solutions, even some have done work on the evolution of demographics in Ireland, with very concrete measures that have been published in the press not so many days ago. Is there any project, initiative or strategy to address this worrying demographic trend? And please don't tell me there's a refund on the IRPF, which you know perfectly well that if we just put the prayer in passive now and ask, for a deduction from the IRP, we'll have a child or something? That doesn't seem reasonable. How many economic resources?, where?, in which departure?, in what temporary projection? Because these measures cannot be for a media announcement at a certain time and with an electoral purpose or not, even well-intentioned, because these are measures that have to have the general consensus of political forces, of society as a whole and, in addition, very prolonged over time. Does the Galician Board consider that the register of unemployed - Inem - reflects the country's labor reality? Because EPA doesn't say that, and because the busy people don't say that, and the population we have now, the active population doesn't say that. And a question that seems fundamental to me, besides has been out in the press not long ago, with graphics like these, which are terrible--this is the literal photocopy of a page of a newspaper from Galicia--. How do you marry that reality with the minue of affiliation to Social Security and the number of busy people? Because there will have to be some explanation for these figures to be so good, and they are the ones used by Mr. President of the Union when he talks about unemployment -- he always refers to unemployment registered -- and they are so bad when we talk about EPA, when we talk about the number of busy people and when we talk about affiliates and contributors to Social Security. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u379	Thank you very much, Mrs. Soneira. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is very important from now on that we are talking about demography in this Parliament, and the more we talk about much better demography, because it is undoubtedly one of the main problems we have in the present and which we will have in particular in the future of Galicia. Indeed, many of the things that appear in this interpellation -- as Mrs. Soneira said -- do not correspond to the Social Policy Council, but this is about the government's cross-sectoral theme. Addressing demographic policies should not be exclusively in a council, although the new Council for Social Policy has been included among its powers to have the competences in the Directorate-General of the Family in the field of demographics, as set out in the decree ordering the competences of members of the Government of Galicia. And, by the way, in the budget we have right now is the top general address in the whole of Galicia, exactly at 40 percent. The demographic problem is not unique to Galicia. It is a structural problem that already affects many Spanish regions and the rest of Europe. The demographic situation in our community didn't happen overnight. We've been dragging a reality that needs to be done for decades. We have accumulated three decades, thirty years - in particular, since 1986 - of negative vegetative balances. In this matter we must be realistic, we must realize that there are no immediate solutions, that we need a stable demographic policy, especially if it has continuity in time, as the European countries have done that have acted successfully on demographic issues. Freezing the population decline is a real priority for the Government of what I'm part of, and I'm sure it's also for this whole camera. It's a goal we've been addressing from three vertices: One, at supranational level, under pressure in the European Union and claiming to Brussels that demography counts for the execution of European funds. At the state level, through the necessary coordination with other autonomous communities and administrations. A good example is the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges that Galicia leads alongside the CastileA Mancha, Castile and León, Extremadura, Asturias and Aragon. As you see, with governments from different political parties, we have very clear that this is a topic of strategic future. Last June 6, Galicia hosted the fifth interterritorial meeting of this forum. And at this meeting the representatives of the participating autonomous executives insisted on the need for a state pact to place the demographic problem at the centre of the debate, as a priority of all Spain and also to provide demographic policies with the necessary funding. It is crucial to make demographic policies, but as any policy that we want to encourage from the Community, what we need is stronger funding, so that these policies are policies that can reach more people. Not only that, the European part that we have had the opportunity to move and that we will continue to move - because it has agreed in the forum - to Brussels, and we are working with different Members of the Commission to move forward before the end of the year, before the next meeting of this forum. At the state level - as I say - in what is the financing and the state pact, essential at the moment. And autonomic level we're doing things, too. From the Councillor's office, we have launched the Christmas Support Programme. You're right, because not for a help a family will decide to have a child, but what we can say is that Galicia has to have is the best conditions for those who freely want to have a child. In 2013 we launched the Plan of Demographic Dynification of Galicia 20132016. We also approved in 2013 the Strategy for the early prevention and detection of dependency in Horizon 2020. In addition, in December 2014, Galicia's Social Inclusion Strategy. And something very important, very recently, the Strategic Plan of Galicia 20152020, which includes -- as at the beginning of my intervention -- the cross-sectional goal of dynamization and demographic revitalization, establishing a comprehensive package of measures, to advance the goal of creating a favourable social environment for living in Galicia, a favourable social environment for having a family, a favorable environment, ultimately, for those who freely want to have children or daughters to have them. We are certainly missing the continuity of those policies. And that's why we feel very important that, just as we speak on many health occasions, as we speak on many educational occasions, we really push a pact of parties around the demographic issue, in Galicia, but also across the whole of the state, because -- I insist -- many autonomous communities already have in Spain the problem that we've been dealing with in Galicia. We therefore have strategies, we have tools, but of course, as it says in its interpellation, we need a permanent diagnosis so that this does not remain in written papers, in parliamentary resolutions. And that's why we approve the creation of the Galego Demographic Dynamics Observatory, with the aim of facilitating the detailed knowledge of the Greek demographic reality and advising the Greek public administrations on the momentum of the demographic perspective in the development and design of their policies, which will involve many experts and many social representatives from Galicia. We have the tax deductions from what he was talking about, the highest in Spain, for birth and adoption, for child care, for children under the age of 3. We increased by 20% that deduction by birth or adoption of children for residents in municipalities of 5,000 inhabitants. We created the Welcome card this year, and thousands of families are enjoying it right now. And, as you know, conciliation policies are fundamental, so we created the good Council, so at this moment we have already published in the Official Journal of Galicia the children's schools around business -- we've already had some meetings with representatives of Galicia's industrial polygons and they've seen with very good eyes this initiative that the children could not stay in the nearest home, but near where their parents and their mothers work -- and, of course, the little houses. Last week, on Wednesday, June 23, the application deadline for the creation of children's homes was completed in the next year. And I can inform the House - there is a member who has a special interest in visiting the second child house - I can tell you that today we have registered more than eighteen applications; that is why it will be a reality within this year. [[Murmurs.]] A minimum of eighteen, yes! [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, it's eighteen municipalities that have no conciliation appeal and are now going to have it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're eighteen municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, and they're eighteen municipalities in our rural area that deserve the same conciliation rights as cities, really. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The second one, I'm going to try to summarize because I'm running out of time. With regard to employment data, unemployment fell again in 16,517 people over a year ago, it's a decline of 7%, it's increased membership by 1.26% over a year ago, there are 11,841 more affiliates, and our community closed the first quarter of 2016 with 47,800 unemployed less than a year ago. [[Murmurs.]] I think data shows us a much better path than we've lived in the last few years, both in terms of the number of unemployed and in the number of busy people who exceed the million right now. But indeed, the interpellation is the month of December, and still this morning the President of the Council of Galicia referred to this data and, therefore, I think it is not appropriate for me to repeat it at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u381	Thank you, Counselor. Replica roll, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u382	Counselor, I'm the truth that on this subject I'd rather not make blood, I'm serious. Do you want a pact and a serious matter? We'll see him at the next plenary session in the motion we'll present, and we'll talk. But if you do, it's true what Mr. President said in the morning, I collected today's data--in today's hot hot, hot--and it's true: busy, 1,021.100, but in 2009 there were 1,142,200. I mean, of course, you take me and we have a sick, a patient with 40 degrees of fever and when you're 39.5 is getting better, but you still have a demon fever, you know? Let's see if we're clear. That's the question, and the patient is not out of danger yet; it's more, it's still serious, very serious. Of course, when you tell me you're getting better--the data Mr. President always gives, you too--with regard to last year, but with respect to 2009 we still have 60,300 more stops, you understand? The only positive data - I've told you - is registered unemployment. Why? Because people don't get unemployed, man, they don't go to the offices of the Inem, they don't, they go. And you know that like me, and I'm not going to enter it anymore. Look, you say, it's important to talk about demography. I agree, but the most important thing is to act. We can philosophy everything we want, but the sooner we look for a solution to this, we'll have a serious problem. Look, we have presented modest initiatives here. For example, in the budgets 5 million for the return of the talent he emigrated, of young people, with credits, not even with deep-lost grants; credits to be returned in the very long term so that the projects will carry them out here, return and go to those municipalities. Because you tell me, you help with birth. Where?, any municipality in Ourense where they don't even have children, who may have a birth every two or three years, and every time there's a lady who has a child there's a municipal party and they literally throw rockets in that municipality? Do you think that for some birth that may be in some rural municipality, in the interior of Galicia, in devastating regression demographically, really, do you think that this is a measure to get out of this? Well, I don't know. Look, you tell me about services, support, lots of measures. The feeling that I had when I listened to you is like the one that's at sea in a pneumatic raft and you're going to hit it all over the place, now I put one here, another here and another here and I can't do it. But if you do, when we talk about education, I'm not even going to go into the macro clippings anymore, we can't have the same tack or the same consideration when we talk -- what do I know? - to a municipality of Lugo Mountain or the interior of Ourense that when we talk about a city. So the criterion for closing schools because there's no student can't be the same. This is not a measure. When we talk about health measures, we talk about it; when we dismantle the health centres and concentrate them on certain points, we're disincentivizing the permanence in the territory. But let's see, if even the banks have removed the offices, which we now see a row, and tomorrow, tomorrow, all the old men in rural Galicia will have to resort to someone who takes them to the municipal capital, if there's luck, and if the municipality is small to the comarcal capital, to collect the pension, because they've already removed all the branches from all sides. I mean, the important thing is the result account and that Abanca, which we practically give it, divides them this year, which is an incredible thing, is incredible. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, the honourable Member laughs but that's the truth, that's a trick. Those who bought Abanca are some phenomena, I mean, they bought something that was going to ruin, but this year they're already sharing dividends, and a couple of years ago this was... well, I don't want to go into this anymore because I don't have time. Look, investments and European funds. Until 2013, more than 15 billion euros, and what do we invest in?, by improving the conditions for setting up population in rural areas and for immigrants, for example, or our emigrants to return because they see an opportunity? Counsellor, you would be surprised to know how many millions of euros we've spent on mirrors with European money that today are literally lots of absolutely abandoned gestures, invaded by fire from time to time, when not destroyed by the boars, because there's no one to control--these are indeed that they proliferate and have a very high birth. That's what my colleague Dolores Villarino called "fine rain," that of contenting everyone with European money, because they came to us for votes, but not for anything else. [[Murmurs.]] The demographic reality of Galicia is what it is. And we have the country in literal danger of disappearing, because if there's no dynamism and if we're just passive classes, we're even dependent on the outside. Because at a time when someone says he doesn't want to keep up with the pensions of the Greeks, we're going to have a problem, because right now we're not able to cover the pensioners we have inside the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u383	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u384	If you want a pact, Mr. Counsellor, tell the chief, the president, and in the next plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u385	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u386	All right, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I really think we need a pact, I don't know if it's in the next plenary or when the groups want it. But, of course, in the demographic challenge they buy clear, transversal policies and with continuity over time, that go beyond governments, but above all, that they are able to overcome the parties, because it's not only about overcoming the minds of the parties that occupy the government, but on many other occasions it's about going over minds, tactics that often exist between parties, when I think it's a very clear subject and we have examples of countries where they have worked precisely for that. For example, in France since the 1930s, demographic policies have stability. Look, republics have gone through in France and governments in France, but they're still applying, of course, very serious policies on demographics, which have done their effects. There are no magic policies, as you know, but there are of course formulas to make our community a better place to live and a better place to have a family, to have children and also to have adults, really. Because, in fact, there are some data that are distorted as a result of the fact that there are more in Galicia than in other communities. Possibly the word so used of "aging" I think it's a too technical word to define what are the greatest in our community. [[Murmurs.]] That's why I think we should not have to have less, but consider an opportunity and not a problem, have so much bigger in our community. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] It has to be compatible, of course, so that the economic equation works with more youth, more children and more children. [[Murmurs.]] I was wondering if the Galician Union has designed any mechanism for studying, analysing and diagnosing the causes, evolution and consequences of the migratory phenomenon. I said earlier, from the Government we have taken the institutional initiative to create the Galego Observatory for Demographic Dynamication, which has been created very recently, with specific functions: to compile, analyse and exchange relevant information from the demographic point of view; to define and implement indicators to measure demographic variables; to carry out and disseminate studies and works that are of interest from the demographic point of view; to identify initiatives and experiences, pilot projects, resources and reference programmes on demographic dynamization; to formulate proposals and recommendations as well as strategies and priorities for action in Galicia's public policies; to carry out a permanent follow-up on the evolution of demographic dynamics; and to develop reports on this situation. I'm telling you that before this legislation is over, all members of this chamber will have information on all the challenges that are expected in this observatory, because we'll be working all summer on this initiative. The second question is whether there is any project, initiative or strategy before the current demographic drift. The demographic dynamisation plan and the birth support program, the Galician NAP, with its three action axes: the NAP aids, the NAP services and the Conciliation NAP. Third. Today Galicia devotes more resources than ever before to social policies, and those of family, childhood and demographic dynamization are around for the first time and far away from what they've had throughout the history of autonomy. About a hundred million euros are being allocated this year 2016, which allows us to implement many new actions by which the Government of Galicia is decisively betting. What's your goal? - ask-- : lay the groundwork for living in a Galician more years old, but also in a Galician with a higher life expectancy. That's why this government includes the demographic perspective on the design and development of its strategies, actions and policies to generate favourable contours for the development of vital projects in Galicia. This is what this council and this government understand, and also other autonomous governments, of different political parties, with which we are working, with the proposed objectives for this September, at the next Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, our priority, indeed, is the people, the people who need us most: the new children, the new children, the children who are already in Galicia and our older ones. That's why we're going to keep working for them, considering that they're an important part of our society, because they've contributed a lot to our society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u387	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u388	That's why I'm also very glad as an advisor of what we've approved a few minutes ago in this parliament to help those who need us most. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u389	Thank you, Counselor. Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the Prevention and Defence Policy against the Forest Fires of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u390	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u391	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. Welcome to the Seaga workers who have accompanied us since today's guest gallery. Counsellor, when you leave or end the lullaby with the Social Policy Counsellor, for you can answer the same thing, because questions, if I remember correctly, will be addressed to you, specifically, and for that reason you are here, to answer the questions. We are two days away from starting our country's most fire-threatening season and, therefore, from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we believe it is more than appropriate to make a review of what the starting point is to deal with that campaign at the greatest risk. First of all, I have to say that a few weeks ago the Pladiga was approved and made public for 2016, which could be -- let's say -- sum up with three features: On the one hand, it's about a simple cut and it's about previous years' plans. Secondly, which is absolutely scientific, because the Government of Galician Union, once the Pladiga was approved, came out in all the media, estimating that this year they were going to reduce forest fires in Galicia by 8%. And I swear to you, I've checked the memory, the attachments, the third document and I haven't found anywhere on which the Government of Galician Union is based to make that estimate, if we're going to be given more candles to the Greeks and to the Greeks so that when we see that it's been four or five days without rain, we put in some candles, and so that's the method to reduce the fires, because of course there's no other evidence or empirical data on which an estimate or forecast of that kind can be based. And, finally, we can characterize the Pladiga with another statement, which is that as always is a great lie; apart from being scientific, it is a great lie. Why is that a big lie? First of all, -- and then we'll talk about it later -- because there's no serious prevention anywhere on the Pladiga, starting because if it's approved in June, it can hardly be a forest fire prevention plan. It's a big lie because every year you repeat the mantra that there are 7,000 people working on the mountain when, if you thoroughly analyze the Pladiga, you can see that you include squares that are not covered, squares that are vacant by any circumstance, and of course include this year as well as air media that will not exist, because you include four cargo planes on the Pladiga, two based in Ourense and two based in Lugo, which we already know that for this season there will not be them, precisely in one of the provinces, in one of our southern areas of the province of Lugo and the whole province of Ourrense where there are most forest fires. It's also a lie because you in the Pladiga have a number of helicopter bases and, at least, Valdeorras', apparently, you don't know if this year's going to work either. a big lie because you make a high-risk forest fire-related relationship, and we don't find any correlation in which this involves the detection that in these areas there is a high risk of forest fire and that in these areas more prevention has been done, or that these areas have more means to fight forest fires. But the worst thing about Pladiga, however, is none of these issues I just listed. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, the most serious of the Pladiga for 2016 is that it persists in a model of prevention and fight against absolutely failed forest fires. You can take out the 2006 figures every time you want them, but the truth is, they're spending more and more resources to put out fires in our country, there's more and less forest fires, but there's more and more fires in our country's mountain. If that doesn't seem like a failure, Counselor, with fewer fires, more spent money, bigger burnt surface, for God will come and see him. I'd like you to think about it and answer me here. With these data over the last few years, as though the number of fires, 60%, is not reduced by the same proportion of the burnt surface, I would like you to say here, if you are able to respond, if in an adverse context where you could produce 200 daily fires, by putting a figure, which has had more periods of daily fires, which would happen in this country, if you last year, a day like the day of thequaledro fire, which there were five fires active throughout Galicia, were unable to extinguish a fire like that of Cualedro, and you came to destroy a huge amount of hectares. The most serious of this situation is that they persist in a model, Counsellor, absolutely fractionate, tending increasingly to privatize and precariously fire extinguishing and, unfortunately, tending to deprofessionalization. I know that the PPs are going to say that when we talk about deprofessionalization, we're criticizing the workers; no, we're not criticizing the workers, we're criticizing a policy of the Galician Union that precisely decapitalizes and deprofessionalizes a device that has very good professionals, who has very trained, very experienced and very capable workers. But those who, of course, cannot ask for them, nor those who contract themselves every year as they did discontinuous them through the recruitment lists of the Galician Union, nor those who are hired through the Seaga public company for the most risky season, who are the best professionals, the best trained, those who have the most ability, those who know the territory best, and who are at the disposal of the Union all year round to work with a little luck. I say with a bit of luck, Counselor, because a sentence has just emerged in a collective conflict presented precisely by the workers of the Seaga public enterprise against that company, because it is not even fulfilled the times of the management order. And the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia gives the workers of the Seaga public enterprise the reason that, at least, if you have to fulfill the management order time when you hire them. Today is June 29th, and the order has not yet been made to the public company. You tell the media I know they'll do it tomorrow at the board meeting. Do you know what day it represents what will be hired and at your disposal, your government and your device the Seaga workers? Well, guess what about July 20th, as soon as possible, with a little luck. So, Counsellor, you recapitulate yourself, which is the first year that will be faced with forest fires in our country, and, of course, even if you don't think so, I wish you much luck in that task, you recapitulate yourself and tell us if you think it is appropriate to continue to maintain a service with more and more precarious workers and that, of course, they escape as soon as they can from that service to find a job in better conditions. And, therefore, we cannot have the best at the disposal of the Union if we only have them working for three months a year. And, of course, it's not because there's nothing to do in the Greek mountain except to put out fires when they occur, because another aspect that you have absolutely neglected is prevention. It's unheard of, Counselor: you hire the workers for three months and you want them to do prevention and put out fires at the same time. I'd like to see you, Counselor, go to work at eight in the morning, spend four or five hours with the debatant doing prevention work and at twelve in the morning or at one go out a fire and have to catch and run through the mountain with the hose and bats to put out that fire, to see what conditions you can do that work. So the conclusion is that it's not worth doing prevention or extinction, the only thing it's worth is risking, in the best of cases, the physical integrity and the lives of people. And speaking of prevention, can you deny me here, to companies, who also privatized prevention jobs instead of ordering the Seaga public company, who has nine months a year without charge, or subsidies, even in many cases had to pay subsidies that were granted to them by the Public Employment Service? Instead of hiring it with the public company Seaga, they hired more than seventy million euros with private companies to do prevention jobs. Can you make sure these prevention jobs are done before mid-August, which is the date...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u392	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u393	...have they given the companies they've been given to? Those, among other things, in addition to what you have entered, are the questions we want you to give us. Because we consider, Counselor, that with the measures they have taken since their council, Galicia today, June 29, 2016, you are not in a position to deal with an adverse conflict in forest fires. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Replica, Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u394	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, thank you very much for wishing me luck, but luck is for all of Galicia, it's not just for me. And luck is also for those professionals that you say--for me they are true professionals--with whom I lived and lived when I was touched by a fire. Of course, I haven't been suffocating him, but neither do you suffocate him by bringing that shirt, believe me, help them differently and not just with a shirt. Regardless of all that I... there, I am today... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u395	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u396	I see too much noise in these benches, I don't really know what it's due to. Regardless of the questions you've been posing, I have eight writings, and I think there are some I'm going to answer back, because I think you're going to pick up some companions with others; i.e. they've agreed to ask today about the fires, about Seaga, but they've divided the questions into themselves, and i think it's good that you answer depending on what I'm going to have. So, well, tell him, first of all, that sometimes I had to hear here that we had no idea what the districts were doing because the districts really didn't do anything. I mean, when there's staff in the audience, let's put ourselves next to them, and when there's no staff in the audience, because it's said that it makes people in the districts that we have no idea, nor do they. It wasn't exactly you, Mrs. Peace, but it was one of the other comrades. And that, in addition, is there--I suppose in the Journal of Sessions--collected. What am I doing? Well, of course, I'm not taking the hose, but we're moving forward in a positive way, and it's, firstly, that 100% of the vacancies have been filled, Mrs Peace; 100% of the vacancies. That's on the one hand. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we're not going to share candles, what we have to share is awareness that there are no incendiaries, so that from day one there are no fires, and that's where we're going to try to work. But as one of the first questions is, what are you planning to do about setting up the forest fire fighting device in Galicia and taking into account the new fire typology? Well, allow me, first of all, to show my surprise for his demonstration about a new forest fire typology. I think it's my first news, I don't know what it means. Galicia has over 30,000 local population entities, and therefore that high number of places scattered throughout the territory causes sometimes forest fires to actually occur near them. To protect these nuclei, since you asked me on that line--though then here came other questions the collation, which will be answered throughout this afternoon--yes if you consider in existing legislation the obligation to maintain secondary age ranges with managed biomass; i.e., in 30 meters there can be no pine trees, eucalyptus or acacias, and then, in the following, you have to be peeled and with clear trees. And here we all have a responsibility: this administration, which is self-government, the Conseilaria do Medio Rural and also the municipalities, and I had that responsibility before. The design of this fire device is based on the occurrence of the fires predicted by the statistics of recent years. I mean, according to what happened and adapted to the times. Budgets allocated annually are also drawn up in this same sense, so in the event that there is a very important variation in that scenario, those forecasts would have to be modified. And you were talking about Qualedro last year, but you who ruled at a given time--and I also ruled, but in another entity--I think that with fire you don't play, because we can end up burning, and that was a dramatic moment; and besides the Qualedro, also when you were ruling. Planning must be developed on the basis of previous data, which is exactly what the Pladiga does, whose firefighting personnel device composes its own brigades, brigades from public companies, county brigades and businesses. And, in fact, tomorrow at the Council of the Union - and although I will be in Madrid defending the CAP in Galicia, which I suppose will also be done by the rest of the political parties, against what Andalucia asks - will also go to the Council of the Union's management order to hire Seaga's staff. This device works at all times under a single command, a single command that is structured, at the level of fires: with the district extinction director, with the provincial district coordination centre, with the provincial coordination centre and, in central services, through the central coordination centre. The operation and effectiveness of the single operating command is independent of the membership of the extinction brigades, since under that command the whole device is unified and proper coordination is ensured. And I'm sure that this is not only coordination, but the staff that is hired both through Seaga and through the municipalities or different companies, as well as the staff that belongs directly to the Rural Council. Therefore, there is no fragmentation of the device, the device is founded -- I insist -- in principle, and that principle is the one-mandated principle. Besides, and according to the prevailing legislation, forest fire is the fire that extends uncontrolledly under forest fuels located on the mountain, but we already know that one thing is what is said in what is Vigilant legislation and another thing is reality, because that reality is that fire doesn't understand about traps and therefore not only forest areas, it also affects land, but even urban nuclei and also rural nuclei. That's why it is so necessary to collaborate with all the administrations that may be involved, and that are increasingly involved, is the case with the local administration. In addition, the Galician board collaborates with the councils with agreements, and agreements in which they hire staff, and that staff I'm sure it's totally professional, like the rest of the staff that works through Seaga those three months. There are people who, repeatedly, work in the Town Councils... it would only be necessary if you were here to say that these people were not professional. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, I understand that people who, in one way or another, are working, are because there's been some evidence, and therefore, after passing those tests, they do everything possible to be genuine professionals. And how does Cunta de Galicia participate? They're telling me about the Pladiga and how the Pladiga develops, even though you've been changed to Seaga on this question. For it participates through the defence against fires through the operation of municipal-owned motorcycle vehicles, financed by own funds from the Autonomous Community; also through the carrying out of preventive treatments in a mechanized way, financed by EAFRD funds; by the hiring of brigades for the development of surveillance and defence work, financed by own funds from the Autonomous Community; and by the carrying out of preventive work in a manual way, financed by EAFRD funds. We also count on the collaboration agreement between the Galician Union, the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and the provincial deputies on emergency matters. In the area of emergencies, what is needed is to unite forest fire prevention and defence in the creation of the so-called GHGs, Supreme Emergency Groups. This cooperation is collected in Article 8 of Law 3/2007 of 9 April, and therefore we are not talking - as you said in the explanatory statement, and then in your questions - that we are going back, that it is a model that is no longer right to be, but quite the opposite. I mean, in the fires we must all be involved, and not for me to be lucky, but for Galicia to be lucky. For these reasons for this year, and as envisaged in the Pladiga, there are no changes in the design of the operation in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the real objective of the Pladiga is to minimize the environmental and economic damage caused by forest fires in the Autonomous Community of Galicia within available resources. But within the available resources, tell them that Galicia has the greatest operation, no doubt, against fires. According to the actual objective, it is established - as in previous years - certain forecasts, certain forecasts and forecasts in which it is not only random numbers given by the Rural Middle Council, but behind it are true professional ones, which are the ones that give us the following lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u397	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u398	Look, Counselor, with all due respect. After the intervention you had in relation to forest fires, to the number of common places and topics that you've come to repeat here in relation to forest fires, that you dare to talk about professionalism you have nightmares; and to say that everyone, including those of the municipal brigades, passes a few tests, because they must be like those you've passed to be advisor and to have accreditation to be responsible for the fire policy and the forest policy of this country. To speak with all due respect, Counselor. [[Applause]] Because look, a Middle Rural Councilman from Galicia is coming here and trying to figure out that there is a new type of forest fire in our country, which has been happening repeatedly since 2005, should be a reason for resignation. And that you... [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes, it should be grounds for resignation, Counsellor, that you do not know that the typology of forest fires in our country is changing, that they are certainly changing, too, the causes behind forest fires. But as you go through everything and dismantle the forest fire research brigades--that no longer exist anywhere but on paper--they dismantle everything altogether because they are genuine irresponsible ones, you can afford luxury here, without getting colored, to come to say that this is the new kind of forest fires. So look, I tell you, go to any district in the country and ask any worker on the device, those who work for three months, fifteen days, nine months or the whole year, officials, laborers or Seaga, and ask them if there's a new forest fire typology or not. And whether or not we have to investigate which causes are behind this new kind of forest fire. And ask him whether that would not force a responsible government to rethink its policy of combating forest fires. And look, Counselor, we in the third question you have in writing were talking about whether you're going to keep holding the option of fractionating the device and whether you think that's effective. To me, really, you will have to convince me with data that it is effective to replace beluga workers - who were previously hired through the public enterprise Seaga and who were effective, who were professional people and who were trained - if it is more effective to hire them to Natutechnia. You'll have to convince me, if that's the case. If it is more effective than if 2,000 workers are assigned -- as it was done -- through the public company Seaga, 500 are now assigned to Seaga and the rest are hired through the municipal brigades, what do you know what they're called in many municipalities? The scissors. Because in the end, the municipalities use these workers for everything but to do the work they have to do, which is prevention and fight against forest fires. And you can think of everything you want, but that's the reality. That's the reality in the villages of our country, and that's a real dismantling of the forest fire fighting device in our country. Look, we could--it's that I don't have time, I have a minute and twenty-eight--but you probably don't know, because at the time I wasn't a counselor and you were so rich there in Melide trying to convince the gentlemen that they hadn't mobilized for milk prices. But last year in that quaaledro fire those municipal brigades, so professional, when they called them -- I'm not going to say the council, because the workers don't have the blame -- from a town council in the south of Lugo to go to the quaaledro, it turns out that as they're so professional they were 11 at night when they had to go out and it turns out that the bomb had no gas oil, and they had to go from a town hall to the south-west of Lugo province to a municipality in the south-east of Lugo province, 40 kilometers away, to see if there were any gas station opened on a Sunday evening at 11 o'clock. And when they arrived at the Qualedro to try to help extinguish the fire, it turns out that if they had finished their shift and they had to take and turn around, and leave again. But this is not anecdote, this is the reality of a device that is designed not to extinguish fires, but to pay favors to the mayors with these municipal brigades and for the mayors, in turn, to do what seems best to maintain their chiringuit with those municipal brigades. And I invite you, Counselor, to ask the archive of this Parliament to give it to you -- you should also have it in your advice -- reports from the forest agents of 2006 and to tell you what was going on with the municipal brigades. His soul will fall to his feet, his soul will fall to the feet of the people in this country, houses, properties, mountains, the lives of the workers of the device...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u399	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u400	...because the municipal brigades are mayors' heritage, and the motorcycles have the key to the mayor, or the garage key to the mayor, and if he didn't want it, he didn't give the key to anyone. That's in public officials' reports. You can put all the stupid faces you want, Counselor. And those reports are in the archives of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u401	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u402	And the only thing I'm telling you, Counselor, is that unfortunately in this country we have a very serious problem on our mountain. And the frivolity, the frivolity of taking advantage of that we've had many summers, fortunately, in which weather conditions have been quite favorable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u403	Finish it, Mrs. Peace. Look at the weather, look at the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u404	...so that no misfortune would occur to dismantle, privatize and leave our mountain unprotected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u405	Look at the time, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u406	...that's it, a frivolity, and I ask you not to go out in frivolity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u408	Thank you, President. Mrs. Tareixa, I don't know what merits I had-- Teresa, Teresa, sorry, or Toreixa, don't you?, it's also said so in Greek, that I know-- Mrs. Peace, come on, Mrs. Peace, I don't know what merits I had to be an advisor, you present yourself to some municipalities, take 60 percent of your votes, and then you'll pass, yes or no, an exam. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I'd like to introduce you, take that result away and from there because you already have a little test, and that better test than to have it next to your house. I think I should ask forgiveness, and I should ask forgiveness to those 1,500 people who are hired through the brigades that call for the Town Councils, which by the way are not just Town Councils of the People's Party, are also Councils of the BNG and the PSOE. I mean, here the mayors are all merchants and therefore there's no free competition, and they're all plugging, and, poor thing, that's the dumbest thing in the town that's going to sweep. No, that's not, Mrs. Peace! That's not it! It's 1,500 people doing a very important job, and the mayors, which I know, aren't any merchants. Regardless of all that, tell them that we work, and we work a lot, and I'm proud of that. For example, opposition has not been convened for many years, and there are 188 squares, I hope it was 1,800, but it's 188! He had been told earlier that one hundred percent of the vacancies are covered, among other things, and that Seaga's staff have a choice--and in fact many are not in Seaga because they have that option--to be able to fill those vacancies. For example, he says at a certain point that there are no research teams. Well, I told them I've been together with them last week, but well, it's that maybe they've fooled me and they're not such research teams, it's the same way they charge for it but they're nobody; i.e., go, go to Pontevedra and you'll find research teams, for example. Well, I, regardless of many other things, Mrs. Paz, who could follow one after another by telling him, I think we have to be a little more serious and respectful, and that it's not just a simple shirt, that we have to deal with the subject of fires more deeply. And that within that deeper depth--and as you said--there won't be those planes. We actually started a process, a process in which the first call is not deserted, a second call left deserted, and we chose to hire helicopters. And so that, indeed, everyone is calm, for to tell them that there are already 13 helicopters hired, for example, because it looks like we're suddenly not going to have any helicopter. Apart from these thirteen helicopters hired by the Galician Union, three more are in competition, as well as one in coordination, each of them with two helicopters, devices to which we have to add two helicopters from the Ministry of Agriculture and two police surveillance, which are also more than necessary. Besides, we have to add up the two amphibious ministry planes, operating from last morning, and two more cargo on the ground. Then, too, to note that a total of thirty-two helicopters will be incorporated, with which the hours of the air media with brigades are larger than in previous years. Since the planes don't carry the corresponding brigade, but if the helicopters take it, unlike the helicopters, there will be more fire fighting on the ground. As it is easily deductible from the exposure, the air media, along with the ground personnel, will be superior this year. But not only is it about extinguishing fires, it's also about continuous surveillance and awareness, because the fires don't appear because yes, the fires appear because someone sets fires, and it gives the impression that we have an interest in this being a hecatomb and there are sensible people in Galicia, and therefore that shouldn't be the case. Regardless, prevention is carried out throughout the year and it is a prevention that not only does public administration, but it is also the obligation of individuals; that is, each one has an obligation to keep his land clean, and we demand it from here, but also the municipalities from where it belongs. The Board, therefore, has at this moment widely covered your device and continues a line of work, a line of work which, as you well said, is on the Pladiga; therefore, it is not a matter of leaving a simple message, a message of catastrophe, but quite the contrary, with a summary, and this summary is: an effort is being made and I would like that Seaga staff, just as the staff of the Galician Union did, like the city council staff, rather than having three months of work, but that's an order for a given moment, which are the fires, and they're for three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u409	Thank you, Counselor. La Maria Concepción Burgo López and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the decrease of teaching staff and researcher in the university system of Galicia in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u410	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u411	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen, Counselor. Well, we want to discuss this afternoon a problem that you know perfectly well, one of the serious problems that the Greek university system is now having, the three universities in Galicia, three universities that have already suffered the significant and serious consequences of the strong budget cuts. As you know, the cuts made by the Galician Union have lost 15% of the income to universities these years, leading them to an economic level similar to 2005. But above all, in addition to this, we have another problem, which is the reinstatement rate imposed by Mr. Rajoy's Government, first of 10% in retirements and then to 50%. A replenishment rate that's bringing about huge consequences in the form of a decline in teaching staff and researchers in the Greek university system, as well as administrative and service staff, if it's true that it's to a lesser extent. Some universities that are losing, you know, Counselor, the most important capital, the most important resource, which is the human resource. Using official university data, at universities you know that between 2010 and 2014 the German university system lost a minimum of 400 teachers, 7.5 % of the staff it had in 2010, a very significant loss that is confirmed by the latest report by CRUE, reflecting the decrease of the professor of 7.5 % at the University of Vigo and 7.3% at the University of Santiago, far above the national average - as you know, Counsellor - which is found at 5.74 %. In the personal investigator the loss is even greater, because it has other careers, other ways of losing staff. Between 2010 and 2014, 467 researchers disappeared in universities, 19.5% of the existing ones in 2010. As you once told me that all this depended--it was your fault--of Zapatero, who imposed the fee, and so that we could have a cordial and rigorous debate, I made the accounts of how much we lost with Zapatero and how much we lost with Mr. Rajoy. And with Mr. Zapatero's replacement rate, the number of teachers in the Greek university system has fallen by 0.5%, a 0.5 which is 27 teachers, nothing more. In the period of Mr. Rajoy, Counselor, 373 teachers came down, 7%. Cleared who has the greatest number of losses here, which is not Mr. Zapatero, logically--as you know--but Mr. Rajoy, we can follow, I think, this debate seeking solutions, which is what we want, knowing your opinion and searching for solutions. They're very important figures that -- as you know also -- they affect very old templates, because the average teacher in the Greek university system is over 50 years old, at our university -- as you know -- even bigger. So it's a very serious problem. As you know perfectly well, I don't have to tell you, over the next four years it's estimated that 300 professors and teachers at the University of Santiago will leave the university, 300 professors, Counsellor, and I know that you -- I'm sure -- are worried about this situation, because it's extremely serious. And we want to know what you're going to do with this. What we don't think is normal is that you and your Government, the People's Party, support the only measure that seems to take the Rajoy Government - which wants to take the Rajoy Government - to solve this and change the degrees from four to three years, because if you need less professor in that way and therefore the deficiencies will be smaller. That's what you know that leads to a decline in the quality of teaching, and also leads to an elite university, because the masters, who would spend two years, are much more expensive, and, by the way, generally more important or with greater weight in the private sector. The 100 percent replenishment rate we now have, Counsellor, you know you don't fix this situation, because the losses are irrecoverable, if we don't do something, because the 100 percent refers only to retirements this year, not to previous ones; therefore, the losses are there and something will have to be done. And above all, you know perfectly well, Counsellor, that there is an absolute precariousness of the university staff: as you cannot have officials, they are changing themselves for temporary contracts, precarious contracts, contracts that - you know it - they are paying sometimes 250 euros for working on two subjects all year round, 250 euros net, to a fully qualified staff. So an absolute precaution of the situation: precarious contracts, which are what you refer to each time we talk about this, and tells me there are 200 or 280, or I don't know how many, contracts that have been made. Of course!, contracts were made because it was the only way to cover the teaching of all the missing teachers, but we are changing, Counsellor, quality, fixed and quality employment - as was the previous one - for a precarious, temporary job and - above all - extremely badly paid, that is what is happening at the university. There's no way, you know, to do a university career right now, there's no way, because there's neither there's the channels, and you're not putting down the channels or to put the existing teachers -- that is to say, to allow you an internal promotion -- or, of course, to make a university career, teacher and researcher, and that's why many young people -- as you know -- are marching from here to look for new opportunities in other countries. The numbers of teachers in Santiago, as you know, put the situation in your place, Counselor. If the total number of teachers and researchers in Santiago decreased from 2,300 to 2,043 in total, from 2010 to 2015, the number of temporary and interim teachers increased from 47 teachers to 122. Counsellor, this is job precariousness, in a professional who -- you know -- are highly qualified and not improvised, because a university professor doesn't improvise from today to tomorrow; we take ten... sometimes more, to have a teacher who is able to win an opposition or to have the quality of teaching that is required of him, as it should be. So if this situation doesn't stop, if you don't put any way to fix this situation, all we're going to have is a deep down of teaching quality and research quality, Counsellor. Because you know that when there is no teaching teachers to give it to, then, you multiply, and if teachers get more and more teaching, they have less and less time to do research, because also for university professors the days have 24 hours, they don't have any more. And there's, besides, Mr. Counsellor--I know you're going to tell me not, but the texts, including the Budget Law, are there--there was a brutal interference of counseling in college templates, because if you need an authorization from the Farm Council to hire a substitute professor or teacher, replacing a disease nothing else. You know there was an intrusion that made template management even worse. So, please, Counselor, don't tell me they have autonomy and they can hire whoever they want. First, because they have no money to do it and they only have to multiply those contracts that don't reach the minimum staff salary, with very skilled staff. He's not enough to do it and they're also, in some way, involved by the Business Council. Counsellor, what we want to know is that, in this situation, in view of this shortage of resources, in view of the panorama presented to us at public universities, Counsellor, because it turns out that, while the public have lowered teachers, the privates have multiplied 100 percent of their teachers, and that depends on the policies being carried out by the People's Party - the People's Party of Rajoy in the Government of Madrid and the People's Party of Feijóo here - ; therefore, we want to know, Counsellor, how this situation is valued and what measures will be taken to curb such a complex situation as the one facing the University System of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u412	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u413	Good afternoon, Madam President and ladies. Mrs. Burgo, you have kept your word. I remember that in the last full-time he threatened to do an interview with the university professor by providing more data and, well, if he did. I think much of what I'm going to say has already been answered in the full past in the question to the counselor, but the truth is -- understand me well -- I think that after listening to her I was a little concerned because you, like me, who come from the university world, seem to forget some things. And perhaps today in your exhibition you forgot some things: you forgot that universities are a public administration, you also forgot that universities have recognized their autonomy by law, you forgot that planning and personnel management skills are a direct responsibility of the university and you also forgot that the repositioning rate put a socialist government, in 2010. But, well, I'm going to answer your questions, your questions here in the inquiry, obviously, so as not to say I don't respect, at least, your task and your control work. But I would like to put on the table a series of data that I think are known -- and I'm sure you know them -- about the evolution of what is the teaching dynamics of universities, what is presented in documents and what is the official data of universities. And I'm sure you know the data presented in the memory of the 20162020 funding plan, where a diagnosis of the teacher situation is made. Here the data are very concrete and very precise: in 2005, in full economic favour, in the course of 20052006, the number of teachers, the number of IDPs was in Galicia of 5,085; in the course of 20122013 the number of IDPs was 5,021, both for grade and postgraduate. Meanwhile, the number of students, also correlated in 2005-2006, was 78,682, also in grade and after grade; in 20122013, we're talking about 66,564 students. That is, we have a stability in official data, which is practically stable in the PDI, and we have only a 1.2% down, from 5,085 to 5,021, and if there's a significant drop of 15.4%, obviously for very different reasons. You tell me, "Well, this data is outdated" or "this data is grade and grade". Let's go to the more specific, more current data; let's go to the data only of degree, of first and second cycle of university degrees in Galicia. The data available today, that is, those of the 20142015 course, tell us that the comparative dynamics - only degrees - between the 20052006 course is 74,786 students compared to 55,322; these are the student data in degrees. Meanwhile, at PDI we're talking about 5,085 versus 4,937. That is, a practically minimal fall of teachers, of the PDI, and a drop -- mostly due to demographic issues -- far more important in the student field. And given this data, you'll understand that in Galicia the university system has one of the best, I wouldn't say the best, but rather of the best academic ratios within the system. We're talking about 11.2 students per university professor; that's one of Spain's best ratios, no doubt. And I'm aware that this data is a statistical average, of course it's not related, but in the rest of the autonomous communities it's not related, and it's not the same careers as others and it's not the same cycle as others, but we have a number of IDPs in the university system we understand that of the best. And with this data, I'm not going to be the one to question that the three universities in Galicia - Vigo, Santiago and La Coruña - have a staff of research professors, with the PDI, necessary to meet the needs of students studying in Galicia. And, of course, we don't doubt - I don't doubt at any time - the qualification and professional training of any university professors, and I'm sure you don't either. But, of course, when we talk about the replenishment rate, I'm sorry that I'm a little worried, because you know perfectly well that who pushed the replacement rate in the Spanish State, and by extension in Galicia, was Mr. Zapatero's Government. I will not here defend Mr. Zapatero, who already defends him by Mr. Pablo Iglesias; I will not defend him by much less, but what is not less true is that he was a Government of the People's Party--when the economic situation allowed him--which put in place a 50% replenishment rate and, at present, also a Government of the People's Party put in place a 100% replenishment rate. And, of course, if there is any problem in any public service -- educational or non-educational -- linked to the replenishment rate, you know perfectly well that responsibility and the causes of these weaknesses are due to a decision by the Socialist Party, which the People's Party has corrected. With which, you come here to question the replacement rate by trying to transfer that weakness to the governments of the People's Party simply is hardly credible. But, well, I'll also tell you that in addition to the replacement rate, which effectively affects only staff officials - holders and professors -, not other academic figures that universities have to fill the necessary vacancies, I'll also tell you that the Galician Board authorized recruitment on the basis of the State General Budgets Act in 2013, in 2014 and 2015 of, respectively, 271, 312 and 287 PDI squares. That is, there was, on the basis of university requirements, a correspondence to these authorizations, mainly because the autonomous community of Greece has a good economic management and a good economic solvency. Obviously, 2016 is no longer necessary, because we're at the 100 percent replenishment rate. With which, Mrs. Burgo, I am also surprised that you persevere - using something usual also in your companion Docasar - to some extent, by contradicting yourself too, because you try to transfer responsibility, on the one hand, to the Council of Galicia, to the Socialist Government's replenishment rate and, on the other hand, by trying to transfer to the Council of Galicia a responsibility that is basically from the university fields itself; because, in this case, personal planning competences are directly responsible for each university. There's a question I've also been worried about--and I'll try not to make a shrapnel--because, of course, you say that the templates are very old at university, because they're fifty years old. Well, in this Parliament, I don't know if it's fifty, but I think a 50-year-old professional is at the highest professional level. To say it's a problem that university professionals, that university professors, are about 50 years old... well, man, we're close to them, at least I, but questioning the professional value of a teacher for his age is frankly, at least surprising. Because, of course, you can tell me that maybe a six-year-old professor or professor is worse than a 40-year-old professor--I won't tell you that yes or no, it will depend on each--but use it as an argument to attack the Government, for frankly, Mrs. Burgo, I don't share it; in that case, at no time do I share it. [[Applause]] And, look, you also talk to us about public and private university. Well, there's no private university in Galicia, there's only public university here. [[Murmurs.]] In other autonomous communities, some of them have always been resident, always, for socialist governments, if there are private universities, there are no universities in Galicia. The Greek universities had a budgetary scenario, at the worst possible moment, at the worst moment of the crisis, much more solvent, much more calm and much more coherent than most autonomic university systems, where they managed to postpone payments even from payrolls, where all calls were removed and where there were levels of outright gross indebtedness. And Galicia, fortunately, our universities, partly by responsible management of the principals themselves but also partly by economic planning linked to both the 20112015 funding plan and the current 201620 funding plan - by the way, which increases economic funds, public funding, by more than 18% for universities and which has been agreed and supported by the universities themselves - because certainly there is no longer any responsibility to propose it. And there's one question that I can't share either: you talk about lowering the quality of university education because there are precarious contracts, because there are temporary contracts or because there are training contracts. Look, I would never doubt, never doubt, the ability and professionalism of university professors, even if they were substitutes or interim. You and I, surely, in our departments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u414	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u415	...we'll have teachers who are replacing our teaching and you know we shouldn't criticize it; we can't criticize the contracts that universities do, or at least I wouldn't, in the exercise of their autonomy. And, of course, I too was an associate professor, and you know--you were my Dean at the Faculty of Lugo Humanities--and I had a contract at that time when I was between 180 and 200 euros. I mean, that kind of contract has always been there and they're always kept to cover certain teaching squares. In any case, I believe, Mrs Burgo, that the Board is fulfilling its responsibility for coordinating and financing the universities themselves. I think both institutions, university systems...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u416	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u417	... and together, we're developing a loyal work, a cooperative work, a country key, with mutual respect, very coordinated and, in any case, the data we put from the evolution of the teacher on the table, I think that they turn their interpellation into an excessively alarmist interpellation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u418	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Burgo López has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u419	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, if you don't assume the reality you're facing, you can't transform it. You know it perfectly well. And if you don't assume it and you don't want to take any of the problems--that you know you know-- that they have universities and twist data and manipulate data and manipulate what we say to others, you're doing a weak favor--you know--to your party, too, because you're only having a partisan vision but, above all, you're doing a great damage to who you have to administer, which is, in this case, public universities. To me, really, someone who's a specialist and probably knows a lot more than I do from statistics, I don't know what to say to him that he can't manipulate like that. Of course, you've been comparing yourself since 2005... but it's just that the university professor between 2005 and 2010 has evolved uphill, of course, so of course he thinks they're similar, but it turns out that since 2005 and 2010 they've had a positive evolution. The problem is that 2015 has the same level as we had in 2005, that is, we lost ten years' budget of universities, and we lost 10 years' consolidation of the templates, Counsellor. What you want to put on as good is very bad, is the sign of the serious problem the universities are having. Self-government, Counsellor, which you have allowed to have, nothing more, because it is in your own budget laws, that they could not do anything without permission, without permission, from the Business Council. And what's more serious is you're keeping a circular saying that if there's no teacher in an area that gives subjects the areas of affairs. The areas of affairs, the never seen in higher education, Mr. Counsellor, which we are criticizing in high schools, what are we going to say then in universities? And you're keeping it, you're keeping that order. Student ratio, Counselor, I don't know what you know anymore. There are areas that have enough teachers and there are areas that are clearly deficient, and that's why students from some colleges are protesting closed and in trouble and you know that these averages are absolutely useless. And as for age, no, I don't think... I'm a better teacher now, I'm sure, with the years I've been, that when I started, of course, the problem is that I've had -- since I started -- the possibility of going promoting and growing in my university career. Of course, the problem is that now there are no young teachers and that when we retire, no one is prepared to fill our job, because it turns out that a university professor -- and you know it perfectly -- starts with the need for a doctoral thesis and continues with the need to go abroad, continues with the need for research and has to have some merit that is needed, at least, between 10 and 12 years. So, who's gonna replace us? When I, within a series of years, retire, who will replace me? I tell you who: nobody, because in my department nobody has the chance to do that university career and replace me and you, please don't manipulate these things. Of course it's very good that we're fifty. On the other hand, Counselor, I didn't say the precarious are bad teachers, which is bad is the job, Counselor. So, you want someone to stay in college, do research, work, go to congress, do everything you have to do with a $500 salary. And you forgot, I won more, when I was at the Faculty of Humanities, I won more, more of that. But you, what now when I get back to your job, you're going to win the same thing, Counselor? Not because you're a title teacher, and why are you a title teacher like me? because we had the chance to do that university career but someone who has no future--because he only has a replacement contract--that as soon as you or I get back to our faculty, that person leaves and leaves without any possibility or come back, or to do anything at university. What is it, college career? Counselor, please, make a serious analysis, because you can do it. You can't deal with this subject in such a completely manipulative way. Besides, about Zapatero, and that I don't know how you dare tell me that anymore, please. I already told you--because I knew it--27 teachers lost at the time of Zapatero, 373 lost at the time of Rajoy, in three years, nothing more than that. Zapatero did not have the 10-percent replacement rate for doctors, for R & D, for much of the teaching, for necessary sectors, Mr. Counsellor, and the 100 per cent rate does not cover the losses we had before. Look, I'm sure you want to leave...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u420	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u421	...a university - finished - better than it took. For that, Counselor, you have to see reality as it is and not manipulate it and not deny it, because then nothing can be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u422	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u423	Well, Mrs. Burgo, if anything is this government and this political party is realistic, it has always been. Other parties, when they talk about realism, should see their own history, but no longer a very distant story, the history of when they denied the crisis for such realism. That's what they should do because you try to come here and tell us that we manipulate the data, and tell us that the data I brought here about PDI are data that tries to manipulate, because honestly, I'm going to give you more specific data about the dynamics of statistical evolution of the PDI: in 2005, in the course 20052006, 5,085 PDI; year 20122013 - an intermediate year -, 5,021; year 20142015, 4,937; we don't deny you that there's less PDI than a few years ago, is that we haven't denied it. Now, the number and fall of PDI is practically non-existent or minimal compared to the fall of the student, that's something that just had to put the numbers on one side and put the numbers on the other. Now, if you talk to me about staff, it's different, and why is it different? because the famous replenishment rate which apparently was not set by Mr. Zapatero, who in addition to leaving the replenishment rate to his party, also left the box quite empty and quite indebted. By the way, that great statesman supported by great national leaders, as we just saw, really changes there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But of course, there were no places to be called because the socialist government's replacement rate was 10% and we had to wait for the People's Party to first put the country on its way and then put the replacement rate to 50 percent and now, fortunately, 50 percent. With which each one has his own guilt - 100 percent, sorry, 100 percent - and his own sambenites, but you do not try to pass that sambenite - which is yours, for the good and the bad, is yours - this part because it doesn't make much sense, Mrs. Burgo. Look, I'm absolutely aware--when you talk about autonomy--who took autonomy away from universities, who took it out? Well, I think so, Mrs. Burgo, because the replenishment rate, who put it? being a university autonomy who put the replacement rate? It was clearly the Government Zapatero in this matter. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, you tell me there's no replacement. I mean, the civil servants, like you or me, or like the professors, because they're not going to have a generational replacement. It is true that in the last four or five years due and the reason for Mr. Zapatero's replenishment rate, for there were no calls, but if young teachers entered the university, as when I came in, that I didn't earn what you said, no, no, I know that I won 38,000 pesetas. I insist, in 2013, 271 new teachers, I don't know if 24, 28 or 27 but new real teachers, young, 271 - that some would enter into small contracts as I entered, and I'm sure that you also entered--but in 2014, 312 and in 2015, 277. These teachers that we have right now in the university system will be those who have, in some way, to replace the new squares that are coming up, that's basically what we're considering. And, of course, you also tell us that there is no future for college practically, or for young teachers. I'm sorry to say so with so much singleness, because at the end of the day, really, the university of Galicia has been in the last few years, just like all the universities in the set of Spain and just like all the administrations -- because a university is an administration -- it had complex moments. Some universities, in fact, are with the internal economic management adjustment plan, others have surpluses, i.e., there is no direct correlation between the internal management of each university. But what is true is that from 2011 to 2015, the German universities - on the contrary - had a very stable horizon, they had the capacity to plan, they had the capacity to have security in public revenues, which are around 70% or 80% - depending on each university, the total budget - and, with the new funding plan, everything that is the structural cost of universities is absolutely guaranteed in a funding plan that increases the public funding of universities to 18% and which guarantees the structural cost, i.e. the cost of teachers at the cost given to the public service, and which also proposes a very significant departure around 33% for a 40 % horizon in 2020, by results to favour and stimulate all that is scientific production. With which, I believe that the Greek universities... obviously, if you tell me if you need more funding or if you deserve it, I say yes, of course you do. Now, very few universities, very few autonomic university systems, can have or have such a stable economic and budgetary framework and you can ask in autonomous communities governed by socialist forces as it is. Without going further, you ask the Andalusian universities what their budget situation is, and how these universities are. Ever since this government has had a loyal, constructive, cooperative, consensus-seeking attitude and a search for major agreements with universities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u424	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u425	...I suppose you don't like that, but it's reality, and it's demonstrated, it's been demonstrated in the big strategic axes, in the university law, in the bill of titles, in the funding plans itself, with which, Your Honor, I understand that you try to introduce kinships, introduce forecasts between autonomic administration and universities, but I really believe that with this type of initiatives - above all the data are not realistic - because they won't conquer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u426	Girls, Counselor. We move on to the eighth point, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members of the G.P. by Alternative Galicia de Left, on the measures to be implemented by the Government of Greece to prevent the increase in serious work accidents
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u427	To put the question, you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u428	Good afternoon, Counselor. Twenty years ago he died in a labor accident, which, without being my brother, was my brother, Victor. And that day I understood the need for political involvement, union involvement, so that never again a worker had left his life in a job simply because someone wanted to save his money. Twenty years later we have to regret that in the first quarter of 2016 serious and fatal accidents in Galicia increased by 47,5 %. In the first three months of this year, 11 workers or workers died in Galicia at their jobs. One dead every week, four every day in the state. That's when less hours are worked not only in Galicia, but in the state as a whole. With regard to 2009 25 percent less working hours; there is less work time, but more people die at work. We understand that it has to do with precariousness, inequality, work injustice, pressure on workers to accept any working conditions, but above all with relaxation in the control of safety and health measures at work. Safety and health costs money and at the moment, with the excuse of the crisis, what is being done is to stop using these safety and health measures at work. How do you think today's work accidents continue to grow in a very important way?, in 2015 2% compared to 2014, just how much more difficult there is to work. In this setting, in this social reality, we asked you, under your responsibility, what measures you are taking the Government of Galician Union to avoid this indentation; this saint absolutely unacceptable in a society that should be fair and that should control what we call, often, employer terrorism. How are you going to control, for example, that indentation in such an important sector as fishing, which accumulates half of the fatal accidents in the country as a whole? But above all, how is it possible that in the face of this so important increase there is no concrete action that you have taken to improve this situation? We think it's not enough just to apply the Risk Prevention Act at work. We must also implement measures to ensure that this law is implemented in a concrete way and those who do not comply with it not only receive administrative sanctions, because in many cases - and so is being explained to many entrepreneurs - it is cheaper to pay the accident than to resolve with measures those issues that may cause the accident. So we also want criminal measures. Just as the workers are being pursued, they should be pursued by those entrepreneurs who are able to avoid safety and health measures at their jobs simply to save money. So our question is concrete, what are you doing to avoid this indentation and what measures will the People's Party implement from the Government to avoid this absolute scourge in the jobs of this country? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u429	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u430	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Fajardo, I believe that a topic of these characteristics, sincerely, requires a treatment with a minimum of seriousness, a minimally documented treatment, and, of course, come to tell this House that measures are not being applied and that it is not acting against sinlessness and security at work, I think it is simply ignoring reality from the point of view of government action and absolutely not knowing reality from a point of view not only of action of the Government, Mr. Fajardo, but also of trade union organizations, of business organisations, and of course also an absolute lack of knowledge about our entrepreneurs. Look, everyone, absolutely everyone, the Government, trade union organizations, business organizations, entrepreneurs, all except Podemos, we share the goal of achieving maximum safety at work. And everyone, Mr. Fajardo, except Podemos, we also believe in a culture, a culture that is based on prevention from consensus and collaboration. In fact, Mr. Fajardo--because I see that you have not been documented on this question--I should remind you that there is a plan of action, that there is a plan of action of the Galego Institute of Public Safety and Health which was approved by the government commission, where there are present, Mr. Fajardo, the social agents. It was approved for this year 2016, and I must remind you, too, that this consensus framework has existed since 2010, when the I Strategic Plan for the Prevention of Labour Risks of this Government was implemented, and continues, Mr. Fajardo - because I see you do not have the information -, with the Welsh Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 20162020, which also counts with the agreement of social agents. So, I think, Mr. Fajardo, we need to talk about specific data and the actions we are developing. But, logically, of course, we are concerned about the small rebuttal, but point out, that if we are occurring in the number of accidents, we are investigating the causes of this rebuttal, we will present a report and a specific action plan to act, we will reinforce the inspectoral activity in the field of safety and health at work, Mr Fajardo, which in 2015 increased by 6 %, but in 2016 that inspectoral activity increased by 24 %, and we will continue to develop programmes to reduce sensitivity in strategic sectors, also in the primary sector, with a prevention programme for the self-employed, which has not appointed the self-employed, which demonstrates their lack of knowledge about the reality of this area of action, and we will also continue with that task of awareness and training and technical advice. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] So, Mr Fajardo, we are acting, we are acting with the consensus of trade unions and business organisations, and, of course, this Government believes deeply in prevention policy and believes deeply in action to prevent any kind of accident in the development of business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u431	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Fajardo has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u432	The truth is, I'm serious about the Councillor's indignity in this audience saying they're worried about the work situation, all but Podemos. I'm not from Podemos, but I'm disturbed by these kinds of interventions. Look, I don't have to say anything here, but I'm an average professional in the prevention of work risks, I've spent a part of my professional life on that subject and I've got to say one thing: the data I'm getting are reports from the board that indicate 45% increase. It is therefore unworthy for you to come here to say what the council itself says. Since you've assumed the responsibilities of employment not only demonstrates disability, but you're disinterested in everything that has to do with improving working conditions. And, above all, you have to see it with the data. Look at the budgets of the Galician Union: 2016, budget for improvement of the health and safety system at work, EUR 3,470.000; in 2015, EUR 7,821,000. That means they have halved budgets for prevention, to improve training in prevention at jobs. What does that mean? That at least something has to do with increasing work accidents with death in this country with a 50% reduction in budgets in your department in respect of the training of workers on safety and health issues. And not only that, but also in Issga they reduced their budget in a very important way about 2015. So when it comes to serious talk I would like you to have a serious adviser and that in employment matters you don't talk about this fragility of what we're talking about, of 11 dead in the first quarter, where investigations are delayed, where - in many cases - employers without scruples are allowed to extort families so that they don't denounce in exchange to pay for the accident of a relative. This is happening every day in this country, and you, with that indignity, come here to talk as if nothing had happened. Sure, what's the problem? Surely the problem is that no government member has to suffer and go to work knowing that he can die at his job, as is the case in this country in many sectors, from fishing to construction to industry, without you taking it seriously. So, of course, I'm very upset at their indignity, but it bothers me, in addition, that they haven't done anything to tell me they're going to make plans that have been developing for four years and that the figures show that they're not working. 45% more increase in the first quarter, but last year 2% more increase in the 25% less hours. They work less than ever and die more than ever in jobs. What are you going to do, I ask you what you're going to do to solve this issue, which is a matter of gravity that is not, let's say, corresponding to your attitude today in this audience. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u433	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u434	...that your advice, that your person, be the most responsible in employment matters, because every time he comes he shows not only irresponsibility, but total lack of knowledge in the field of work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u435	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u436	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u437	Thank you. The counselor has the word for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u438	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Fajardo, look, trying to relate the rebound of labor sinequality to the temporality and policies of this government, I'm going to summarize it very simply: it's petty. It's absolutely petty. It's absolutely morally reprehensible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u439	Mrs. Martínez. Mrs. Martínez, be quiet! Silence! [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] You have a call to order, it's the second one; you know what might happen to the third one. Be warned. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u440	Thank you very much. But if you want, logically, we talk about data, of course we can talk about data. Look, in 2006, when the crisis still didn't shock and there were others who were ruling, there were over nine fatalities for every 100,000 people working in Galicia; unfortunately, that was the data. In 2015 that index was reduced by 20%. Unfortunately, it is still at 7.41 %, but it has been reduced by 20 %. And in the case of serious accidents, Mr Fajardo, this reduction in serious accidents amounts to 55 % and goes from 113 serious accidents to 52. But you should reflect in this House that you have that power to transfer some data, but not all of them, that 98% of the work accidents that happen in Galicia are mild. That's the reality, Mr. Fajardo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you want the comparison with Spain, and if you want the evolution - as you see in this chart - of serious accidents is a continually descending trend, from 2006 to 2015, Mr. Fajardo. And we're still working on a series of performances that I've transferred to you, but you don't want to listen, because when you're told about data and specific programs, you don't want to talk about them. Mr Fajardo, of course, any policy that is linked to occupational safety and health is always insufficient, of course. That's why we will continue to work with companies, workers and social workers to promote an effective policy that improves working conditions; we will continue to advise from a technical point of view; we will continue to inform, continue to train and work in the culture of prevention. And, of course, Mr. Fajardo, we will continue to monitor, we will continue to monitor and develop inspection plans--which I see you do not know--for we have already carried out more than 50,000 inspections; I repeat the data, 50,000 inspections, 5,142 sanctioning dossiers, and we will therefore follow the inspection plan. And with regard to Issga, I should give the data, because I see that you don't know or know anything about safety and health policy, but you don't know anything about reading an budget from this Autonomous Community. You should know that, indeed, Issga fully maintains its structure, fully maintains its ordinary activity, and you should know that the decrease you reflect are the resources that are due to the completion of a project to prevent labour risks in the primary sector funded by the State; but that Issga maintains, absolutely, all its ordinary activity. And you should know, too, that we keep, that you don't know them--but that you're the maximum ignorance--that you don't know, too, the help of the intermediate organisms...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u441	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u442	...to promote the prevention of work risks, because we collaborate with the intermediate bodies, with actions of a million and a half euros that you still don't know, so I move my recommendation to you, which is that at least you know the Issga Activity Memory, who knows the budget of the Autonomous Community and that at least Mr. Fajardo, is a little documented. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u443	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation by the Board of Galicia of the possibility of providing tablets the educational centres that impart the stage of child education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u444	To put the question you have the word Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u445	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, good afternoon, as you see, here I am enduring. [[Murmurs.]] Counsellor, you know perfectly well that new technologies should serve to transform teaching and personalize education, because not all students have the same possibilities or go at the same pace in their learning, and so, if they're well used, they're called to allow us to change the homogeneous education we have today. No one doubt that the introduction of new technologies into the Greek schools would have as more credible advantages the personalized education, motivation and empowerment of teamwork. We understand that despite the gradual implementation of the new technologies that have been produced in the Greek educational centers... how? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Aren't you listening? Okay. We understand that, despite the gradual implementation of the new technologies that have been produced in the Greek educational centres, they only reach a part of the compulsory education student. And the cuts in education in recent years have unfortunately made that the speed of this introduction has become very slow. And what do you say, Counsellor, about the ways in which you introduce them in many schools and schools, who saw how your classes were equipped with retroprojectors at the beginning of the year and who, six months later, continue with problems of operation, as they told us a few days ago, in particular, from the province of Pontevedra? I ask you today to resolve this matter by giving the appropriate indications to whom you consider it appropriate to be responsible for this circumstance. I understand also, Mr. Counsellor, that there is a long way to go. And we must not forget that these learning mechanisms have to reach all ages, including the stage of childhood education. For the introduction of computer elements, such as tablets, in child education should serve to strengthen knowledge and enhance the creative capacity of our student. Experiences like those that are living in some autonomous communities, and even in small places in Galicia, like Tui, tell us how important it is that child education is also part of the new challenges of society. And Galicia can't and must not stay behind in these new teaching experiences nor leave them in the hands of private generosity. Therefore, Counsellor, you understand the Socialist Group that the Greek Government must make a clear bet so that new childhood schools - including the unitary schools and the grouped rural centres, the so-called CRA - have in their tablet classes so that our children can have equal access to new technologies, live where they live or come from the social environment of what they do. We also understand, Mr Counsellor, that the success of such a project is necessarily due to the proper training of teachers, because without proper teacher training there will be no profitable and well-utilized investment. For all this, I ask you, Counsellor, if you look at the Galician Junta, the possibility of providing the Greek educational centres that share the childhood education stage with the so-called tablets. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u446	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. To answer you have the floor Mr. Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u447	Good afternoon, Mr. Docasar. The truth is, I thank you for your question, I even thank you for your presentation, because you really listen to it today because it's listening to another Socialist Party. I remember, as a Member, when the Abalar Programme was launched, fierce criticisms of the Socialist Party regarding the Abalar Programme project. I always said that time puts each one in his place, and that's why I thank him that today--some years after the start of this project--you recognize and speak positively of what the insertion of new technologies into the education system is. And it's more, that I even ask you to extend to the children, an area where you will understand that you have to be very careful, because we're talking about children from 3 to 6 years old, with which we have to be very careful. And the commitment of this administration and this government to new technologies in teaching, I think, is beyond doubt. After overcoming the great criticisms made by the Socialist Party and other political formations, I believe that today there is a very positive balance of what is the inclusion of new technologies in the educational process. Look, a very fast balance: Abalar, 531 centers and 52,000 students. Recently posted digital classes: one hundred percent of public classes from 5th grade to bachelor's degree, one hundred percent of public classes. Training in the use of new technologies: we're talking about 23,000 professors who have been trained in new technologies, because insertion into new technologies is not only to put in -- forgive me the expression -- you'd have to form teachers -- and there are 23,000 trained -- and even families have to be trained to participate in this process. Because it's a lot more than replacing the book with the digital screen, it's a lot more, and I think we've marked a very positive line here. EDIXGAL: 107 centres; the Abalar repository: 2,900 items. I mean, we're talking about training, we're talking about a gradual process of introducing new technologies into teaching. But, I insist, you have to be careful. Why? There are pilot experiences -- in Galicia as well as in rural areas too -- very positive with the use of tablets, new technologies, in the educational process of 3 to 6 years, there are many experiences. And there are also firing trends. Some teachers say that the use of tablets is very positive, stimulates creativity, stimulates curiosity. Others, however, don't say it so clearly--even at the level of pediatrics--say you have to be very careful because it's an age at which the child's rationalization system is being stabilized, you're measuring everything that is learning capacity, everything that has to do with the attention of children from 3 to 6 years. With which you must be very cautious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u448	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u449	And I think I should say, like this, in a generic way, that a project like this is going on when we have good experiences in Galicia because it's simply risky. Anyway, I'm back as I started. I appreciate your attitude and thank you for the Socialist Party's change of mind in this case with regard to the past, and it's correcting to some extent the view that they had so pejoratively about the inclusion of ICTs in the educational process. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u450	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr Docasar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u451	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't think you heard me in the first part of my speech, when I told you that what I'm asking for is a pilot experience, I'm not asking you to generalize the subject. I am aware that there are teachers who clearly criticize this issue as well. What there is no doubt about is that it is a subject that can be done. But to do this, we have to do - in the view of the Socialist Parliamentary Group - several things. The first question, Counsellor--and this is also very important--is to make the political decision to bet on these new technologies and to do it properly--I have already said it before--to a group of teachers to take forward this project. You were talking about cash and, indeed, it was not about introducing cash, but about making these issues that lead to the centres and costing an investment, costing money, which can be profitable. That's important. A second very important question is that it is about providing the necessary tablets with a group of centres, in a pilot experience, perfectly distributed through our territory, scattered through the four provinces of Greece and not leaving -- I insist -- in this project taken out no province. There was a moment ago I also told you that there is a successful experience, specifically in a CRA in the city of Tui. We have an experience that works perfectly, but it is being done thanks to the dedication of the Paideia Foundation of five tablets that cost around 600 euros, Counsellor. So you see it's not a matter that costs a lot of money. And thirdly, in the view of the Socialist Group, and in the light of the results obtained with this pilot experience, it would be a matter of gradually spreading this experience to the rest of Galicia's training centres. I hope, Counselor, that this positive contribution which the Socialist Group makes to you today will not, as always, fall into a broken bag. Mr. Counsellor, as I was telling you a moment ago, there is already some little experience that is working perfectly, and I put as an example Tui's CRA, that with the enthusiasm and involvement of your teacher and a little help from a private entity is being able to carry forward a project of these features successfully. You take advantage of yourself, Counselor, these successful little experiences such as Tui's, and get hands on the work to lead the future. That yes, in the meantime--and I insist--of course I speak well of the Abalar Project. I was one of the pilot centers in Galicia that implemented the Abalar Project; therefore, to me what will you tell me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u452	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u453	At that time it was an experimental center of Abalar. It works perfectly. But still this afternoon I got a complaint from the province of Pontevedra, where I'm told that a lot of teams of retroprojectors have been installed and they're not working, they don't have sound. So you should solve that issue because There are complaints from a lot of centers in the province of Pontevedra. I understand that these teams are paid and, therefore, they will have to be held accountable to companies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u454	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u455	...which started that project. For my part, that's all. And I hope, and I insist, Mr Counsellor, that you take this positive initiative of the Socialist Group into account and do something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u456	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u457	Well, Mr. Docasar, I'm going to tell you that this House was witness at its moment of a very strong political attack on the Abalar Project, very strong. And I also tell you that I appreciate you being rectified and realizing that it was a positive project for teaching in English. And here's an important question. Look, many projects that were promoted by the Educational Administration, by the Board, in these years have always had a direct frontal rejection by opposition parties - they had almost everything -. And there's one positive thing I think that fills us with satisfaction like Together and you too--he speaks well of you--and that with the passing of time they give us reason. And that's good, and that, like San Pedro, they fall off the horse and realize that it's good to criticize but that, when things are implemented -- by the way, with an educational community that resembles them well -- the program contracts, the Plan Project, plurilingualism, Abalar -- they've always been well received by the educational community, despite political rejection on their part. And now that they're working, you say they work well. And I would like to thank you, in this sense, for realizing that the measures were well-guided even though they were constantly criticized. And I'll also tell you that in Galicia there are many experiences, several experiences besides Tui, where children between the ages of 3 and 6 are using new technologies. In many units there are digital screens, in many, not in one or two, in many. And they're launching teaching projects based on this use. But I insist on what I said before: you have to be absolutely cautious, very cautious, because you know how I am that there is no clear tendency on the part of the pedagogues and even pediatricians about the effects on the conception, rationalization and comprehension of the student. So you have to be very careful, and you have to be very cautious, because we're playing with a very delicate matter, children from 3 to 6 years old. And you'll understand that this board isn't scratching 10 or 100 or 1,000 tablets, when you can put a balance like what we've just seen -- that is, 531 centres Abalar, 6,000 digital classes -- is a constant project for the implementation of new technologies in the education system. And I always say that new technologies are one more tool, we can't fall into purely technological obsession, we have to encourage technology and technology learning, absolutely. Because, no longer the future, the present is there, and it's a question of social equity. Because we're getting, for example, on digital screens to 100 percent of the Greek educational centers, breaking the digital divide. Or in connectivity we're pushing -- as you well know -- a project, along with the Ministry, to provide the means of connectivity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u458	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u459	...a hundred percent of public centers. With which I believe there is a very clear commitment to this government to new technologies. It's a strategic piar in the educational model. And, I insist, I appreciate your correction, and, as I always like to say, time gives and takes away reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u460	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions carried out by the Government of Greece to comply with the provisions of Law 5/2015, of 26 June, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u461	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u462	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I don't know if you know that in December 2014 we discussed in this House taking into account the Law on Rights and Guarantees of the Dignity of Terminal Sick Persons. Because then you were not Health Counsellor, the Health Counselor was Mrs. Mosquera--that one I liked to call "not resigned nor terminated."--. And perhaps you don't know that after that law it spent half a year in the People's Parliamentary Group drawer until it was finally debated, and I have to say that it was adopted unanimously in June 2015. But what you have to know, however, is that that law which is already approved and in force envisages an additional provision in which it is collected that, within the time limit of Three months since the adoption and entry into force of the law, the Government should carry out the necessary actions to give a proper dissemination and promotion to that law between professionals and professionals, and in addition to promoting in the population, in the citizenry, the pre-instruction document. And what you should also know about that law is that he came to bring to citizenship a new right: the right of people to die with dignity. For that law and new right required the Government to have all people, all the citizenship of Galicia, enjoy that right, live the person where they live. Whether that terminal situation occurs in a village in the Courel or in the center of Santiago should have the same right, as it happens in your home or it happens in a hospital bed; and also regardless of the age at which this situation occurs, it is a child or an elder. And in order to be able to ensure, Mr. Almuña, that right equally throughout the territory and all the people, the Council that you manage should have done something, should have increased human resources and material resources to be able - I insist - to give this new provision to all citizenship, starting with getting adequate training in palliative care for professionals and professionals of primary care. Well, Mr. Almuña, today the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a year later, we want to ask you what you have done or, better said, what the Government has done in relation to the law and the new right now to the Greek citizenship. I look forward to your answer, and for the moment, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u463	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u464	Good afternoon, Vice President. Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Carmen Gallego, Mrs. Maria Quintas and ladies, good afternoon to all. The Sergas Strategy 2014 has already explicitly collected, within its objectives, the need to enhance care for patients with advanced and complex disease. It established a care model focused on their needs, in particular palliative care, those addressed to patients and families with disabilities with limited life expectancy in advanced stages that present many physical, social, psychological and spiritual problems and needs. The identification of the situation of palliative needs is framed in the care process of chronic illness; thus palliative medicine, according to the World Health Organization, considers that the process of dying is a natural fact - it affirms - and promotes life; it does not intend to unnecessarily withdraw it nor to shorten it specifically, but rather to promote its quality. Respect for the dignity of the person and acceptance of the finite of the human condition are the two fundamental attitudes that guide his practice. Palliative care is thus within an ethical framework of remarkable quality. I think it was something that came from the practice of many years, and I think that you and I -- that we were assistants -- even without the law passed in 2015, we already practiced it. The adoption of the law, of course, of Law 5/2015, of rights and guarantees of the dignity of terminally ill people, offers the opportunity to develop an integrated and interdisciplinary palliative care, in line with that expressed in the Welsh Plan of Palliative Care. That is why there is a broad consensus which, as you well say, has been adopted unanimously. I even think it was presented by the Socialist Group and, after changes... even told the president how that discussion was to improve the law and achieve it, unanimity in something we all must agree on, which is in applying it when the patient initiates a symptomatic, active, progressive, incurable, threatening disease for his life, and never wait for his application to which specific basic treatments are exhausted. Therefore, in the attention of the people who are in this process, all professionals of health and socio-health resources in Galicia must be committed. This holistic view of palliative care, together with the inclusion in Law 5/2015, of both health and socio-sanitary services, requires providing the composition of the current Galician Committee on Palliative Care, adapting it to this new law, in line with the objectives of the law, seeking to be represented and involved within it the health and socio-sanitary agents who relate not only to terminal patients and their families but also to the people who are in an advanced and complex illness. Therefore, as a first step on the basis of these reasons, the redefinition of the vowel profile and the role of the Galician Palliative Care Commission, regulated by Decree 18/2010, is established, therefore, with a new decree now in the form of allegations - I suppose you will know it -. In addition, and in order to comply with the precept set out in the single additional provision of the law as regards the dissemination within a period of three months, the September 2015 palliative care update bulletin, published on the Sergas website, added the previous instructions to the document. And it is recalled that the Law on the Rights and Guarantees of Dignity to terminally ill people states that both professionals and health centres must ensure that the values and instructions contained in the document, the previous instructions or given by patients, must be respected. Both the law and all documentation relating to previous instructions are available on the website of the Galician Health Service. In addition, I have to say that there has been an important increase due to all the promotion measures, including the creation of a promotional video that has tried to significantly increase the previous instructions so that people can logically establish them long before they have a terminal disease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u465	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Acuña has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u466	Look, Counselor, I didn't ask you for the interest of the law--we have it very clearly--I would ask you why you had done your advice to comply with the law, to unlock the law. And you didn't answer me, and you didn't answer me because they haven't done anything. In fact, it appears in the Suggestion website the previous instruction document. I don't think it's very appropriate for an old person from a village in Courel to access that pre-instruction document, to set an example. Look, do you know how and when the government promoted Feijóo this law, the law that people in the street know as the law of worthy death? Well, when they broke the law, ethics and human rights, they denied him a worthy death, they denied him that right, a child with a terminal illness. Remember, Counselor, Andrea's case? Sad and intolerable promotion to which this government has made this law! By the way, that now, and to avoid something like that, you're not breaking the law, no, what you're doing is changing the decree that regulates the composition of the Ethics Committee; something for which I have no words, it's embarrassing. [[Applause]] Now, in order not to have any problems with the Ethics Committee, you decide that you are the Counsellor to whom that committee conforms. Look, Counselor, you can't deny this new right to citizenship, can't you not comply with the law, because you know what's going on? That, after that, you end up in the trial; and Mr. President, Mr. Feijóo, on the radios ahead questioning the professionals and the judges. Something amazing! Look, they facilitate the processing of previous instructions, inform patients of the existence of the law, form professionals and professionals properly in palliative care. Finally, Counselor, comply with the law; that people in Galicia in a terminal situation may die decently and be left to tell us lies once and for all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u467	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Replica from the Government. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u468	Yes, Mrs. Carmen, the truth is, she always doesn't care what we say, because all the measures we're going to tell you don't matter. We were commenting on what we were doing on the subject of promotion. Obviously, training is also important within the programming we have in ACIS, in the Knowledge Agency. Also acts such as conducting a qualitative research study that is part of the evaluation and improvement of the Palliative Care Plan of the Galego Health Service. It is a general objective of this study to obtain, precisely, first-hand information about what attitudes and perceptions of different interest groups may have about palliative care, a cultural change in society that is also important. And I want to tell you that the assistance part is also important; it seems to you that it's the only one, but for us, it's much more important the previous phase. The nurse is covered, and they're improving the facilities of the services that are in each of the major hospitals by carrying out this kind of care. But it's very important to give knowledge to society, training to professionals, but also to citizenship. And what seems to us to be worse than anything is to use children or dead to treat eight months or ten months later, of raising a parliamentary question. We can do this without using that kind of comment to a family shattered by illness or the death of a daughter. But to me what draws my attention is that, when we talk about this, it seems that if you want to dissuade the deputy counselor--the counselor, as you called me a moment ago--for what's behind it is a service, like the Pediatric Service of the Clinic of Santiago--that I think it's a great pediatric service-- where that girl was treated for a long time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why I think we can discuss strategies, what we're doing, about palliative care, but using patients -- especially children -- is not the most important thing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For us it is essential to adapt the interventions of each person's clinical situation to reduce this suffering. The development of palliative care has suggested an improvement in the care of the patient when he has no chance of healing. In addition, the limitation of that therapeutic effort when circumstances thus indicate it is also part of good clinical practice. It's not an optional decision but a moral and regulatory obligation for professionals. It consists of not introducing or withdrawing therapeutic measures that do not benefit you clearly when you perceive a disproportion between ends and therapeutic means. The withdrawal or initiation of these measures allows the disease to continue its evolutionary course, which, inexorably, leads to the death of the person. Today the right of everyone to receive adequate attention and not to suffer unnecessarily is unquestionable. It's evidence that death is the only certainty that we have human beings from the moment we're born. Given the evolution of our society, there has been an increasing participation of the health system in the process of dying, although not always in the most appropriate way. To seek a good death in which pain and suffering are produced by proper palliative care, in which one never abandons or neglects the person and in which care is considered so important to those who will not suffer, as it will be, is an obligation for all professionals. Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u469	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Greek Government not to sign a collective agreement with workers of the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u470	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u471	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. From the Parliamentary Group of the BNG we want to greet the workers and workers of the Galician Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare, both those who accompany us in the rostrum and those who are outside, at the gates of Parliament. Counselor, look, today we bring up a very specific question and for which we expect a concrete answer. The situation is as follows: the first workers and workers of the Consortium started in 2007 - as you well know - but they were actually promised the agreement immediately in 2014. In 2014, the department you run told them textually that once they were integrated into the Galaga Wellness Agency, they would then sign that V agreement, thus matching them with the staff of the Board. Now that you have already decided that the centers will not pass to the Wellness Agency - that you will have us at some time also explain that decision, and that the Consortium is kept; question that we understand as something positive because it is a way of functioning that until now serves as a collaboration between the Board and the Councils - the question is very simple: why have you not signed the V agreement? And the next question is, when are you going to sign it? Are you going to have these workers and workers to take out the street the children and the children, the people from the daytime centers, the dependent people? Or are you going to keep the promises made by your department? Promises firmly, because they were even part of a second additional provision of Decree 40/2014, in which these centres became part of the Galaga Agency of Wellness. Therefore, a promise made verbally and written also through a decree. So, these people who don't have trienniums, who don't have waiting lists that they can really check out, that they don't have add-ons, but that if they were applied to a 5% reduction, first, and then 4%, when applied to the rest of the board staff, they have the right to have rights, Counsellor. They've been waiting for that Convention to be signed for exactly eight years. But it's been two years since they were told, "That's it, it's going to be signed now, because you're going to become part of the staff of the Gaga de Wellness Agency." So, Counsellor, in front of the workers themselves and the workers, in front of people who see how they are reduced by their educational partners, how in day-to-day centres they have worse working conditions and how they have worse chances of paying attention and services, they want to know if you, before you finish this legislation, will sit with them and sign that V Convention, as if you have promised them verbally and through a decree. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u472	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Mr. Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u473	Madam President. Mrs. Adam, ladies and gentlemen, in response to your question about the situation of the staff of the Galician Consortium, I would like to stress first of all that, as you will know, on May 11, the Social Policy Council formalized an important framework agreement with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provincials. This text, the fruit of months' negotiation and consensus with the representatives of the mayors of the municipalities of Galicia - I have to say that mayors of the People's Party, mayors of the Socialist Party, mayors of the BNG and mayors of the Mareas - guarantee the present viability and, above all, future social services provided at the local level and managed through this instrumental entity. I also have to say that this agreement puts an end to ten years of discussions between the autonomous administration and the municipalities. The real deal that's a key milestone for what you're asking me. It's not like I'm asking one thing and I'm answering another. Because this agreement ensures the economic solvency of the network that is foreseen in the deployment itself of care centres to adults and children between 0 and 3 years of age. This understanding between the Galician Council and the Galician Councils establishes a system of first-time participation and co-financing with clear criteria, which will prevent constant legal discrepancies from the birth of this instrumental entity to these moments, discussing the different agreements that have been signed. We pretended the importance of this agreement because this and its normative development also put an end to a situation of instability and uncertainty that the municipalities and the self-government lived. But above all, this agreement also guarantees certainty for the municipalities and for the autonomous administration because it will allow the income we need to maintain the public services we care for children and care for the elderly. This year's budget, as a result of Galician commitment to children's schools and day centres, is increased, for the first time in recent years, by 14.26 % to reach EUR 67 million - EUR 34 million for the staff chapter Could not connect with command "%s": %s. So once you lay the foundation for the economic viability of the Consortium and its services, we also deal with the situation of the staff, which goes through, as you know, different situations: temporary workers, undefined workers, workers hosted by lists and others; a total of 1,543. You will understand that this diversity of the employment status of the Consortium staff complicates the solution for all, because our commitment is a solution for all. I can assure you that the well-being of our workers is a concern, but also an occupation of this counselor. That is why we have already taken measures that have not been adopted in these ten years, such as extending the same regime as that of the Galician Union on permits and holidays: vacations, permits, transfers, competition, breastfeeding, birth of children, the possibility of reducing the number of days...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u474	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u475	I authorized a few days ago the opening of another process that I want to announce now - of course, negotiated with the unions - to authorize the waiting lists. And I commit myself today in the House to a third step: that as soon as the agreement with the municipalities and the legal amendment it has brought together and that it is already in process has full effect, with the income needed for its fulfilment, we will open up the negotiation to provide an agreement to the workers who refer to their question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u476	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Adam has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u477	Yes, thank you very much. Look, we're very fancied, very fancied, the protagonist of a novel by George Orwell called 1984. Do you know the hardest thing about your work in the Ministry of Truth? It wasn't writing the story, it was destroying the previous story. Because, of course, with every new news you had to destroy all the previous ones. So the Government Feijóo and the Welfare Council literally spent seven years convincing us that until there was the Welfare Agency these gentlemen and ladies who are up here and out they couldn't have a V convention. But there, from that rostrum! I don't know if the session logbooks are being unloaded, or if they're going to stay, or if there's officials here also shredding, as was the case in 1984, those session papers. But, indeed, here the Counsellor has committed herself to the existence of this V Convention, which has nothing, anything to do with the budget allocation, with which she sets it up for the Councils, with which she sets it up for the Enterprise. The important thing is that they are guaranteed the rights of those workers and those workers, regardless of which administration makes that budget allocation. So don't try to fool us, the ladies and gentlemen who are up here, those who are out there and those who are in their work centers. Like the staff at the board? There are also internals, there are hired people, there are substitutes. And you will know perfectly well that all people are regulated by an agreement, the V Convention, specifically that of the staff. By the way, you know they have a lot of problems, besides, for day centers and other centers. So the question is not whether you're going to negotiate an agreement, but whether you're going to fulfill the word the Government Feijóo gave, which said exactly in 2014 that, once they'd become part of the Welfare Agency, they would have signed the V Convention. It's not if they're going to comply with legality and negotiate an agreement, like all the workers and workers. You'll understand that, after ten years, you come to announce us as a third big announcement that you'll start negotiating an agreement, shame would have to give you, shame would have to tell you here that you're not going to sign that V Convention. These people have suffered the same cuts as the civil servants and workers of the Galician Union and, on the other hand, they have no right or trienniums, they have no right to add and they pay a lower salary, between 25% and 30%, than the people who work for the Galician Union. One example: Children's schools earn 30% less than average, if we're not going to match the trienniums and the supplements, than those that work in the junior schools of Junta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u478	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u479	And you, who have undertaken to have the same rights--your department, Mr. Feijóo-- once you have passed into the Agency, now try to convince us here that the problem is the Town Hall. No, no matter what the budget game is, the workers and the workers have rights, and you should sign that agreement. And the question is clear: when will the V Convention be signed?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u480	Thank you, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u481	Or should we understand that you're not signing anymore? Is that your answer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u482	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u483	The truth is, I always try to come to the House and answer my questions. And, of course, what you ask me doesn't match what you're telling me. You ask me in writing, "Why don't the German Government sign the agreement with and with the workers and workers of the Galician Consortium of Equality and Welfare Services?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh That was your question. I answered your question exactly. We're going to negotiate and approve an agreement for those workers, because we're worried and busy in that solution. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because, of course, I won't tell you about the past. If it was so easy that equation of what you're talking about, you know perfectly what I could tell you, I'm not going to tell you. Because here we're looking for solutions where others haven't found them. And, of course, a solution that we're going to put on the table is funding. And the Town Councils are not the problem, the Town Councils are the solution. Because, after ten years, we have achieved a consensual co-financing model, which implies incomes that will allow us to all maintain childhood schools and maintain day-to-day centers. And I'm telling you that agreement has a vocation for stability, because we're looking for an agreement for everyone. This agreement is signed by mayors of the People's Party, by mayors of the Socialist Party, by mayors of the BNG and by mayors of the Mareas. We therefore guarantee the necessary revenue for the application. Because, look, promising something that cannot be fulfilled, of course, is not--I think--the most appropriate thing, playing with people's interests. I say, look, in recent months, in addition to this agreement, we have equated the staff of the Consortium with the staff of the Galician Union for the first time in ten years, for the first time in ten years. At this moment, we've opened the listings to avoid very serious problems that exist. in childhood schools and day centers; second solution. And the third -- they have my commitment to this House and the workers -- is that, as soon as it has full legal effects, we will begin negotiations to reach an agreement. Because, after ten years, the workers deserve an agreement with economic effects for their wages. So I'm telling you the question yes. We will negotiate and approve this agreement, because the Consortium is now guaranteed revenue. The exact moment? The full legal effects of the agreement that we have reached with the councils, because it is what guarantees that this is not a promise, but that it will be an immediate reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u484	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Joint, on the forecasts of the Galician Union in relation to the expansion of Seaga workers' contracts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u485	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u486	Thank you, President. As you know, Seaga has been a public company since 2006 which has been created precisely for the provision of services in forest matters, especially those related to the prevention and extinction of fires. And he works together with brigades hired directly by the Council, with no functional differences. They are also under the same command and act together. Despite these differences, however, Seaga's workers and workers remain with differences in labour rights which condemn Seaga's staff to an indecent work precariousness, which is inappropriate for a democratic government, inappropriate for a European government, inappropriate for a 21st century government. The staff hired through Seaga do not have their own agreement, as you know, nor does the V Collective Convention apply to the employees of the Galician Union, so you are condemning Seaga's staff living in poverty, to which simply applies the Staff Regulations of Workers and the Minimum Wage. Despite this greatest precariousness of Seaga, the Union has had the courage to apply the same cuts that it applied to public workers and workers. In addition, the time spent in Seaga is not recognized for access to the Union recruitment lists, and the duration of the contracts is limited to three months a year, having to take care of the prevention and extinction of the high IRDI months, which obliges them to make trips that arrive at 12 hours. But what is worse, though not even if it reaches three months, because like last year, and gives the impression that this year too--they can clarify it--the workers will not yet be hired on day 1--just as it happened last year--. They'll start working later, with a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on June 14, this year, which says they're forced to hire this staff from day one at least. In addition, you are failing to comply with Lofaxga, which is the year 2010 and which gave a two-year period to apply this collective agreement to Seaga workers. So you've been stealing money from Seaga's workers for four years. Six years after that law, you're still missing something as basic as that. But not only that, and I'm not going to get involved because AGE has a question related to it. You are now hiring mountain cleaning with other companies. And the reason for it is that it comes out cheaper, that is, they put the precariousness in front of Seaga workers' rights and workers, already, who have been hiring and doing that job for years, to ruin, and then come here saying that precariousness has nothing to do with deaths in occupational accidents, which must be that workers go to their businesses to commit suicide or that it is the fault of the workers to accept precarious jobs. Of course, I ask you, please, a little bit of respect when you answer about Seaga's workers and if you're willing to make that actual contract on day 1 this year, and if you're willing to extend your contract...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u487	Please finish, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u488	...so they can do prevention in the months of low index. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u490	Thank you, President. Mrs. Martínez, of course, I will always answer with seriousness, with seriousness and with a great deal of respect, which is what the fire defenders deserve, because, undoubtedly, it's hard work, it's hard work, where the word death sounds loud, not; it sounds very strong, as in any other job, but it's true that with a danger greater than any other worker. Hence my respect for Seaga and my respect for all the workers who work in the fire brigades. Tell them, ladies and gentlemen, that, as I announced earlier, and in the way I told them, I will answer each of the questions posed to me by the different groups, that for this they have agreed, and it is good that they agree to defend Seaga's staff, but do it in a common sense and do it by not deceiving that staff. He told them that tomorrow morning he's going to the board of directors. I'm telling you, moreover, that the sentence doesn't say it has to be day 1, but it says it's three months; that is, if it starts on July 13, it's going to be three consecutive months. So you don't fool yourself by saying that they're being stolen for 13 days. Not at all, if they start on July 13th, they count three months from July 13th. First of all, apart from that, I'd like to nuance your appreciation of Seaga derived from its self-sustained feature of the Autonomic Administration. Indeed, and as you point out, this autonomous commercial society is born with a purpose: to be an instrumental entity in the autonomic public sector, to be, therefore, a public administration-owned environment. As such, the activity to be carried out by Seaga is not free, but, precisely, it can only fulfil those tasks, indeed, that it performs the Union of Galicia within its social object. The social object of society also covers the realization of other types of activities, works, works and services of agricultural, livestock, forestry, aquaculture, fisheries, seafood, rural development, conservation and protection of the environment, as well as those necessary for the best use and management of natural resources and for the improvement of public services and resources. This was a change, and this change makes them more and more orders and, therefore, that they can work more and more personally in this audience that is Seaga. In this way, and when Seaga receives orders to prevent and extinguish fires within the high period of forest fires, he is obliged to call the so-called brigades for the three-month period, three months this year to begin on July 13. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u491	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u492	Counsellor, you recognize it's a very dangerous and hard job, but you condemn these workers to twelve hours a day. You'll tell me how security is with 12 hours a day of dangerous work. And I say more to him, he ceases to say here and to declare his respect for the workers and demonstrate him with facts; respect, really, his work. But look, you just lied like a champion, or you haven't read the sentence, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] On June 13th this year, he goes out in the DOG, which declares himself a high-risk period of forest fires between July 1st and September 30th. And the judgement of the High Court says: "We declare the right of staff with indefinite contract discontinuing of the company in question, which performs management tasks in the field of forest fire prevention and defence in the categories of pawns, pawn specialists, foreman, foreman, brigade chief, engineer, forest technician, administrative and administrative assistant, to which their periods of activity coincide, at least, with the periods during which the order of execution of administrative orders in relation to the prevention and extinction of fires in periods of high fire danger, and we condemn the company to be so declared." He just lied, what the sentence says is that the contract has to last - yes, is it true - of the three months? No, what he says is that he has to have the duration that the board itself sets up as months of high index. And that's where you're not complying with the sentence, it doesn't matter. It doesn't say day one, day one, you put it in the DOG. The company says you have to start the day that you put in the DOG. So don't lie to Seaga workers, don't lie to the Greeks and to the Greeks; at least they are decency to accept that they are champions of precarious work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u493	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Replica from the Government, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u494	Thank you very much, President. Three months since the order was made, and the order is to be made at the board of assembly tomorrow. Three months from July 13th. What the sentence says is three months. First they say it's not three months, then they say it's three months, but it can't be day 13, but it can be day 1. [[Murmurs.]] Well, you know it's three months, you read the sentence well, and of course, again, respect, and don't walk with the workers from one side to the other. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Apart from this, tell them that in the first months of the current exercise, 2016, Seaga had over 100 employees in management orders for the execution of forest treatments and the fight against pests in public management mountains. Eighty percent of these workers develop fire device functions, since they occupy the first places on temporary recruitment lists by believing more experience, which is the preferred criterion. Within this framework, and in accordance with your planning, transfer that the various councils will continue to issue orders to Seaga. That by increasing needs, the number of people in Seaga also increases. This is the reality and not the other, which you want to glimpse or even shake, because you're interested now, at this particular moment, at the beginning of the period of fires, but from which they didn't worry at the beginning of the year. [[Murmurs.]] I must have a look at... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'll have to say that if you've been in precaution in earlier times, even since Seaga was created. And indeed, at the time when they started they had a contract of work and service; contract of work and service that they do not have right now, and they do not have it right now because they were able to fight, and they did their struggle, and in addition, the High Court recognized them, and he recognized, the figure of defiance. [[Murmurs.]] And it was as a result of this judgment that during the year 2012 the staff picture was changed, creating 528 personnel squares, of course as the sentence said: staff did discontinuate. And despite all that, and, of course, recognizing that we have to adapt to Lofaxga, and seeing what has happened in recent times, telling them that it is the intention of this would advise to support the continuity of negotiations between trade union organizations and commercial society to advance in the search for better working conditions. Of course, within the regulatory framework applicable both in the labour field and in the public employment field and in the budgetary field. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u495	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the reasons of the Galician Union for the use of private sector workers instead of Seaga staff for mountain cleaning
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u496	To formulate the question,--silence, please--has the word Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u497	Counselor, mind so much that she doesn't give me time or answer all the lies she's told. That we're worried about the last minute. We're taking all the legislation into action on Seaga. Ask the workers. What I'd like to see is that they could talk to the workers today so they could put it in their place, after they'd done a disincentive festival. Look, you just recognized the struggle of the workers who got at the Galician High Court of Justice who had their rights recognized. You forced them to spend their efforts and spend their money fighting for the rights that you had to have granted them without having to go through justice, and even above now comes to recognize them their struggle. This is a recon, it's a recon, it's a recon, it's a recon, it's a recon, it's a recon. [[Murmurs.]] If you are--even above--incompetent, incompetent, you have just lost one more sentence. We've lost count of how many judgments: wind, bus routes, and now this, which will cost the Greeks money, because they're going to have to give them 35 days, that you don't even read the judgments, nor know them. If you don't know them, because it's not for three months, you have to give them 35 days that correspond to them, the difference between the order period and when the jobs started, and the period that ended the work and ended the order. It's just, please, a little bit of rigor and knowledge. I read to you in judgment: "We declare the right of staff with indefinite contract discontinuous of the company concerned, which carries out management and field tasks in the prevention and defence of forest fires, in the categories of pawns, peon specialists, capataz, chief of brigade, technical forest engineer, administrative and administrative assistant, that their periods of activity coincide, at least, with the periods in which the order of implementation of the administrative commissions signed by the company with the competent council of the Galician Union in relation to the prevention and extinction of fires in periods of high-risk fires, and we condemn the company to be so declared, without grounds for imposing the costs". Where's the three months, Counselor, what did you just say, what do you say it's three months? Where is he? Tell me where he is. With this is the rigour it treats. You've been harassing and harassing Seaga's workers for the last seven years to force them to desist from fighting for their rights. They have a situation of total precarious work, they have to fight in justice for the rights that you already had to get them. You had to be in compliance with the agreement, with the V Convention or with the Lofaxga, and you failed after years of that promise. It's not worth anything his word, it's not worth anything. And you just hired 9 million euros, plus IVE, to private companies some jobs that Seaga workers could do perfectly, because they're not extraordinary jobs, they're predictable every year. But no, because that would mean giving these workers a future. And you want them not to have it, you want them to give up and go away, Counselor, you want them to desist and go away. That's why they hire 9 million euros with private companies. And tell me what numbers you put out to say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u498	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u499	...that this is cheaper than Seaga's workers had done. Because, do you know the wages of Seaga's workers, Counselor? How is it possible that the private company, having to pay 21% of VAT...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u500	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u501	...do the cheaper jobs than some workers who earn quite low wages, Counselor. Tell me, if you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u502	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u503	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u504	The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u505	Thank you, Madam President. When you agree, the answer can be different. First it was said that it wasn't three months ago, after we had to start on day 1, I repeat again that it begins on day 13. The question that you asked me is, what is the reason why the Galician Union uses private sector jobs instead of Seaga workers for mountain cleaning? And I'll, of course, answer you. The recruitment of public forest works, by open procedure, negotiated procedure or smaller procurement, is the usual system used by the Rural Environment Council for the bidding of jobs in the mountains. No matter what I told you earlier, during the first few months of the year, 100 Seaga workers were doing forestry work in the Greek mountains. It's not a novelty, and it's not a novelty since it was created, and when it was created it wasn't ruling the People's Party. Of course, this does not mean that Seaga, as an instrument of administration, does not carry out a major task in the prevention of forest fires and in the rural development of Galicia. But what you can't say is that an open contract is a privatization. In fact, to tell you that although the PDR in Galicia 20142020 does not expressly exclude the possibility that forest investments, co-financed with EAFRD funds - which are the vast majority of those carried out through the Rural Environment Council, and the vast majority are intended for prevention - are carried out by the administration's instrumental agencies, it is the Community authorities who pretended that the cost moderation in investments has the highest priority, so these jobs can only be entrusted to Seaga in very specific cases. And in those specific cases, the Conseilería do Medio Rural made the order to Seaga. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the General Sub-Directorate on Forest Fire Prevention and Defence and the General Sub-Directorate on Forest Resources published on the Galician Joint Contract Platform the bidding of nearly 100 forest works, but not exclusively; these were in the field of mountains and forest fire prevention and other catastrophes. These contracts have not been tendered - as you claim in the course of the question they pose - almost with invitation to companies that wish to do so, but quite the contrary, the board did not invite any company and actually received thousands of economic offers to carry out these works. And this is what the different technicians in the European Commission say, that although the PDR does not have a strong negative, it is said that we have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u506	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u507	...assuming it with an end. And when that end can be argued, Seaga carries the management order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u508	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u509	Counselor, sometimes it's good to lose. It's not that we didn't agree, that I read his sentence. The sentence says what it says, and you have to admit that you lied before, as a very daily lie. Look, these workers have been... yes, yes, he lied, because I read his sentence and he doesn't say anything for three months. [[Murmurs.]] Of course you lied, yes sir, and you must call things by name, you lied!; or you don't know the sentence well, of course! Look, these workers have been fighting for years because if you increase their three-month period of work--you'll understand the precariousness in which these people live working for three months, I say--and demand that they be made contracts, at least six months in order to be able to live. Maybe it's a profession where there's no work, maybe. But it's just that there's a chance that there's a job and you have the political will not to give the Seaga workers a job, rather force them to go. And you lie again when you say that the Community authorities forbid you to hire this kind of job with Seaga. It's a lie, it's a lie. And if you don't tell me where that is at the PDR, I know it pretty well. Look, the jobs you've hired: preventive forestry jobs in Trives Poor Town Hall, forestry jobs for prevention, preventive jobs in the U.S. Town Hall; preventive jobs is what these workers do. If you had the political will to give these workers work, these workers could be working for six or nine months, but you'd rather spend 9 million euros on hiring private companies. That's right! Stop playing with people's lives, say they want to close Seaga, say they don't have these workers, but don't be lying, be brave and tell them. But you just spent 9 million euros on these contracts and you didn't just tell me--again, because you can't, you haven't just justified me why it's cheaper for these companies than for the workers. Even on top, knowing how you do the adjudications, I won't remind you again, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u510	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u511	...that behind all this there is the business that you always want to do with the fire, as they did with the helicopters, for which they are investigated in Santiago's 3rd Instruction Court, for giving your finger 6 million and 12 million contracts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u512	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u513	...and then, are we going to have to believe it's cheaper? Well, show me that it's cheaper and how it can be cheaper when these workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u514	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u515	...cover the wages they pay, how can it be cheaper? And then you can shut my mouth, if you justify me with numbers that that's like that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u516	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u517	We don't believe it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u518	Thank you. Replica from the Government. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u519	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, I think the numbers aren't yours, they don't wear them very well. And I'm saying he doesn't wear them very well because he used to tell me about 9 million euros, then he told me about 9 million more VAT, then he told me about 11 million euros, and I, if it's okay, if it's okay, or I'll pass on to you the relationship of works, or I'll pass it on to the president to add,...to add. which is not 11 million euros, Mr. Anton, is that it is 3 million euros; it is that you are not good workers, that of Seaga yes, that of Seaga yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you don't, because they make a copy and take it and, therefore, they don't agree at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, if you like, let's transfer it to the president so that you can collect the works that, of course, are able to say continuously that the works are fingered. When deserts are left, they say, poor people, they don't know how to do it!; if the procedure is free and 1,000 companies present themselves, then they say, what barbarity! Why don't you take Seaga? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's just focus a little bit. And then I'll tell you, it's 3,338,611 euros, of which 1.5 million are from the General Sub-Directorate on Forest Fire Prevention and Defense and 1.7 million are from the General Sub-Directorate on Forest Resources. This is what the contest took and you should therefore review it again. In fact, the Galician Union makes a strong investment in the prevention of forest fires and in particular in 2015 invested more than 22 million euros in the implementation of preventive actions directed to the territory; 7.7 million euros through direct investment by the Galician Union; 7.9 million in collaboration with the 264 municipalities of Galicia, and 6.5 million through the granting of aid to the neighbouring mountains in common. And one part, larger or less, is through management orders that are made to Seaga and another is through public procurement through open procedures; the procedures that you went from 3 million euros to 9, and with IVE, of course, gave the 11, and that has nothing to do with what you were telling us. Annually the investment made by the Rural Environment Council for the execution of forest fire prevention works is entrusted to Seaga. It is about 1.6 million euros a year. This has to add that data that... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u520	Please leave the guest gallery, please. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the guest gallery.]] I beg the House services to accompany the guests to leave the rostrum, please. [[Speak words which are not perceived from the guest gallery.]] Leave the rostrum, please. Leave the rostrum, please. Leave the rostrum, please. I pray to the House services that accompany the people who leave the rostrum, please. [[Protests.]] We suspended the full two minutes while they left the rostrum. Thank you. We suspended the full for two minutes while they left the rostrum, please. The session is suspended. The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u521	We continue the session. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on concrete actions that may be carried out, in the framework of the proposed cooperation agreement through the Council of the Rural Environment to the Greek municipalities, for participation in the prevention and defence of forest fires during the years 2016, 2017 and 2018
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u522	To put the question, Mr. Balsairo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u523	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, as you know well, and so you have just demonstrated, forest fires are a threat that affects today in general not only the public and private forest heritage, lots of individuals, neighboring mountains in common, and lots of rods, but also the natural resources and the development of human activity in rural areas. It is true that in recent years there has been significant progress in this area with the reduction in the number of burned hectares and also with the reduction in the number of fires. We don't have to think that we weren't so long ago in 10,000, and now we're, about 4,000, with the deployment of a much more effective and much more efficient system of prevention and extinction, especially thanks to the good work of the professionals in this service; more than 7,000 people who during the high-risk period protect our mountains. Well, today we know that, as a useful tool for the fight against fires, the Galician Union, through the Conseilerie du Medio Rural, has just proposed a collaborative agreement to the various Greek municipalities. The German Government, the councillor you run, wants to collaborate, and wants to add efforts to local authorities for participation in forest fire prevention and defence. And do it, in addition, during the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. The fight against fires demands the commitment of everyone, of all people and of all institutions: to pursue the action of the incendiaries and to have a much more orderly and a lot cleaner, to provide for risk situations and to develop preventive tasks. That must be an effort and it must be a responsibility of everyone, of this side and of that side as well. A legal obligation and a social commitment. And that is why we ask you, in what subjects and concrete actions are likely to develop at the expense of these agreements? And, Counselor, those who are here today criticizing you... some of them saying that if Seaga's workers work for three months--and ask them to work for nine months--you have to tell them that when they rule they work for a month or two, the same workers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing more and thank you very much. It's you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u524	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u525	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Balsairo, from the 1990s until the 19th century, I have been signing agreements for collaboration with the motor bombers' councils and later also for street lanes of municipal ownership. It was in 2013 when the possibility of subscriptions was incorporated also for prevention and defense brigades. In 2015 they were unified. What came to be signed as three independent conventions became a single annual agreement. This year we incorporate as the main novelty three years in their performances; that is, the municipalities will no longer have to be pending since the Rural Council signed the agreement, but we give them the assurance that for three years, and in these three consecutive months, they can organize and reorganize prevention and the extinction of forest fires. These agreements have just been signed with more than 284 municipalities for the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. Therefore, local entities are allowed to carry out this planning, which is fundamental in order to achieve a better organization and, therefore, that they have alongside their professional places, because there are also professionals who do these jobs. The concrete actions likely to be carried out in the wake of these conventions are, on the one hand, participation in the defence of forest fires by means of actions with motor-bomb vehicles, which must also be remembered, in addition, the impetus given by the Conseilaria do Medio Rural in recent years to ensure the safety of workers and, therefore, to ensure that they have vehicles in good condition, and are several for the Conseilaria de Medio Rural and several for the various municipalities, so that these bombs, of municipal property, financed by own funds from the Autonomous Community, are available throughout the territory. These vehicles are integrated into the emergency device of the forest district where the local entity is located, giving priority to the proceedings of the extinction of forest fires in respect of other jobs. Even so, when there are extraordinary reasons for emergency, the autonomic organ can decide to mobilize these media outside its municipal term. Another action included in the conventions is the conduct of preventive treatments in a mechanized way financed from EAFRD funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u526	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Balsairo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u527	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. It suggests a satisfactory fact to know that the Greek Town Councils are a few more in the fight against fire. It is true that the current Government of Galicia and the People's Group always defend the municipal brigades, we defend them not only but our mayors ask them for them, just as the mayors of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego ask them. Home!, at least, this suggests that the Members of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Bloc who in the Galician Parliament criticize the municipal brigades should not be in touch with those mayors of their party asking them for them. And now, besides, I think it was a good decision what you want to do: 2016, 2017 and 2018; and I think it's also a right decision. Indeed, there is a fire device that at any time--and without the spirit of any triumphalism, because in this there must be no triumphalism--it worked, because the number of hectares burned down has been reduced and the number of fires has been reduced by ten years more than 60%, and that means it worked. And there's another one that we also know and that is known by all the Greeks. As you will understand, I don't want to name what happened in 2006 with the fires, I don't want to name it here, but who's talking to you was a Member in this Parliament, and we all know that, just as the Greeks knew, and we don't want to go back. That's why I'm telling you, Counselor, that you don't listen to the opposition in the fire policies, because paying attention to the opposition is going back to 2006, and we want to go back to 2016 and not go back to 2006. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] What the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block have done is known by some Members of this House, but above all Galicia knows about it and the Greeks and the Greeks know about it. We don't want to go back to 2006, we want to look forward; we're in 2016 and we want to talk about the future. And we have data, in addition, showing that the People's Party has made a good policy on fires. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u528	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Replica from the Government. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u529	Thank you very much. Mr. Balsairo, ladies and gentlemen, the effort of the Galician board, both administrative and budgetary, has allowed to attend all the councils that requested it - without words, without names -. And indeed--as you said and despite what you sometimes hear in this House--there are mayors of different political colors who, of course, disagree with some of those who often talk here. It has therefore been distributed as follows: in the case of Coruña, 62 brigades; the number of motorcycles is 18, the number of hectares, 5.137 and the annual amount, 2.6 million euros. In the case of Lugo, 3.3 million euros. In the case of Ourense, 4 million euros. And, in the case of Pontevedra, €929,000. The total amount for the three years is EUR 32,825,812.48.48. There are 1,500 people who will be hired by the municipalities to perform these works; works that, as I say, are, on the one hand, preventive, and, on the other hand, extinction. It is of great importance, of course, the prevention that is done from the Rural Council, the prevention that is done from the municipalities and the prevention that each as a holder of his mountains and lands has to do. As they are well known, within the actions directed to the territory and collected in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Plan, the following are included: selective control of forest fuel. These are non-productive actions but of great importance for their preventive and defence character. These are works that are particularly geared towards breaking the horizontal and vertical continuity of the forest fuel. And as examples we have the cutters, we have the scraps and we have the auxiliary strips of track. In addition, the maintenance of preventive defence infrastructures is carried out, which are fundamental to the mountain value, as well as its monitoring, detection and extinction of fires. With these actions it is to achieve optimal density of forest infrastructures, to improve reaction times through a network of clues that allow quick and safe access to all workers, and the extinction of fire, breaking the horizontal and vertical decontinuity of fuel and the capitalization of fire and thus facilitating their economic activation and social use. If we are able to put the fire into value, if we are able to keep these transformation companies in our rural areas, those design companies, and therefore continue to relaunch, and that this implies the 1,770 million euros of economy and the 70,000 jobs, it will be a success of all except for some, who seem to want there to be a fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u530	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the installation of the technical means necessary to enable the boatmen of the Ferrol River to obtain the transport guides in a telematic manner without the need to physically move to the dispatch machine of the document
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u531	To put the question you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u532	Good evening, everyone. The truth is to have to wait, after two applauses, to deal with this particular issue that affects the life and work of a collective of workers from the sea of the Ferrol River, but above all to deal with it after having to observe--and therefore my solidarity with Seaga workers--the contempt with which the counselor was treated is certainly regrettable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u533	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u534	I deeply regret that it is not only contempt on the part of the Counsellor but also on the part of the Members of the People's Party, who do not understand that a worker comes here to claim that he wants a decent job and that he has at least the months it takes to keep his family. See if they don't have those problems keeping their family through a job! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I continue with the question. We've come to ask about a specific question that has to do with the need to articulate a mechanism that allows the realizations of the Ferrol Congress that work in Meira, that facilitates them, not only their life, but their reconciliation, and that improves their security. As the advisor and those we are here well know, the February 8 Order determines the conditions that must be made to transfer the bivalves or the production of products from the sea between their landing and the point of sale when the same is the case, the so-called transport guides. You know that these fellows are forced to increase their displacement to get that transport guide on an average of 60 to 90 kilometers each day, which means an increase in the cost and an increase in their insecurity, because, in addition, they assume that they have to go at some important speeds in order to reach the sales line before this closes. And what these sailors have to do is, when they get out of their sealight, get to the port of Ferrol, where is the dispatcher of these transport guides, and then return with that transport guide to Cedeira to be able to sell their product. What we ask you is: why is not a mechanism enabled that allows these sailors to have on their device nothing more to land these transport guides? Because the reality is that these computer mechanisms already exist. There is a direct application and, when the machine doesn't work, it gives them permission through the confrerery itself for that transport guide. And there's also a mechanism that when, for example, there's no paper in the shipping machine, if you provide a code, you can transport that mechanism. Because in addition to the decree itself establishes very clearly in its Article 2.1 that this order will facilitate the computer applications necessary to facilitate its dispatch. So, there's the application, there's the legal facility to do it; what we don't understand is why life is complicated for these shellfishers and there's no mechanism, of course, that means saving costs, that they don't have to play life on the road and, above all, that they don't need a mechanism that doesn't make any sense, unless someone is benefiting from the use of that kind of exclusive machine. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u535	Thank you. The sea councillor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u536	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Fajardo. First of all, I wanted to have in this House a reminder message for Julio Videira, former chief boss of the Ferrol Congress, who sadly lost his life this week. From here I want to send our gratitude to the work that he has done for the people of that sea would confrere and send a warm greeting to his family and his friends. Going to your question, Mr. Fajardo, of course, this council aims to facilitate the lives of our seamen. We know that the marine-fishing sector is the seventh issue of the most regulated economy, and we must adapt the rules and practice so that they do not collide both concepts. On that line, the Ticpescs are designed. Ticpesc terminals are a tool for access to electronic administration that the Sea Council provides for the fisheries sector and marine crops. In these terminals - as you well know - shipowners with base port in Galicia, or acuculators, can issue transport documents, documents of origin, registration documents and documents of alternating arts. Among the objectives of this project is to equip all fishing ports of Ticpesc terminals, so that they provide service for the 24 hours of 365 days of the year and do not depend on the hours of attention of fishermen's confrries or lengths. Among the main functions of these terminals is the provision of a service necessary for the transfer of goods by land. And you'll understand, because then they started to install themselves by those points and ports of greater movement of fish and seafood. With this initiative we have been pioneers in Spain and Europe in order to improve traceability and follow-up, while complying with the European Union's rules on this matter, and their positivity has even been recognised in the European Parliament in a report on the common organisation of the fisheries markets during the reform of the common fisheries policy. At this point, we have 56 Ticpesc installed along the Galician coast, 25 of which are in Pontevedra, 26 in Coruña and 5 in Lugo, and they are accompanied by 4,711 active cards. With this deployment, it was allowed to issue close to 50,000 documents in 2015. The trend is to grow, as today two new terminals are being installed: one in the port of Carril and the other in Moaña, and the next may be Ferrol, because already in 2014 contacts have begun to solve this problem that you are facing today. This topic has been discussed two years ago with the group of interested fellows. He proposed that they search for a location near the download point where they could install the telematics media for the preparation of the documents under the control of a responsible person. They were also told that for this purpose it would be necessary to deal with the confrerery, because it is the body on which they depend. The low income that was supposed to lose sales didn't facilitate this step then, but I'm sure that right now and soon we'll have a solution to the problem. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u537	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Fajardo has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u538	Counselor, I'll try to be clear. I didn't want to talk about the whole Galician problem, but about a particular problem, about Meira's fellows, who, as you know, to get these guides have to travel almost 19 kilometers to the port of Ferrol, take the guide and run again another 19 kilometers backward, to go sell your product to Cedeira. What I wonder is that if you say it's possible, why don't you install that mechanism where they extract the product or where the land comes from? By the way, Mr. Hippolyto Fariñas committed himself to doing this as early as 2014, as he said, even there was location, that it was the Val Cooperative. Why didn't you do it? You should consider why it's not done. But it's not just that, that the decree itself determines that it can be done through a computer app. You don't have to have a paper, you can do it through your mobile phone. The application exists and works, because, when the operating terminal is not there, it will confirm if you give them the code so they can transfer that product. There is therefore a computer application. In view of this situation, which obliges these seafarers to travel back and forth an absolutely unnecessary path, my question is: why aren't these seafarers made this point easier? And besides, why don't all of the country's maricadores be made easier by the computer app so that from their mobile phones they have that code directly? which is exactly what makes their decree. We're what we don't understand, unless there's some sort of business tied up with these cabins that prevent this from being used. The app already exists, which is in Galician Fishing, and can be used on everyone's mobile phones to make it directly usable by the mariners. That is our question: why is it that if you force them, precisely, to go through those extra miles, which put their road safety at risk, but which also puts their economy at risk, surely, because you must know that this process means that every day they must lose between 10, 15 or 20 euros more in gas oil, when their economic situation is what it is -- because you know what the resource they bring from the sea and what their incomes are --? So I say, if you think you can do it in Carril, why don't you do it in this environment immediately?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u539	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Replica from the Government. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u540	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, see how I explain it to you. Look, we started designing this computer tool by 2005. At that moment we installed the first Ticpesc in the port of Bueu, and there were three other evidences left, which were installed during the two-party government. But until we reach the Union again, no impulse was given to this tool. Yes, yes, but I'll explain, I'll explain, because you, sometimes, I don't know what you want and you say we want to sacrifice the fishing industry. [[Murmurs.]] We have always been working to defend the fisheries sector and to make it possible for it to comply fully with the regulations, both Community and State, as well as autonomous. But look, you'll see, the tools are designed. In 2014, as you well said, a member of the People's Party already had a meeting with the confrere at that time, with the fellows and with the Galician Union. And we told them the tools were. The confrerery was that at that time it didn't accept that a checkpoint was put there because they understood that the perceivers would thus be very easy for them to take it to sell Cedeira, leaving the benefits all of that extraction in the port of Cedeira and not in the port of Ferrol. It's obvious, and you have to read... No, no, but don't be so ill-thought, you're always turning your head around from whoever's doing a business here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have to understand the legislation as a whole. The confrries are the ones that manage their areas and the authorization within the operating plans. The confrries are responsible for monitoring and controlling that area of authorization. And therefore they are responsible for controlling the products that are extracted from these areas. Therefore, it is quite logical that people working in those areas of authorization will help maintain their services to the confrere. That's why these computer applications are designed in such a way that they are the workers of the confrerery who see the compliance of the legality they have to bet on. What we're saying is that all the products that come out of the sea, by Community legislation, have to go through a checkpoint or a point of discharge, and that's what you're saying to them, that you have to enable where the control passes these realizations before you go to make your sale to the far side of Cedera. I'm telling you, we're in constant meetings with the Ferrol Congress. Unfortunately, it was necessary to delay the meeting twice because of problems encountered by your own confrere--one of them, precisely, the unfortunate loss of the former major patron of Ferrol's confrerery--but since May 10 there is also a close communication with the confrerere, telling you what they have when they have to access by computer codes through their computers. Each shipowner can do it, but discharge control is another. What you can do from the computer is the possibility of alternation of arts. Control of discharges by Community regulation must be done at a point where there is someone responsible for the confirmation that manages the plan, and that is why we are in this situation. But don't worry, there's no interest in anyone getting any benefit here. The computer tool was designed from the Galician Union to serve, as always, our fishermen, our mariners and our fellows. On that line we'll keep working, Mr Farjardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u541	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u542	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-29-DSPG159.u543	There's no more business on the agenda, the session is up.
