ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u1	Good morning. Go take your seats, please. We resumed the sitting with questions to the President, which corresponds to the sixth point. We are going to have a full debate on the three questions, which correspond to the spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and the spokesperson for the Left Galician Alternative. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the prosecution of the Prosecutor's Office on the restrictions imposed by the Government of Galicia for the treatment of new drugs against hepatitis C Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the complaint of the Prosecutor's Office regarding the delay in drug dispensation to patients with hepatitis C for budgetary reasons He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the left galga alternative, on the delay in dispensation of medicines to hepatitis C patients
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u2	First of all, you have the floor of the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u3	Mr. Feijóo, last week you were on your favorite stage, in a luxury hotel in Madrid, diverging about the deficit in front of your own and the rich people. Of course, there did not tell the consequences of the deficit: the destruction of the state of well-being, the social security crisis and the consolidated unemployment. Neither you nor your audience are interested in real people's problems. At the same time as that example of the supreme indifference, a judge opened up proceedings against two high health charges resulting from the death of six hepatitis C patients. Diligences began from an overwhelming report by the Public Prosecutor's Office; a detailed account of the chain of dispositors that prevented proper treatment and, as a result, if they did not provoke at least accentuated the lack of disease. Have you seen anyone die from a long and cruel disease? Have you witnessed how the dying people cling to hope, sometimes merely indicating, that their blind confidence doctors are proposing to them for the purpose of the prescribed treatment? Have you witnessed how in those cases, as physical deterioration progresses, anxiety increases? If you know the dramatism of these cases, you can imagine the suffering of Jesus, waiting five months for a treatment prescribed by his doctors, treatment that never arrived; or the suffering of Mary, who waited seven months; or that of Isolina; or of Felix; or that of José Ramón; or that of José Emilio. Cases where doctors asked for, repeated and endured day by day the begging look of their sick ones. You have no empathy for suffering, you are at Hotel Palace selling policies that destroy people. This group has brought this House to this House repeatedly in 2014 and 2015 this problem; you voted against it. Last week I asked him about the effects of the deficit, the benefits of leading the control of the deficit, there was no answer. Today we're talking about the negative consequences when accounting criteria prevail over people's needs. He did well by disposing of the Mosque Counselor. Now it's necessary to take the mistakes, apologize and change that policy. Are you going to do it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, "one death alone is a tragedy; one million deaths, one statistic." I don't know if you know this terrible phrase given to Stalin. For you seem to reason so when he said, to defend the management of the Board, that treatment was authorized to more than 1,130 patients and it seems that 10 or 12 patients were denied. Applications cannot be processed as though they were works licenses. I reminded him of this sentence a year ago, when we asked him about it. Look, Mr. Feijóo, did you bother to read the prosecution's complaint, did you take that trouble, Mr. Feijóo? One patient in Santiago hospital waited for more than four months for some drugs that his doctors considered essential. Your college admits you were administering drugs knowing they weren't the right ones, but there was no other remedy left. Four months later, when the drugs finally arrived, there was nothing left to do. In another case, Mr Feijóo, the Directorate-General of Pharmacy decides that it did not meet the requirements and was therefore not evaluated or submitted to the Subcommission, setting out new criteria which are not regulated or authorised on a previous basis. He didn't even send an answer to the hospital, Mr. Feijóo. Five months later, in the absence of an answer, the hospital runs a new request warning of urgency. He doesn't get an answer either, Mr Feijóo. The hospital insists. Finally, he received a affirmative answer. But when the hospital received the medication, the patient had already died. His name was David, Mr. Feijó. David, Jesús, Félix, Isolina, María José, José Emilio... because they were people, they had names; they were not numbers, Mr. President. You said the criterion was marked by doctors. As always, he tried and tried to shield himself in the professionals to try to justify his management, when there were doctors who had to skip all the desperate protocols to save the lives of his patients. Look, I quote textually: "We don't share that, by applying economic criteria, they're not included in Sovaldi treatments, these sick ones." Do you know who said this? The Medical College of Pontevedra, Mr Feijóo; the Medical College of Pontevedra in a letter sent to the Board warning of the systematic denial of medicines. So don't listen to the professionals to circumvent the responsibilities of their government. So are you going to assume responsibilities for the complaint that you charge high officials of your government a crime of prevarication and another of reckless murder as a result of death? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u6	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u7	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u8	Good morning. We were warned these days, and until yesterday, the spokesmen of the People's Party had to speak on this subject with rigour and seriousness. Actually, what they mean by this is that we don't call things by their name, that we don't speak clearly and that we don't know the truth about these criminal policies. To say that by budgetary criteria if you've delayed treatment for hepatitis C patients, you think it's unchallenged speech. When you say this, you are disqualifying the Prosecutor's Office, the College of Doctors of Pontevedra, disqualifying the opinion of Evaristo Varo, head of the Abdominal Transplant Unit of the Clinical Hospital and founding president of the Spanish Society of Live Transplantation, and of so many other medical professionals who denounced this situation, and they also record their testimony in the prosecution's complaint. And they're missing the sick, who had to fight for something they had to have from the very first moment to be able to focus on recovering from a very serious situation themselves. You are alone defending the indefensible, against the doctors, against the schools of doctors, against the prosecution, against the sick; you are alone defending the indefensible. And they resort to disqualification not to give their arm to twist and apologize, which is what they should do. They resort to dequalification because they have no arguments and they have no credibility. If they had arguments, they would have to explain the medical criteria that explain the delay in dispensation of treatment for up to months to the sick who needed it and who died on the way. What medical criteria justify that, Mr. Feijóo? It's very easy to answer. And, on the other hand, credibility. What credibility will you have in speaking about rigor and seriousness against doctors, those who face the sick, those who face the sick's relatives? What credibility will you have in the face of sick people who fought for their lives and who, as soon as they achieve their goal, have ceased in the mobilizations? Since April 2015 in this country, what had to happen from the beginning, that if a specialist doctor prescribes a treatment, he quickly reaches the sick, Mr. Feijóo. That's what you've been asking for for for over a year and a half ago, as simple as that. And you've always denied it, until the last moment. They heard deaf ears, they showed insensitivity and contempt. A few days before this national plan was approved, you stayed here as the champions of austerity, more papist than the Pope, and voted against what days later the Ministry of Health, the national plan, which assumes the demands of the sick, just something as simple as the treatment to the people when they need it. Mr. Feijóo, in order to make fair policies, it is essential to know how to put oneself in the skin of people who suffer, and you can't put yourself in their skin. He sees figures and he doesn't see people. That's why he said that for three cases you can't doubt that the cuts are behind them. That's why he speaks to that contempt. And the People's Party talks, as we heard yesterday as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u10	...the counsellor in an interview, and he says that probably those sick people who died would also die if they were given treatment earlier. Counselor, that we will never be able to prove it, unfortunately, nor their families. I don't know if you understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u12	... how hard it is for families to think about it, who could have been saved if they could be given the treatment in time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u13	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u14	And last night, we heard from the Voicer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u16	...of the People's Party compare the Hepatitis C Affection Platform with Clean Hands, festival of total indignity in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to answer the questions, I would like to start, to avoid misunderstandings, an agreement on a basic moral principle, and it is that a person's life has no price, and that linking money with a person's life is morally unacceptable. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to have a serious debate. And to make a serious debate the first thing we have to do is refer to the family members of all patients who have the disease caused by hepatitis C problems; for everyone, for those who have overcome the disease and for those who, despite treatment, have not overcome the disease. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question I have to say today as President of the Government is to support the professionals of the Galician Health Service, without a doubt. They're great professionals. And the third is to support the Galego Health Service, and to support it because we were one of the health services that most of the time, that more packaging, that more treatments and that more patients diagnosed and treated with hepatitis C, the hepatitis C virus, all over Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I insist that thinking about accusing politicians or doctors or those responsible for the deaths of persons claiming that such deaths have to be delayed or that treatment is not considered an unacceptable moral trap. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not going to fall into that moral trap, I'm going to make an account of the facts. Yesterday, the government advisor explained in detail the scope and content of what was done and, above all, the genius of the problems. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2012 there were no drugs for the treatment of hepatitis C, there were significant advances in research, but still in the scientific world, in Europe, in the Western countries and in Spain, we were starting some treatments with some doubts about them. Since 2012, therefore, in some countries of the world, combined treatments have been incorporated that exceeded the most traditional treatment, the Interferon, because it had serious side effects, in many cases, in addition to limited effectiveness. Especially since 2014 new drugs, based on other molecules, such as sofosbuvir, have appeared, which, in combination with others, could improve results in some patients. In fact, only a few months later – in the same year 2014 – other three different ones have been approved, and today, sofosbuvir is also overcome by new treatments such as daclatasvir. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, where new treatments are emerging within months, Spain and Galicia were the first countries to adopt these new treatments. To ensure precisely orderly access and equity to patients, to ensure the safety of patients when receiving these treatments, a subcommittee of experts was created, as it used to be, to understand that this was the best option, because it must be remembered that the experience in the use of humans of these drugs was very short and that the scientific evidence of the moment was very limited. And it must be remembered that drugs were not used for themselves, they were used in combination with others, and that combination with others could produce effects that doctors considered to be inaccurate. That's why, Your Honor, we've continued to advance over time, and that Sub-Commission of Experts is made up of five doctors: two doctors from the Hospital Complex of the Coruña, another one from Vigo, another from Santiago, a university professor from the Coruña and a pharmacist from the Hospital of the Coruña. By Sergas there were three persons: a director, a deputy director and a chief of staff, who, of course, were not the ones who decided the treatments, but were the ones who processed them and the ones who moved them to hospitals once authorized. Your Honor, at all times you have given sole priority to the interests of the patients; exclusively, no other interest but the interest of the patients. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The committees to which I have just mentioned, such as the Committee of Experts, exist in the Galician Health Service for other treatments, for example for growth hormones, for example for those linked to multiple sclerosis, for example, commissions that look at medicines related to oncology or hematology. So, Your Honor, it was nothing new that had a subcommittee of experts. Your Honor, I reiterate again, between 2012 and 2014 these treatments began to be discovered. From November 2014 until April 2015 the marketing of sofosbuvir is authorised by the European Agency for Medicinal Products and the Spanish Medicines Agency, which ceased to be supplied by compassionate use, by explicit authorisation of each laboratory, and falls within the scope of the catalogue of medicinal products. Indeed, since April 2015, the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C is when the final protocol is established, and from there, ladies and gentlemen, we not only perform the 1,137 treatments during the commission of medicinal products that were on the market, but since April 2015 we implemented 2,722 treatments, and Galicia has invested 78 million euros. Your Honor, saying that a subcommittee, of five professionals in the Galician Health Service, has something to do with the commercialist approach to health is simply a nonsense. It's nonsense, Your Honor, and it's an insult I can't admit. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a subcommittee not to give medication, when it turns out that this subcommittee has given to 99% of the patients drugs, it's just a lack of data and truth. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, the evolution of medicines and treatments is clear: in 2012, 160 treatments; in 2013, 264; in 2014, 339, and only in the first quarter of 2015, 374. That is, the extent to which drugs were marketed, the extent to which treatments were protocoled, we gave more; and we gave more in a quarter of the year 2015 than in the whole year 2014. That's why, ladies, I don't think it's reasonable at all. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we've been in Galicia investing in treating hepatitis C 130 million euros; 130 million euros invested in patients with that virus. I'm proud that Galicia, despite the difficulties, is one of the autonomous communities that is above the average of the rest of the health services in treatment against hepatitis C; by the way, far ahead of autonomous communities like Andalusia, Your Honor, that you are asking for reference. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u19	Quiet. Silence! Please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, 130 million euros invested in patients with hepatitis C is a clear enough figure not to talk about economic criteria; 130 million euros is to make a comarcal hospital; 130 million euros is to do 60 health centers; 130 million euros is more than the budget of the whole city of Santiago de Compostela for a year. That's why, Your Honor, my respect for patients, my respect for professionals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u21	Mrs. Hide, be quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u22	...my respect for family members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u23	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u24	Your Honor, I believe that the Galician Health Service, Galician doctors, Galician hepatologists, Galician pharmacists, Galician pharmacists do not deserve this supreme trial against the public health of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and, therefore, Your Honor, I will continue to defend the professionals, I will continue to defend public health and I will continue to tell the family members that we have done everything we can, according to scientific literature...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u25	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u26	... against hepatitis C. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u28	How dare you speak of the supreme trial? Do you want us to ignore what the prosecutor's office says, which, of course, you haven't read? Do you intend to ignore the judge's car, which, of course, you haven't read? And you're talking about moral principles. Well, yes, sir, of course we share them. And you speak of the defense of Sergas' doctors; so do we. Also from Sergas' denouncing doctors. Or are you not aware of the complaints made by professionals? Mr President, we have not come here to make a moral trial, we have come here to ask for explanations of what appears in the judicial authorities, which clearly mark a chain of administrative decisions – not clinical, administrative –, superimposed, precisely, to the decisions of the professionals. And I want to be strict with you, because, Mr Feijóo, if the situation wasn't the worst is the new Minister of Health, who put the resources and decisions in the hands of the professionals. And from that moment on, there weren't any dead. While the problem depended on you, unfortunately these cases were produced; when the state plan came into force, it's over. You have created a commission subordinate to administrative decisions. This is what the Attorney General's office says, with unjustified delays, delaying decisions, altering recruitment and financing mechanisms, splitting contracts into smaller contracts and thus making payments difficult, even ordered liver biopsy and high-risk tests that were not done in any community. And you can't claim ignorance, you're told repeatedly by the doctors, those you say you respect. As you can see, it respects all but those who dare to contradict their idyllic view of society. Even the Medical College of Pontevedra, as already said here. The truth is that in 2014 – not in 2012, not in 2013, in 2014 – when this problem had already been debated and voted against by you, in Galicia they became ill without treatment, something peculiar to Third World countries. And now, as much as bothering the advisor, I'm going to repeat: they can manipulate the data, but there are at least six dead people who have to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u30	And it was so shocking that when some doctor managed to skip the administrative chain, it turns out that his patient received treatment and saved himself.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u32	I read in the cars: involuntary murder due to serious professional misconduct, prevarication for failing to comply with the Commission's own rules. Listen, Mr. President, but don't you assume any responsibility for action or by default?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u33	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijó, in fact, you do not blame the opposition; it is the Prosecutor's office who relates these deaths to the cuts. He says they failed to meet the criteria established for budgetary reasons while negotiating a global agreement with pharmaceuticals. He says there have been unjustified delays and even changes in drug application dates to simulate lower waiting times. That's what the prosecutor's office says, Mr. Feijóo. Look, do you know the case of Jesus? It's a case that speaks for itself, Mr. Feijóo. Since you haven't taken the trouble of reading the complaint, let me comment on it. Since the hospital issued a favorable report until the Sub-Commission was asked to authorize treatment, it's been 24 days. But it turns out that, in the meantime, a laboratory has been offered to run at the cost of 300 treatments throughout the state, which has caused the procedure to be re-initiated to make it the laboratory which financed the drugs of this patient; a decision that delayed the arrival of the drugs weeks. When they finally arrived, unfortunately, it was also late for Jesus. And do you insist that it's silly to relate this to the clippings? Why, then, did they vote against this Parliament that new drugs were dispensed in hospital pharmacies? Why, then, are there 165 prisoners in our prisons waiting for these treatments? Why did Ourense's audience, Mr. Feijóo, have to force Junta to supply drugs to a prisoner who had been waiting for ten months? Why, then, has the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia had to remember that the right to health care prevails over the economic interest of an administration in a dispute between Galician Council and Penitentiary Institutions over whom the treatment of prisoners, Mr. Feijóo? Look, Mr Feijóo, pretending to be the champion in meeting the deficit has these consequences. Three people died without receiving the medication, the other three drugs arrived when it was too late.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u36	Therefore, you deduce the responsibilities, or responsibility, Mr Feijóo, you will end up falling solely and exclusively upon you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u37	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u38	Mr Feijóo, how easy it was to answer what clinical criteria justify patients who waited up to eight months for treatment! What were those clinical criteria? He didn't answer; it's obvious. You don't support public health professionals, you sneak around and burden them with responsibility. Moreover, you haven't heard them for months, and those professionals were the ones who most denounced the situation with letters contained in the prosecutor's complaint. You did so well, Mr Feijóo, that I am the first government criminally prosecuted for the relationship between budgetary criteria and death; the first government! So well they did and so diligent were that I am the first government related to this. Mr. Feijóo, the fulfilment of the deficit target of what I so suspect is built on things like this. Why does it not explain why on 28 January Galicia continued to operate with obsolete criteria and already exceeded by extensions of the Ministry of Health criteria? And it had to be the Hepatitis C-affected Platform who reported and who made that, for example, those over 70 years of age if they could receive these treatments, which they could already receive in other autonomous communities, Mr Feijóo. Explain that and stop walking in the branches. We all know the story. Because in addition, Mr. Feijóo, we didn't bring him to the bull last, we reported him, the doctors reported him, reported him to the doctors' schools and reported him to the Platform in advance, and you denied him. See, on February 11, the same day that Isolina was buried, here a PNL presented by the Platform was voted for the transfer of treatments without passing the Sub-Commission – February 11th. You voted against. On February 24, Madrid presented the draft strategic plan that eliminated subcommittees. You once again were more papist than the Pope, the champions of the cuts; in that they are the champions. And you're talking about equity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u39	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u40	What equity is there when there are cases with the same characteristics that have been denied and others admitted? What good procedure was there when the advisor himself was pressed and all the protocols were skipped to give treatment to a sick man, Mr. Feijóo? Apologize, Mr. Feijóo; apologize for your policies, apologize for your contempt...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u41	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u42	...that he had and by the deaf ears that he did to the health professionals for the sick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u43	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, 100 percent of the treatment of hepatitis C paid us the Galego Health Service; no other public administration, neither the Ministry of Health nor anything, 100 percent. Stop poisoning on those who pay for hepatitis C treatments. We pay them, we continue to pay them, and we will continue to pay them to all the patients who do so. Hepatitis C and any other medicines available to the European Medicines Agency and the Spanish Medicines Agency. Your Honor, it is false that no one has become treated with favor, and you know it exactly as I do, it is absolutely false! Who do you want to insult, the doctors who constituted the Commission?, do you want to insult, Your Honor?, these doctors who were nothing but an average of 13.13 days to answer – 13 days, Your Honor –? And those doctors were the most serious cases, the cases that, when they put together drugs, they had combinations that could cause even more problems to critically ill patients than they were supposed to not give the medication. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, it's these drugs and it's those doctors who prescribe drugs and, of course, we pump them. I repeat, how can it be implemented or how can it be said that we have economic criteria when we invest the Greek 130 million euros in financing 3,000 people and when will we continue to fund all those who have the hepatitis C virus? It seems to me, Your Honor, impropriety and unacceptable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, that commission was looking at anonymous cases, without knowing the patient's name and surnames; anonymous cases, without knowing what the hospital was sending them and exclusively based on clinical criteria and not on names or names, no rents, no plugs, no hospitals were diminating on a case-by-case basis, within their absolute autonomy, within their absolute morals and within the deontological principles of the doctors who formed the Commission. And that's why I defend all the doctors and pharmacists who confirmed that commission. Your Honor, that commission also existed in Asturias. There's a difference between Asturias, with a socialist government, and here. The difference, Your Honor, is that the opposition in Asturias is not the opposition we have in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u45	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u46	...at this moment. That's the big difference, Your Honor, and that they don't play with cases of hepatitis C patients. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, tell me if we read the prosecutor's complaint, which comes as a result of the previous complaint, and the judge's interim decision. Of course you do, Your Honor, and the judge doesn't admit certain qualifications to the prosecutor's office. Of course we read it, Your Honor, and that's why it's again a maximum nonsense, as the current representative of AGE says, saying that the government has a processing problem, criminally prosecuted. Who does such nonsense happen to, as the AGE Lord has just said? They don't care! If we already know that the AGE public health gives you exactly the same, because it never had any responsibility and probably never had any responsibility to make a decision in the country's public health! And I'd be worried that representatives of the AGE had the slightest possibility of managing public health resources in Galicia; I would worry massively, Your Honor. I read the doctor's proposals and opinions. Yes, Your Honor. I just read the last one, which I just left today in a newspaper: "The treatments I requested – more than 200 – were accepted", a hepatologist at Juan Canalejo da Coruña hospital. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u47	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u48	I suppose the Coruña hospital will have some kind of value, too. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to insist, here is the data of patients treated in all health services in Spain. The patients treated in the health services of Spain in Galicia are 42.35 per 10,000 inhabitants; on the average of Spain, 29. I mean, we treated more patients affected by hepatitis C in Galicia than in the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u49	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u50	I think this is good for all patients to know so they can be portrayed in their accusations. Look, Your Honor, we're used to what you do with health; it's not the first time, no, it's not the first time. This is not the first time that the government has been accused of raising patients' heights by paying doctors 30 euros (PSOE dît). It's not the first time PSOE plays a role and presents itself to elections as an electoral program saying that PP would charge for going to hospitals. He said exactly his paper 67 euros per consultation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u51	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u52	...and 513 euros per hospital stay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u53	Quiet, please. Mr. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u54	It is not the first time, Your Honor, that in full transfer from Vigo hospital the Socialist Party proposes to evacuate the hospital to all patients in the hospital, because it does not have the minimum health guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time in this plenary session – and the Journal of Session put it – we are accused of being charged for sleeping in the chairs of Vigo hospital. [[Murmurs.]] We owe that to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That's why I'm used to it, Your Honor, this kind of slander, but I don't think the professionals in the Galician Health Service deserve it. Spain is the sixth country in the world that most patients have treated hepatitis C. Spain is the first country in Europe that most patients have treated hepatitis C, and Galicia has an average treatment against hepatitis C above the first country in Europe that most patients have treated hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u55	Shut up, Mrs. Gallego!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u56	Those are the realities, Your Honor, and those are the commitments. [[Applause]] Your Honor, can you explain to me what economic interest you may have in postponing treatment against hepatitis C if you have treated more than 2,800 patients? Can you explain to me what we were looking for economically if we're proud to invest 130 million euros to treat patients against hepatitis C? Can you charge us some economic planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u57	Quiet. Mrs. Gallego, be quiet, please. Mrs. Hide, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u58	...when we made the greatest effort that the Galician Health Service has ever made in the face of a specific treatment? Mr. Méndez Romeo, I didn't expect this from you. And I didn't expect you, Mr. Jorquera, to do this. [[Murmurs.]] Obviously, from AGE we're used to anything, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u59	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u60	...to anything, because it gives them exactly the same. They do not come to manage public health, they come to destroy what we have achieved among all, which is dignity, respect and basic moral principles, which we are not willing to accept. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, Your Honor, it is surprising and unworthy that, having no candidate yet, you have neither a political project nor just a match... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u62	...start the election campaign. It's unworthy to start the electoral campaign using health once again to carry out an election campaign. [[Interruptions.]] Your Honor, Galicia is too big for them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u64	And that's why for those families we owe everything to them, I find it unworthy to use the suffering of families to make politics, and also to do politics in this way. But do you at some point believe that some government member, that some doctor in Galicia denied treatment for an economic issue? Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this is acceptable and I certainly don't admit it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. Quiet, Mr. Gallego, please. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the development by the Galician Union of the new strategic plan designed for the conservation sector to consolidate Galicia's leadership position on the market, without losing the social and labour involvement of this activity
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u66	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u67	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have put before the plenary of this House an initiative which we understand can be particularly beneficial in support of a sector relevant to Galicia and very especially for hundreds of villages and localities on our coast: Barbanza, Arousa, The Navy shines, the Great Vigo and for so many and so many districts. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about the cannery, we're talking about fish and seafood. In particular, through our parliamentary initiative, we insist and urge both the European Union and the Government of Greece to develop the Strategic Plan of Conservation; a tool that will enable us to consolidate our leadership position on the market without losing the social involvement and labour involvement of this activity in Galicia. We must not forget that the conservation sector generates nearly 3% of the gross domestic product of our Autonomous Community and in some regions of up to 10%, where they operate around 70 cannery industries, which are a source of wealth and employment for more than 11,950 people. Some days ago, for example, we visited Ribeira, who has been a referencer for more than a century in this productive field. Galicia leads in Spain and Europe a sector that brings to our hands a product appreciated for its great quality and ready to consume, which leaves behind it a long succession of processes ranging from its fishing, cleaning preparation, packaging, labelling and placing on the market. The German Government, in collaboration with the various agents in the sector, has worked and is still working on developing, redefining and designing a new strategic plan, a strategic plan for the conservation that aims to be a useful tool that updates and integrates all possible lines of action and future aid for the sector. The Council of the Sea, aware of the importance of the preserves in Galicia, must continue to provide support and be a firm ally in the pursuit of greater economic and social efficiency and profitability in a key sector in the chain of production at sea-industry. And in order to be able to do so through this initiative, the Greek Parliament has the opportunity to debate today the lines of what will be the future strategic plan and to enrich itself with the approaches that can be made if the opposition groups consider it appropriate to do so. In the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group, among the aspects that cannot be missed in a strategic design for our conservation are, among other things, the impulse for measures to increase the value of our preserves and also to consolidate existing business structures, aware that they have undergone a conversion process that has involved the closure or relocation of some companies. Our conservation deserves our efforts to put in place initiatives to consolidate the leadership position of local and international markets. In addition, the plan should enhance competitiveness through the increased implementation of the sector in research, development and innovation, and among them with measures aimed especially at improving the relationship of this small industry with the environment. And in order to finish, and probably as one of the most important columns of the future plan, we must strive to ensure stability and the quality of employment. The Union has in its hand resources to support these initiatives, and in particular the relevant role of women in this sector. They represent the vast majority, more than 90% of the workers in the canteen. We need to promote measures that deepen on such aspects as the promotion of indefinite recruitment, the identification of training policies and equal opportunities linked to the reconciliation of working and family life. In the People's Party, we believe that betting on the preserve of Galicia is, in turn, generating opportunities; opportunities to continue to offer and bring our most unique and quality gastronomic products to and from Spain and the world. The preserver of Galicia allows Galicia to share with consumers the best we have: preserve it. It gives an image of our culture, of the people of our sea, and it offers a unique gastronomic bet, which defines us. Ultimately, conservation is part of our essence. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have an opportunity to, from this Parliament, promote the Government's action in the development of the Strategic Plan of Conservation. We have many reasons to put the party struggle aside and show that we are able to bet unanimously on one of the most relevant productive sectors of blue Galicia. The German Government, through the Councillors of the Sea and Economics, Employment and Industry, has always supported this sector as far as possible. Today we want to move forward in this way. In my land, the Navy shines, there's a conservation company, specifically preserved Alonso, which announced the closure of its facilities and the centralization of its activity in another Galician region where they have another work center. From the rostrum of Parliament, from the highest institution we have in our autonomous community, I want to show our unconditional support from here for all its workers and workers, in the hope that, with the mediation of the Council of Galicia and the involvement of all society, it can offer a hopeful future and distinct from these professionals and those neighbors and neighbors of my region. And if you push this kind of strategic plan, it's good for the Navy and elsewhere to stop producing this bad news, it's certainly worth it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a chance today, among all, to take an initiative for the benefit of many villages, but above all for those about 12,000 workers and workers who generate this sector in our autonomous community. I hope you're up to it. I hope you have the time to support this initiative, not by the People's Parliamentary Group, but by those 12,000 people who are asking for this strategic plan. We're going to work in the future to continue leading this market. We're going to work in the future not only to lead it in Spain, but to continue to lead it in Europe. In fact, Galicia is a power in the conservation sector. And precisely because it is a power in the conservation sector we have to bring these kinds of initiatives; and precisely we have to bring these kinds of initiatives to continue to grow and to continue to occupy that market that we have always had and that we must not lose. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u69	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u70	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Mr. Balsairo, I am in bad faith, and here you come to ask me for a statement of faith of something we know nothing more than the exhibition part and the press announcement that you made of this plan. So today, you say that we are debating the strategic lines of the plan and that we can propose measures, but as the plan is not known, I don't really know what you're talking about; I believe that the propaganda of the People's Party and nothing else, because nothing has been presented here. So I'll talk about the exhibition part of your initiative. According to the exhibition, the plan drives a series of measures – unknown to all – that appear to be aimed at increasing the added value of production, consolidating business structures and leading position in local and international markets, but we do not know what these measures are. It also says that the plan seeks to enhance competitiveness through greater implementation of the sector in R & D+i activities; respect for the environment; ensure the stability and quality of employment after overcoming times of difficulty, but also does not tell us how. It does not tell us how the R & D+i will be implemented, what measures will be taken to respect the environment. We don't know if this will work – as it usually does in Junta – through subsidies to companies, which is usually the only measure it takes. We do not know what measures will be taken to create quality jobs; not only indefinite jobs, but also quality jobs. I mean, an empty content initiative, which says absolutely nothing, nothing! The conservatory is heavily subsidized by the Administration, including the Galician Union, and yet all these subsidies have never had an impact on the working conditions of workers and workers in the sector. Another relevant aspect of this plan – according to you – is the recognition of the role of women in the sector, with measures that deepen on aspects such as promoting indefinite recruitment, training policies and equal opportunities linked to conciliation... I ask you, do you know the collective arrangement of the canned? You have no idea what you're talking about! You have no idea what you're talking about! Read the collective conservatory agreement, an agreement signed in Madrid, a state convention, where the problem is not indefinite recruitment. Most of them are permanent workers. Stop it, Mr. Balsairo! That you don't know what you're talking about because you're only worried about the employer, you've never been concerned about the working conditions of the conservatory workers. It's more, the patronage of the Cantera, that employer you both defend and support, intended in principle that the collective agreement would raise wages, increase the daytime and charge part of the salary in cans of Cantera. So far the bosses have come here to support you! It aims to extend the day; to extend the working days from Monday to Sunday; to limit the free disposition with wage freezing; an agreement to 5 years; an increase of 24 hours per day; and the salary to 0% increase for 2015 and 0.5% for the remaining years. That's the employer you're defending! Wage discrimination in the sector is now different from the creation of new categories of work. That's how we find that a man assistant charges more than a manufacturing man. There's huge wage discrimination in the canteen. In a feminized sector, commandos are men. Really worry about what's happening, don't come here to sell us more propaganda! The only way to stop working precariously in the sector is to walk towards eradicating gender discrimination and the wage gap, and collective bargaining of a German agreement, since 90% of the sector is in Galicia. There's no point in negotiating an agreement in Madrid, far from the workers, far from Galicia's interests. That is why we are presenting this substitution amendment which calls on the Union to negotiate with more representative producers, conservative employers and trade unions a new strategic plan of the conservation that will strengthen our position of leadership on the market, excellence in product and in labour relations. And we're talking about conservative employers and trade unions because it's about creating these synergies that the Economic Councillor talks about in order to be able to have a consolidated sector, which is taken advantage of for all: for producers and for canning companies, and that has that benefit and growth in the working class. To achieve these objectives, Parliament urges the Union to promote urgently, between employers and trade unions, the establishment of the negotiating table of the first collective convention of the conserva de Galicia, urging the parties to eliminate any discrimination on the basis of gender. If they really care about the conservation sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u72	...if they really care about the sea sector and if they really care about the working conditions of the staff working in the canteen, they approve this amendment and withdraw their resolution. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u74	Good morning to all and to all. Despite Mr. Balseiro's veiled threat to Comrade Chelo saying you'll see now! it must be said that this initiative is an absolute indecency in political terms and that it does not say anything at all. To come here to debate this proposal is a grip of hair on the sector and on the workers and workers in this sector, who are always being massacred by an employer who wants them enslaved and with wages of misery. I shall read expressly what the People's Party's proposal says, so that we can see the degree of seriousness, commitment and work of the great spokesman of the People's Party. "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop the Strategic Plan of Conservation, which allows us to consolidate our leadership position on the market without losing the social and labor involvement of this activity in Galicia." I mean, it doesn't say anything, absolutely nothing. What's the strategic plan? What is your social bet and, above all, work? Talk about the collective agreement? Do you recognize a collective agreement where canned workers earn 31.36 euros a day for their work? Do you know what the reality is of an employer, who puts sensors in the production lines' seats to know how long they're producing, sitting or not? Do you know what that employer who is able to control the time women use in the bathroom, to limit the daily bathing time of these women? Do you know that reality? Is that the commitment of your social activity? So we, of course, told him that it is unworthy for the People's Party to bring this here without talking about wages, without talking about women who earn less than 700 euros a month for working many hours, and that today they are being used with absolutely irregular EREs that force them to work much more than they do. That's the reality of the sector. And when you talk about the sector, you should talk about relocation. And you have the indignity of coming here to talk about the backs of tuna and cleaning. Do you know what's the biggest problem with the country's job in the can? That the backs now come already produced from outside. You funded the relocation, and you enter the ports of Ribeira and Vilagaría already ready, which arrive at the Ribeira and all you do is get canned and put in a box. Before the job was the cleaning of those loins, which were done in our industry, and today it's not done. That's the reality of the People's Party. But I'm already outraged that you're talking about reconciliation. Are you talking about reconciliation in the conservation sector, when the employer intends to increase the annual agenda? When the employer is exercising military hand its labour reform, which prevents people who, for example, want to care for their children to determine when the day-to-day cuts are? That's the employer you know. Of course you know the employer, but you don't recognize the situation of the workers. Let's do an analysis of this sector, of what their realities are and what their problems are. What does this strategic plan say about the accumulation of capital in this sector; a sector that accumulates in only three companies or 60% of production? What are we going to do with that escalated destruction of small workshops, of small family-owned canteen companies, which were the ones that had the highest quality in their jobs and also higher quality in their products? What are we going to do with the massive destruction of our traditional preserve, the one with the highest quality product? What are we going to do with that question? What are we going to do about the two problems that concern our conservation sector, import and distribution chains as well? Today, almost 70% of the preserves that occur in this country are made for white marks, which is melting prices and merging working conditions. What is the People's Party's proposal about these two problems in the sector? About the situation of capital accumulation practically in three companies in this sector as a whole, and especially of the dangers of large distribution, which is manipulating our sector to convert it into a white brand producer and eliminating our potential as a differentiated brand of country and quality product? So when we talk about putting a strategic plan on the table, it would be nice if the People's Party had said what it is. I won't ask Mr. Balsairo to say what it is because that would be a lot to ask! But, of course, who writes the speeches to Mr. Balsairo could have studied at least what is the objective for this strategic plan and not repeat the statements here. You said here today the same thing you said in the press round that of Ribeira. It was the only thing he did about this initiative, a press conference in Ribeira. I had the opportunity yesterday to watch on the local television of my people what he said on that press round, and he said exactly as he is here today, because you are unable to get out of that script. Tell us what the strategic plan is. Now in the reply I ask you to tell me what the concrete measures are to eliminate the accumulation of capital; the concrete measures to try to alleviate the problem of import; concrete measures to overcome the monopoly situation of the white brand; concrete measures to improve the labour situation of our workers and our workers. That's what you have to do in the replica. I know you're going to accuse others and not say anything about this plan. So, since the Alternative Gaga de Left – that Mr. Feijóo, in an indecent way, said here that we came to destroy, when you were talking about your responsibility in the deaths of people – we ask him to build you and tell us from your stage what specific measures are, so that we can know whether or not you can support this plan. If there is no action, we will certainly not support this plan. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u75	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u76	Good morning, gentlemen. Indeed, we are facing a new propaganda initiative of the People's Party, whose purpose is to be able to get Mr. Balsairo out of the luxury navy; which, by the way, is one of the first times that comes out. When exactly in the Luxurious Navy it was where the press round was supposed to be, because there's an emergency situation – I was saying earlier – with Conservatos Alonso. But no, you left for Ribeira because there's really the one who's sent today to the cannery and there's got to beg him. And now he comes here and, indeed, I have to congratulate him because he has an enormous ability to get away from cars and buses, but also, like, to sell smoke, which is what you sell here today. I have to remind you that this conservation plan is nothing new. This plan has already been approved during the Bipartite, and it had a deadline from 2007 to 2013, remember, Mr. Balsairo? Well, I'm young, it would be normal for me not to know, but you, who already has asked here, in this house, the normal thing is that I knew that this plan had already defined what the strategy of our country's conservation should be. By the way, where Anfaco wasn't for work. So I already specified that this plan was based on the alternative of product quality and differentiation, while a part of the sector, represented by Anfaco – which, of course, is not a majority, despite the fact that it represents 60% of production – was a factor in competing with large groups, which based their strategy on market penetration at low prices and wage disregulation. Since 2009 they have been repeatedly promising and committed to developing it. Do you remember the commitments of 2009? Do you remember the calls of attention from the Secretary General of Anfaco telling you that neither for 2009 nor for 2010-2013? Nothing at all. But it's still worse, that then this commitment to the new plan has been re-edited and repeatedly is committing itself. Do you remember, for example, last year, the international meeting on tuna, where the president said it was already over? Do you remember the secretary general saying that at the end of the year he was going to be introduced? By then the secretary-general of Anfaco announced what the criteria would be; by the way, a little more explicit than the ones you come here to bring this morning. And then I was already thinking that one of the emergencies they had was agitating what FEN funds are going to be; that, by the way, I don't know what a problem you have because you recently announced to the Counsellor that last year you received the transformation sector nothing more and nothing less than 27 million euros, 27 million euros! Now yes, we have to say it clearly, without any connection to the extractive sector; this is the real reality. And it was also progressing, just as you came forward here this morning, who was betting on getting better working conditions, stability and the quality of employment. But you're not up-to-date, you don't work very hard, Mr. Balsairo. One realizes that a new collective agreement is under negotiation, which has been negotiated for more than a year, and by doing – as a previous representative pointed out here – that trade union representatives have to move to the capital of the empire, because the employer denies that there is a Greek agreement when our country's industry represents nothing more and nothing less than 80%, and production nothing more and nothing less than 86%. Convention that has jumped to public opinion for wanting to pay part of the salary in cans of conservation; to extend the working day to Saturdays and Sundays; to maintain labour discrimination – which has already been pointed out here – where men continue to charge much more than women; to eliminate seniority; to impose functional and geographic mobility; or matters as spectacular as Saturdays, if they work longer than two afternoons, they have a salary supplement of 3 euros. Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, less literature and more down to reality. And the reality is that we are at the end of the legislation and the manifestation of the sector has made it clear that you are no longer interlocutors. And we have to add that, above all, there is a totally clear pronouncement of the mexillon labeling, which shows the failure of its two legislates in front of the Council of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u78	Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, enjoy yourself! Now I think there must be others who aren't subject only to a part of the sector that bets by concentration, low prices and precarious work, and in which you are the mirror in which you are continually looking. Therefore, Mr Balsairo, we are not going to support this initiative at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u79	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u80	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and all. Indeed, as we are debating this empty content initiative, 40 women in the Navy are at a very serious risk of losing their jobs. And here Mr. Balsairo's emotive words are no good for anything but that; they are no good to solve any of the problems they have. In fact, today we will not even enter the bottom of the question in this strategic plan. And we're not going to do it because, beyond the possible interest that Mr. Balsairo and the People's Party can show in the conservation sector in Galicia, the final objective of this initiative we believe is more than fulfilled. And I say this because the main objective of this initiative, since its registration in the Galician Parliament, was nothing more than to serve as an excuse for the voicer of the People's Party to make a tour of different Greek villages, fortunately or accidentally governed by the People's Party too – see the case of Ribeira – and only self-promotion and occupy a media space that, if done well, would correspond to the Greek Government. In short, we are faced with a theatricalization, a staging of something more than obvious that you have already done or in a very advanced state. And that's because, if not, someone lies. Or mind you, Mr. Balsairo, when less than four months of completing this legislation, and after seven years of government, you come to the Galician Parliament with an initiative to urge the Government to make a document called the Strategic Plan of the Canter, which is supposed to be an extensive, long and time-consuming document. Or Mr Feijóo, when more than six months ago, at the World Tuna Conference, said, "The Union will soon present the Strategic Plan of the Candy, which will serve as an impetus to the sector. Therefore, some lie, Mr. Balsairo; or lie to you today, or lied to Mr. Feijóo more than six months ago. I really don't know how your group and the German Government let this guy bring initiatives to Parliament, because all they do is show little respect for you in this House and the citizens of this country. Moreover, by reviewing the hemerotheque, one can also find interviews published to the general secretary of Anfaco more than seven months ago, where he says things as significant as this strategic plan as the following – he read to him textually –: "We met all Anfaco entrepreneurs, collected what they wanted and put it at the disposal of the Board to develop a strategic plan. I can say it's practically finished. The last draft comes to us next week, and we hope it will be presented in a month." Even when asked why the plan was set, the secretary-general of Anfaco replied: "By measures of strengthening and consolidating corporate structures" – what you said here today. "The biggest start to modernize facilities with robotics, and also try to provide enough industrial floor and competitive price." After reading all this, Mr. Balsairo, what do you think who's listening to us? What do you think you are hearing today, and your group, bring an initiative to the Galician Parliament when it's more than obvious, for the information we all have, that what you're doing here today is almost done? What is to be thought, therefore, is that this is a mockery of the citizens of this country and a mockery of Parliament, Mr Balsairo! It is really not serious, very not serious, that today you are bringing this initiative into debate, with the legislation practically finished, after seven years of government, and after you have drafted and agreed on a strategic plan of conservation prepared by the previous government, by the two-party government. In fact, they have not been able in seven years to develop any of the measures and proposals envisaged in that plan, despite your having European funds to be able to develop the measures. And they didn't exactly because it was a strategic plan that didn't like the conservative employer, because it was a plan that I was thinking of people, a plan that I was thinking of small businesses. And you, as you have already shown in yesterday's debate on the Mexican sector in Galicia, defend other interests that have nothing to do with people and workers from an industry that – as it has been said here – tries to enslave them rather than offer them a decent job. So, Mr. Balsairo, if you and the Government of Galicia were efficient and worked with dignity, what you are asking for here today would be presented, it would be put in place and we wouldn't be doing this pure theatricalization that you've been used to so many times. For my part, nothing else, and tell him that logically we are not going to vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u81	Thank you, Mr. Val. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. The fact is that the opposition to fishing in this Parliament, for those of us who have been here for some time, has been the best opposition there has been, at best! [[Laughter]] The best for the People's Parliamentary Group, unfortunately, was the worst opposition there was for the Greeks and the Greeks and for the fisheries sector in general. Unfortunately, worse! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is, it seems, about making theater. Some of them consider Parliament that way. Others, we have more respect for him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In fact, some have said what they practically do here every day: theatre. Others are more responsible and we bring proposals, they like it or they don't like it... they're already doing theater, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u83	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u84	They're already doing theater...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u85	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u86	That's what we're good at on this side of the benches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u87	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u88	He likes or doesn't like the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u89	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u90	If it's true, and I also tell them to have something clear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u91	Don't interrupt. Mr. Balsairo is in use of the word and we must respect it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u92	...that with the support of you, or without the support of you – and something else we didn't expect from you – the plan will come forward. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you're going to go ahead because there's a responsible group and there's a government... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u93	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u94	...who works for the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, and especially for the general interest – which is not little – of 12,000 people living in the canteen, who seem to have forgotten that. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If we bring a closed plan to the Galician Parliament, because we already have a closed plan and there is nothing to debate. [[Interruptions.]] If we come up with an open plan so you can make proposals, then you criticize us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u95	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u96	What's the matter? That you don't have any proposals either in the lock or in the open, that's how it goes! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Wheels was talking about cars. Look, put it around you by the ports, I don't know if you know how to get away from the cars, now, is to put your group in front of the cars, constantly, with what you do out there in the ports. He says it's the first tour trip I'll take to Ribeira. Look, I made more trips through the confrereries and through the fishing sector in the first month of this legislation, which you all did in what's about legislation. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] But, Mr. Rhodes! [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] But don't worry, you don't worry about me going to Ribeira. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Actually, I went to Ribeira to present the plan. And now I'm going to go to another place where the conservation sector also has a large implantation, which is specifically in the area of Salnes, and I'm also going to explain to them what their position is. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u97	Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u98	You don't have any shame. You don't have any shame, you don't have any shame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u99	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u100	You're the most interested in Galicia, you're the most interested in the fishing sector, and you're the most interested in it is in theatricalizing, as you're doing. And Mr. AGE's representative said...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u102	... –Friendly, Mr. President –...that he didn't say anything, nothing is what you've been saying about the fishing sector since the legislation started, and it's over. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u103	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Quiet, please. No, shut up, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is Parliament and we must respect those who are speaking, even if they do not like it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is the greatness of Parliament, the ability to listen and the ability to fit. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is Parliament, it is Parliament, gentlemen. We are going to debate two accumulated proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the exclusion of post-doctoral researchers from the programme Ángeles Alvarino from the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 of the calls for post-doctoral contracts and support for post-doctoral training published in February and March 2016 G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the exclusion of post-doctoral researchers from the programme Ángeles Alvarino from the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 of the calls for post-doctoral contracts and post-doctoral training aid published in February and March 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u104	To these non-legislative proposals, the Joint Parliamentary Group has tabled amendments with the same text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u105	To defend the non-law proposition, Mr. Pombo has the floor first.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, representatives of the group of researchers who accompany us today, Angeles Alvarino. Welcome to the German Parliament and I hope that today we will be able to reach an agreement to urge the German Government to resolve an unfair exclusion. An unfair exclusion from the plans to promote the investigation of three promotions by researchers and researchers in Greece; an exclusion that obliges emigration – if not remedied – to three promotions by researchers who participated in the Ánxeles Alvariño Program; a programme to expand the training of the staff doctor by means of a two-year stay contract abroad and a year of return to the Greek university system. We can do something about history and say that the two-party government launched the Italian Plan of R+D+i 2006-2010, Plan Incite, with new measures to strengthen research by increasing the incorporation of human capital, strengthening research structures and enhancing technological cooperation. Measures taken to raise R & D effort to 1.06 of GDP in 2009. This plan 2006-2010 was designed to establish an itinerary with which to develop the research career in Galicia for the promotion of research, promotion that included calls for pre-doctoral contracts and two types of post-doctoral contracts. The first of them, Ánxeles Alvariño, convened in 2007, 2008 and 2009, three years of duration, as I said earlier, for the promotion of research and designed to retain the researchers and researchers from Greece. For young researchers two-year-olds outside Galicia, researching and training, and a year's return to the University of Galicia. Anxeles Alvariño program, which, by the way, this woman – born in Ferrol in 1916 and dead in 2005 in California, U.S.A. – is one of the world's first oceanographic precursors of research. In 1950 she was the first woman at the Spanish Oceanographic Institute, the first, because before women were banned from being able to be here. The first woman aboard a scientific research ship, not German or Spanish, British, that is, worldwide. He worked in Spain, Mexico, and the United States and died in California, at the age of 94, and didn't have the chance to return to the ground. He discovered 22 new species of organisms and two of them carry the name Alvarino all over the world, he named a oceanographic ship, he named this program what we're talking about, specializing doctors and doctors in public or private research agencies in Galicia, a program whose purpose was to retain the talent of Welsh research. The second postdoctoral program of the Incite Plan was the Pondal Parga, designed to give continuity to the Alvariño Angeles contracts, which were these from Pondal Parga at five years. Of 3+2, it is a commitment of stability to the incorporation of these doctors with contrasted medical training into public research bodies. The beneficiaries of this aid should, and should, undergo an evaluation process – as well as the Alvarino Angels – that would certify compliance with the quality requirements of production and scientific-technical activity involving a marked professional trajectory. Well, unfortunately, in 2009, the arrival of the Feijóo Government, goes ahead with the brutal budget cut, the biggest cut in R & D+i of the history of our autonomy. In the first four years 25% of budget cut, not counting the unexecuted one. It goes without saying that I have seen a significant reduction in the number of scientists in just over 1,300 years, less in the German research system and the decline, of course, of opportunities for the start or promotion of the research career, which forced many and many of our scientists and scientists to emigrate. President Feijóo – absent, as usual – has also put in place a new system, an I2C post-doctoral training plan; he should be disturbed by the important researcher woman from Galicia, Angelles Alvariño, who intends to bury forever up to his name, and now calls him a modality A program. Apart from this, instead of the Pondal Parga, that guarantee, in some way, five more years of stability, they now transfer us to another that they call mode B, with 20 aids, and so we realize the great esteem that the People's Party has for research in Galicia. In two words: the abolition of the Alvarin Angeles and the Pondal Parga, five more years of stability, is transformed into another that cuts, so it is renounced, in practice, to a Welsh researcher career. In this month of March, at the same time that Junta announced large records of foreign researchers as if they were football teams, at the same time that it announced large investments, it turns out that there is a complaint of the researchers from the Angelles Alvariño who are denouncing the exclusion of three promotions from researchers. In his complaint, this group of researchers, trained under the Alvariño Angeles contracts, claim that their exclusion actually means the end of our scientific careers in the Greek university system. They say they forget about three promotions of researchers formed by the Greek public system, accredited and evaluated positively by the Galego University System Quality Agency, and this exclusion assumes, in practice, the loss to the Greek society of the abundant public funds invested in our formation. They only speak of 160,000 euros on the theme of Angeles Alvarino. If we tell you about your career at the university, it's hundreds of thousands of euros coming down the river. This is the feeling, it must be borne in mind that many of these researchers who were outside, in view of the possibilities of these programs, even renounced the famous Fulbright scholarships, renounced them for coming to Galicia, and now it seems that Galicia gives them the doors in the flames to these researchers. BNG, of course, shares the view of this group of researchers and researchers that Galicia, of course, cannot exclude, in fact, three promotions from researchers, formed by the Greek public system, the possibility of continuing its research activity, nor should it allow the loss of public funds invested in its formation. The BNG parliamentary group, of course, believes that aid must be promoted so that they can participate without exclusion, and on the basis of scientific quality criteria, and not to have to force our researchers and researchers to emigrate. We believe that investment in R & D+i needs to be increased, and for this reason the BNG has tabled a non-legislative proposal to this Parliament, which is not the BNG, which is the claims of these three researchers' promotions that demand as basic things as the following: First, the call for a non-exclusive, competitive public contest based on merit and criteria of research quality, open to all and to all post-doctoral researchers, as has always been so far. Well under the same modality or in different modes, regardless of the plan they were previously hired by the Greek university system. Second request of researchers, to ensure the option of continuity of the Alvarino Angeles collective in the research career in the Greek university system to avoid definitely sending emigration to three promotions at the best time of their life, internationally formed and that Galicia should hand them over to use them in our R & D+i system. And finally, to ensure, of course, the equal opportunities of all researchers in order to continue the research career and be able to compete for public aid calls, of course not exclusive. Finally saying that I expect the support of all parliamentary groups to retain Greek knowledge, to support our R+D+i system, to support the transfer of knowledge from the research system...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u108	...to the productive system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u109	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also want to welcome the researchers who accompany us this day here, and that we, the Socialist Group, like the BNG, try to be their voice in the face of the injustice that is being done. Well, but before I talk about them, I wanted to talk about, frame the problem in the government's R & D+i policy of President Feijóo. Because the problem that these researchers are having is – it is a direct consequence – in the policy of R & D+i that has been launched in our country in Galicia since the arrival of Feijóo to the Government. An R & D policy based on advertising and propaganda, fundamentally, full of empty rhetoric – if not, the Research Plan made by PP I2C, full of empty rhetoric – is read. A policy characterized by precariousness, cuts and mismanagement, and also directed, fundamentally, with improvisations that are giving their fruit, what we're going to see right now. There is a total abandonment of all solid action, of reasonable action of research and innovation. That's what I'm saying now is very easily checked out, firstly, by seeing the assumptions, the R & D+i budgets from the arrival of Feijóo to the Government. About 25% less budgeting in science and innovation, it means 150 million less globally, and also a terrible execution of these budgets, with 200 million without spending. This is happening the same way in university R & D, where it comes from, where it comes from, the problem we're going to deal with. Although the Galician University System includes 61% of researchers and 80% of research, it is suffering from unacceptable cuts. We're talking about only one average budget of 45 million a year, both for research and for research contracts. But, ladies and gentlemen, between 2011 and 2015 this average of 45 million a year has stopped investing 60 million. There are 12 million averages annually that don't invest in university R & D. I insist that you have the largest investigative agents in our country. Why is this done? Because budgets are not real. It's done in a conscious way, not because our researchers don't have enough quality to earn all the help for research groups and contracts. It's done consciously to have budgets that appear, but then they're not. But I want to compare one thing, gentlemen. In the previous plan, at the Incite, as Mr. Voice of the BNG said, only research contracts were spent 44 million a year. Now, an average of 45 for research and for contracts. That's why our percentage of investment in R & D+i in Galicia since Feijóo arrived came down from 1.04% to 0.86%; as my colleague Mr. Losada said, always at the level of Turkey and Ukraine, and here we are with the People's Party. But besides all this, I also want to emphasize, as I said before, a policy of improvisation full of sectarianism and partyism, so we now have this problem. An improvisation policy that can be seen only at the beginning of the People's Party in Government and on R+D+i. Two and a half years, 2009 call when they arrived at the Government; 2010 and 2011, lost for R & D, for research in Galicia; 2009, the call for squares was reduced to half of what was the previous year; 2010, only a post-doctoral call of 15 squares, when earlier they exceeded 50; 2011, nothing. There was nothing postdoctoral or research promotion in 2011. They ended the research policy that year; two, at least two, promotions of graduates, graduates and doctors who didn't have to do in Galicia, who didn't have a place, they didn't have a chance to introduce themselves. In 2011, they approved a new research plan, because it completed the previous plan, as Mr. Pombo said, the Incite. In 2011 they created a new plan, they didn't make any calls. That's the PP R & D policy. But, in addition, they adopted a new plan, by the fact that it was rejected by all the research and innovation agents in this country, and from then on by the university, because they didn't look at the university, and they destroyed what the previous plan had done: the formalization of an itinerary, a research career from its beginnings, from the beginning of the doctoral thesis to the consolidation of researchers. A clear itinerary, where each investigator, once he passed a stage, knew what stage and to which he could present, if he had sufficient merit, to continue his career. This ended with the People's Party, and now, in all this, an inequality is injustice, because, as Mr. Pombo said well, what we are having in our hands right now, what are the researchers who had first support, a first post-doctoral contract Alvarino – by the way, Mr. Pombo, so you see the first or one of the emigrants also thanks to a non-existent research policy – because these researchers who chose this contract and who had this contract in 2007, 2008 and 2009 nobody gave them any chance to pursue their research career. Because there was only one call for help from the second postdoctoral Parga Pondal before, now mode B. We took five years to return to the screen, in 2010 for 15 researchers, not five years, not three years. So there was no chance that the Alvarian Angels of the previous program would continue their research. What did they do? Most of them have done what most of Galician researchers are doing: leave. A brain drain like you've never seen before, go away. Others have left and others are here defending their right, and we want to be their voice. The right, ladies and gentlemen, not to have a square without more, because what researchers are asking you to have a square or a contract Ángeles Alvarino in 2007, 2008 and 2009 is to give them the opportunity to opt for an investigation contract. They're not asking for a search warrant, they're asking them to allow them to choose, because the summons, which just appeared in March of this year, prevent them from presenting themselves. Because that summons, by the way, small and few years old, that call can only be presented by those who have already had post-doctoral assistance within the PP's research plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here. It turns out that a summons are closed not for those who have more merit, but for those who have had help from the PP, from the Popular Party's advisorship, from the Popular Party's research plan. This may have many names. You guys, I'm looking at their faces, they're thinking about something. Because it turns out that a summons are closed, and this means the end of at least 40 researchers who have sufficient merit to present themselves to a post-doctoral summons on equal terms than others; to present themselves, I insist. You're currently running a career with the research career of some researchers who, on the one hand, justified and tested their worth and, on the other hand, that all they want to do is have equal conditions than others. On the one hand, it's an improvised and ill-made policy, on the other, there's no economic efficiency here, we pay their scholarships first, we train them, and when they have the possibility to continue this research, already trained, we take them away and send them out. We've sent them out as an impressive amount of researchers are doing it, and as the reduction in the number of university researchers and professors that the research policy of the People's Party is causing. 19% less researchers since 2011, 8%, at least, less university teachers since 2011. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, these are the consequences of your research policy. At least at least I don't ask them to change it anymore, I ask them not to commit a gross injustice that may have another name in court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u112	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The theme that brings us here today is the ultimate expression of the vain intentions of the Government of Greece to consolidate those scientific and research careers – specifically those people who belong to the three generations who have already commented on the BNG partner and the PSOE companion – of Angeles Alvarino from 2007, 2008 and 2009, who, because of the change of government and because of the cuts, have never had the chance to participate in this kind of call in Galicia. In normal conditions if they should have agreed to compete for a Parga Pondal contract or equivalent, understood as a continuity and return contract to Galicia. If you say that the People's Party's Government Board launched a new plan that was to replace the Bipartite Incite, known as the four-year-old Welsh Plan of Research, Innovation and Growth, I2C. In other words, they still reduced one year and the post-doctoral contracts were to be launched for new and new researchers, as the previous plan was drawn up. The first call for post-doctoral second-level contracts, which have just been published in March, with a delay of several years, only allows researchers and researchers who have just completed the post-doctoral 1 contract launched by the PP Government Board, and intentionally leave out this Alvarian Angeles generation of the years already mentioned. If I ever get to the point that this means the end of the research careers of the Greek university system and forgets these promotions, in particular, that were formed by the Greek public system. This exclusion means a loss to society of the abundant public funds invested in its formation. We can't afford to deny these people the same opportunities. We often talk about starboard cards, but we forget and look down on our own and our own Welsh researchers, we condemn them to packing and looking for life abroad so that they can continue their research career. It seems that often merits always come given when one works outside, here they are never visible. To speak of this visibility that despite the merits that if you have the Welsh research are practically unknown, we have a lot of underlying problems, as one of them is communication. Say that Galicia stays behind other state communities in R & D such as Madrid, Catalonia, Andalusia, Euskadi, Valencia and Castile-Leon. Above all, there is a marked difference with regard to Euskadi, where this country dedicates 2.03 of GDP. Here we have to go back to 2004, at 0.86, to find a similar investment rate. It draws attention to the lower participation of public administrations in the face of greater involvement of universities in higher education, although economic capacity is increasingly lower. The public contribution to the Galician R & D fluctuated between 10% and 15% in this period, compared to the state average of 17% and 20%. And higher education institutions have reached a percentage of about 40%, even with a good average. The objective of the European Union for 2020 is to establish an investment of R & D over 3% of GDP, a percentage that has already largely exceeded countries such as Finland, Denmark and Sweden. In the Spanish state, investment was about 1.24 of GDP, far away from the percentage that Europe recommends to us, and in Galicia this gap is even greater, because we haven't even reached 1%. If you say, curiously, that the PP governments encourage other types of research, even taking into account the economic and social characteristics that we have, the Spanish State being the state, together with the United States, which most invests in R & D in military weapons or research. But, curiously, it's one of the least developed countries in basic R & D. It is estimated from the European Commission that each euro invested in research in the European Union generates an increase in added value; for example, industrial investment almost doubles the investment made for profit and jobs. If we dedicate this 3% of the recommended GDP by 2020, we could create more than 3 million jobs. Between 2008 and 2013 investment in R & D dropped 115 million euros in Galicia, almost 20%, representing 4% of the state total to 3.6%. Of the 6,600 researchers and researchers who worked in Galicia in 2010, we moved to a number of 5,397 three years later, that is, we went down more than 20%. The consequence is that Galicia dedicates R & D+i around 0.9 of its GDP, far away from the Spanish average 1.3, and even further away from the objectives that were proposed in the famous IC2 Plan of Join, which was to reach 2% of this GDP. Obviously, I continue to support the two initiatives, both the BNG and the PSOE, with the points it collects, even more so than on administrative matters if I had to do two separate things, to reach 2020 with 3% of GDP, because I believe that to have a strong country we must have a strong research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. A country that lets go, or expels, as is the case, experienced researchers, trained with public resources, in full investigative maturity, at the stage when the greatest social return can offer, is a suicide country. To pursue the research career of the group of researchers Ánxeles Alvariño, excluding them from the aid called, some help already scarce, disregarding their work, their baggage, is a luxury that as people we cannot afford. To liquidate three promotions of researchers, preventing them from entering competitive competition – they do not ask for anything – to be given to the already weak aids called by the German Government, it is an insult to the collective intelligence of our people, an insult that we cannot allow to happen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the German Government has led to the collapse of the German investigative system, so clearly and so round. He broke the circuit, cut off the pre-doctoral aids and cut down the post-doctoral aids. He blocked the research university system in its two phases, pre- and post-doctoral. He removed the two fundamental conditions to bet on by a research system, which is continuity and stability. Any country that seriously, or seriously, wants to bet on and push the researcher has to do it in a solid way in time and in a stable way, so that this will yield its results. I'm interrupting the investigation system, breaking up at a time of crisis, besides what we are, is assuming some consequences, of course, unacceptable to our people, to our country of the future. They broke up with our investigative system. I'm going to tell you about the indicators of the Spanish science and technology system: the Spanish Observatory for Innovation and Knowledge, therefore, official data, not speculation. The fall in R+D+i expenditure in Galicia was 20% in the last five years. Galicia lost 116 million euros in research investment. Galicia increased from 1.04% of research expenditure in percentage GDP to 0.84; in that same period the European average is 1.74, the average in France is 2.15, the average in Germany is 2.4. All the countries in our environment with which the German Government normally says that we are in competition, with which we compete, have increased their research spending, except for us, that is our model of competitiveness, competitive brand Núñez Feijóo. Since 2010 we have lost 1,423 researchers, I insist, data from the Spanish Research Observatory; 1,423 researchers who left their research career to work in another area or who directly emigrated from our country. We have 4.4% of the investigators compared to 8.9% of the average percentage in Europe, we don't even make half of the investigators. Per capita expenditure in innovation increased from EUR 363 per capita to EUR 175 in five years, less than half, a reduction of EUR 182 per capita in R & D+i expenditure. Can you resist this people like an attack? Of course, I don't think they leave us without a future, leave our country without a future. And what are the consequences of this model, the PP model? PP I say public-private, because it's the model of research they bet on. Since 2009, we have lost 8,000 companies in high and medium-tech, 8,000 companies that have disappeared from our country. We lost 100,000 jobs in the field of high and medium-tech, these last two data are from the IGE, therefore also official data. They've broken down with our country's weak investigative fabric, they've broken down with our country's already weak investigative fabric, and that has consequences for the future and immediate on employment; the unemployment rates, as you know, in our country are absolutely inescapable. And they don't have any kind of noise in full election campaigns, especially when the dates of the summons are approaching, saying that the big bet of the People's Party Government is research in Galicia. That's insulting citizenship and, of course, insulting researchers, who know perfectly the difficulties they go through. So we support this initiative, we support this initiative because with it we not only support a group of researchers, such as the group of researchers Ángeles Alvarino, but because it is a call of attention, an alarm signal, perhaps definitive, of what is happening with our investigative tissue. You have a model of your own investigator, I told you the PP model, it's the model you're defending, implanting in Rozas. Yes, a model according to which 20 million euros are given to Indra, the company from Punica, the company that has a debt of 700 million euros, the company that has fired 2,000 workers, the company that has seen its share value fall by 50% in recent years, the company that has fired the workers and which, therefore, will not generate jobs in Galicia; because that company is given 20 million euros in a public-private research project to manufacture drones, drones that are not going to manufacture, because Indra does not manufacture drones, it assembles systems. And they cheat on citizenship and take the hair to the research sector, because the Galician companies that are engaged in innovation in that sector, in the aeronautics sector, were banished and could not, of course, access those contracts. You bring our country to ruin. So they support this initiative if they have a minimum of decency left, they support our country's researchers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I also greet the people who follow the debate today from the rostrum belonging to the summons of the Incite and Angeles Alvarino, welcome to the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, today what we've seen is again using a part of a research plan to do a general cause against the research policy of the Galician Union, and since we're in general cases, because we're also starting our general cause before we get into the concrete of this non-legislative proposal. The Council of Galicia is firmly committed, and I shall demonstrate it decisively by research, development and technological innovation in Galicia. In fact, at the time of Government Feijóo, two legislations, it was at the time when most researchers consolidated the Galician university system, which more data – data, it is not worth bracing –, data, come here and bring data, I'm tired of bringing data into commission and full, and it's exactly the same as cold iron, because they come here and always repeat the same arguments and do not contradict a single data from those who contribute themselves; macro figures, but never concrete, bring data. The same number of researchers in 2008, the same number of researchers as today, 2016. They contradict the data, even the number of researchers, there are no more; there are 600 research groups that you had in your own university system, 100 that are only classified as competitive reference. Today there are fewer research groups, yes, 250 competitive reference, go to the gallery and say that the data is not true, go out and tell them. Today, 404 researchers only account for the budgets of the Galician Union, outside the Plan of Financing of the Galician University System, go out here and say no; with Plan I2C made by this Government, not by the People's Party, by the Government of Galicia – which has successfully won the elections, exactly like the Government from 2005 to 2009 – which is not the Plan Incite, it is not the plan of the PSOE, I suppose, it will be the plan of that government that won a presidency by the democratic form, which it held most timely, after losing the elections. Plan I2C, go out and say otherwise, 311 post-doctoral contracts, say no, funded 100 percent by the Galician Union. 2016 appeal, 8.7 million euros to consolidate and give continuity and stability to researchers in the Galician university system; 75 new contracts that will make a total of 207 postdoctoral, assets, go out and say otherwise, and add 247 formal, predoctoral, go out and say otherwise, and 60 stabilized, go out and say the opposite, provide data. And now we enter the Alvarino Angeles, who deserve the respect of all of us, deserve the respect of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, neither the plan itself nor the subsequent calls for any expansion of public aid to this plan. Come out and say otherwise. When he says here that there was a voice in the doors in the locks, or a voice in the doors that they were given, it was the ones who developed a plan and formed a paper without contemplating what they're now claiming here. They want us to do it, but look, however, for the Maria Barbeito and the Parga Pondal, if you have designed a continuity and a consolidation, why not the Angeles Alvarino? Saian is the answer. Look, I'm not going into any more debates that really lead to little clarity. All the Alvarino Angeles, all of them, were able to extend their stay in the university research system one year longer. In 2012 there was a call, a specific call, closed only for them, only, could not compete any other, no other plan or recent doctors, no more, just them, and they had 25 aid pitches and only presented themselves 17. In 2013 they again had another one, this was for 2008, for those in 2007 and 2009 they had another call in 2013, 50 pitches were convened, 27 were introduced, all those that were requested, both for those in 2012 and for those in 2013, all those that were requested, and 12 of them left because they found other better options. They stayed in total 30 of this Alvarino Angeles Plan; that's the reality we have today on the table, and if not, because they go out here and say otherwise, 75 offered squares, 44 requested, 44 granted. That's the reality. And in summary, Your Honor, I don't want you to misunderstand anything that I said or what I'm going to say now, I think you've received a very good training that allows you to be the quality needed to compete in other nationally, seniorly or seniorly plans. We believe that it is possible with the training they received in the Galician public system that meet part of those expectations generated in the Incite itself, that it was to participate in public research and in the private sector of private research groups, which was what the Incite reflected. In any case, what if it would not seem logical is that, by guaranteeing the equal opportunities that you have to guarantee the whole administration at all times, if you open the new calls to people who have researched people, who have a broad curriculum and who would be, of course, unfair we will bar them for the new ones, which you have not done in your plan either, because if it is a task to incorporate new people into the research system in Galicia, that is, and if you are against that they go out and say it, that we will also say that you are against continuing to incorporate new people with all the opportunities that they have and that they deserve into the research system in Galicia. And from here on, all we want to say is that we hope both the Angeles Alvariño and those who belong to other programs, as well as those who develop their research activities in Galicia plans, find their jobs, find their jobs to investigate and continue to develop, even their own strategic line, that there are opportunities to do so. And before I finish, I want to give you a data, Mrs. Burgo. You talk about things that are not true. When you talk about budget numbers, tell me how much you've invested most in a year or total government research research, and see if the year 2007 was the year that was most dedicated, it was 14.4 million euros, if it looks like something at 24.6 2014...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u118	...or if in 2006-2008, they invested – they did not spend, as you said several times – 34,35 million euros, by 51.3 of 2012-2014 – finished, Mr. President –. And for this year, EUR 50 million in R & D research in the budgets of the University Financing Plan, apart from the agreements that signed ex-financing to Junta de Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u119	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Replica, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u120	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the parliamentary groups that expressed support for this initiative. Secondly, I will accept the Joint Group's addendum amendment to increase investment in R & D+i to 3% of GDP on the horizon of 2020, because BNG, of course, believes that the best investment in R & D, the highest qualification of staff – which resembles research results in university classes – is the largest socio-economic development in our country. To say that we are going to support the non-law proposition of the Socialist Group, because it is fair claim of the team of researchers Ánxeles Alvariño. The BNG Parliamentary Group already in 2009, when it had government responsibilities, it was affixed to define a scientific career, by the training that Galicia was recognized at the time as the Autonomous Community which more and more affixed to the investigator's staff. I was betting on researchers participating in European and world research, more to retain talent and bring them to their land. Also by way of promoting the Ángeles Álvariño program. To regret that the People's Party does not support the fair claims of the collective of researchers, supported, by the fact, not only by this parliamentary group, but by the three universities currently in the Greek university system. They do not claim prebends or new squares, and the only injustice, Mr. Farínas, that we know – at this moment in this debate – is that there is an order of aid which excludes taxively researchers who, by the way, can go to Portugal, can go to Flanders or go to Belgium, who will make good use of them, instead of taking advantage of them on our land. For BNG, of course, Galicia cannot lose these three generations of researchers after the investment made in them, at the most productive moment and with a positive assessment. All the countries of Europe invest more in research. Germany went from 2% to 2.5%, then 2.8% and walked to 3%. We started at 1.06%, we're at 0.84% and we're walking down. For the BNG, we have to bet on implementing, because here in the Alvariño Angels we have potential and we have the quarry that Galicia needs; because the dairy sector, the forestry sector, the naval sector, the automotive industry, the aeronautics... are demanding more recognition for researchers, boosting our productive sectors, boosting wealth creation, boosting our socio-economic development and our health. BNG, of course, will always support Greek talent and research, will support use in our country, and I hope that all parliamentary groups alternative to this government, which deny such a fair thing, will maintain their bet today and forever. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u121	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Replica, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank all the groups that support this initiative, of course we will also accept the amendment of the Joint Group, because we would like it to be true that it could be up to 3%. And we support, of course, the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block. Mr. Farínas, I think you have to give yourself – as Mr. Pombo said – a return to the universities, because I think you are not aware – why you are – of what is happening in universities, of the problems that are happening in universities. Look, I'm not going to join you in a cipher war, but I really want to tell you something. Only between 2007 and 2008 did the former Government issue more than 600 research contracts. You're talking about 311. You didn't give any, none, neither in 2010, nor in 2011. Secondly, the previous Research Plan, the Incite, did give a new phase, a new stage, for the Alvarian Angels, Parga Pondal was called, five years: three initials and extension of two; five years. Yes, I gave them. They went out about 59 squares a year. You can't tell me there wasn't an exit, not an exit, but a continuity in the investigation of those who had Alvarino Angels. That continuity was stopped by you, you didn't give it, there wasn't that call, and they thought they were covering their mouths to the Alvarin Angeles by giving a year to the five people who would choose, not to have, but to have them. And you didn't give it to her. You, because of partyism, have curbed the entire consolidation of these researchers, and now you intend to make a call that can only be allowed, you can choose, the researchers who have had a post-doctoral assistance given by this Government of the People's Party. That's the reality of what you're doing. You know, as the Government knows, that it is a remarkable injustice, that violates the right to equal opportunities. And that's why we don't ask them to participate in the call that's already published, but to make another call open to everyone, to them and to the others. You know? Because here we are not trying to do as you do, a party call, unfair and that wants to stop -- you know why! -- the research career of some researchers, who have already proved their worth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u124	...that you seem to doubt, by your words, but that you have already proved it here and out, and that you can prove it anywhere. But I insist, they're not asking for a place, they're asking for a chance. But do you know what's going on, Mr. Fariñas? That you don't believe, or have ever believed, in research and development policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u126	–Finished–. You only believe in an economic model, which is now called internal devaluation; an economic model based on low-quality wages, which is already known to be giving bad results, but, of course, with low- and low-quality wages, it's easier to dominate people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government to alleviate the losses caused by the atrocities suffered on the days of 29, 30 and 31 March 2016 in various municipalities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u128	This motion for a non-legislation tabled an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Ma Soledad Soneira Tajes, through her spokesperson and in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal:"Amendment for the addition of a new point 3a]] 3.bis. Completeing the flood risk management map of the whole of the territory of Greece as a fundamental tool for the prevention and design of infrastructures and measures that prevent or palilen, to the extent possible, the foreseeable risk of floods. Amendment of a new point 3. ter) 3.ter. Designing, as an emergency, plans and actions in areas of the Galicia Costa basin identified as flood risk. These actions must be designed in collaboration with the municipalities concerned and the corresponding deputies. Amendment of a new point 3.c) 3.quater. Designing permanent instruments, equipped with material and personal means, to keep river basins in areas qualified as a high flood risk, and to act on any other incidences that contribute to or provoke flooding at specific points in the territory."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u129	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u130	Good day to all and all. Today the BNG Parliamentary Group defends, through this initiative, four points to support the losses suffered by many people in our country after the floods that occurred at the end of last March. In particular, at these four points, what we are requesting is to urge the Galician Union to: firstly, it approves specific aid to repair these floods, both for personal and property damage, and for damage to property linked to economic activities, particularly in trade, tourism or loss of profits due to the paralysis of activity during the repair period. To approve aid to local authorities and municipalities for the losses suffered after these raids – both local infrastructures and equipment – in order to speed up their recovery. Agreements are established with public administrations or entities for the repair of the damage caused, and it is also addressed to the Government of the State for the approval of special aid and credits to compensate persons, companies or entities affected by the floods, granting, in addition, awards or concessions in the payment of State taxes, social contributions, as well as priority credit lines, with public support for relaunching economic activity. We do so because we understand that even though these floods were located in a number of municipalities, such as the Town Hall of Carballo, Ponteceso, Cambre, Oleiros or Sada, it is true that these floods, especially in some of these municipalities, have had a very important impact, both as regards property assets for damage to vehicles, damage to homes, as well as in the commercial activity itself. In fact, visiting Sada a few days later, it was as remarkable as in the street where there was a greater impact of the floods most of the shops were closed, and not only were they closed for repairs, but we even know that some of these shops have already decided not to open, because they were unable to assume the cost of that activity, and that there were real human dramas behind these closed fairs of many people who made important investments to raise a trade and then they see how the water took forward all the hopes, all the work and all the dreams they had deposited in those municipalities. So we don't understand how at this point Galician Union has not acted in this area and is looking elsewhere, and even the amendment of the People's Party, if you allow me, it seems to me that it is the best statement that the Union has no interest in doing anything, and continues with that policy of arms crossed in the face of the country's problems; it looks just like it's aid for flooding, it looks just like it's about the dairy sector or the fishing sector. The Union never has any responsibility for anything, and it is more, when it is said in this Parliament that they have to arbitrate aid to the damage caused by flooding, they say they do it to others, because that is basically what the amendment of the People's Party comes to us, and we have to say that this does not seem to us to receive. Just as we do not seem to receive that throughout all this time Mr. Núñez Feijóo had no time, had not found a minute in his busy schedule, to visit the affected areas, to hear first hand what is happening and, above all, to make himself available to the Greeks and the Greeks affected by these floods to listen to them, to listen to their amendments and to help at a difficult time; because what for many may seem foolish, to the life of many people may be decisive, because behind things that may seem to us that do not have such an impact, if there is. There are people who might have lost a vehicle that was adapted, because they have people with disabilities in their home, and nobody pays them that cost. And what's the cost for that person who can't move out of his house because he's lost that adapted vehicle? Well, we thought these are the stories that Mr. Núñez Feijóo had to hear, and these are the responsibilities that this government should also assume. Of course, we don't understand how the People's Party was asking for help when it was in the opposition, or even in the face of some other kind of damage of very similar characteristics, to which we are speaking today, the Galician Union did approve specific aids and in the case of these floods, neither are they expected, in view of the amendment presented by the People's Party. We have very clear that we are facing a problem in which there are also various causes, of course there is a problem that has a difficult solution right now. And in the case of Carballo and in the case of Sada, especially the urbanism that took place during the 1970s and 1980s caused the flood zones of the rivers to be invaded with housing and there is a problem of difficult solution today. But it is also clear that in the specific case of Sada the board of Galicia did not foresee well the risk there was in that area, and at this moment we too find it wise to re-configure ourselves and to revise that flood map. And, above all, that the Galician Union has to implement the measures that are contained in the prevention of risks, because even if we see plans approved there, if we make plans to eliminate obstacles in the rivers and then we are not acting in this area. Just as Junta is not acting or exercising her powers in terms of Galician Waters as far as the cleaning of rivers is concerned. It's the municipalities that are cleaning up the rivers right now, while the Galician Board only makes it allow. So there are major deficiencies in this area that should be corrected. Today, with this initiative, we want to draw attention, firstly, to the fact that the Galician Union is looking elsewhere at the problem that continues to exist in these municipalities, as much as life has been returning to its normality; that there are some losses that should be compensated, and above all as far as the area of the trade sector is concerned. There's a sector that's already heavily affected by the crisis and for those people who have had to have the bars of their closed business, or who have made the final closure, that means an important problem. We believe that, in addition, the current risk map of the Galician Union should be acted on and modified, and that the planned work should be carried out quickly. And that, therefore, there should be answers to these kinds of questions, which are where a government should first be with people and not carefree, as Mr. Feijóo's Government did. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Obviously, we will support this initiative. It has to do with another that we'll be presenting for the floods that have already occurred in January. Because, unfortunately, we have, in fact, the latest data made public by Meteogalicia tells us that it rains more in these months of 2016 than in the whole of 2015 and that continues. And curiously, almost all flood episodes occur on the same sites, and it gives the impression that here nobody plans the infrastructures, as far as possible, being aware that these episodes can not always be expected. But it seems reasonable that if Caldas, Ponteceso or Neda occur each time there are episodes of severe flood showers at specific points, there will be a search for a solution, because it reproduces continuously. And anyone who devotes a little attention to this, and looks for it in the hemerothecs, will see that when we have particularly virulent fronts in the climate at certain points in Galicia there are always problems. Of course, we also find that since Mr. Núñez Feijóo ruled because these concerns seem to be minor, and they are very contrasting with those he had when he was in the opposition, where he even asked for resignations. Of course, here often we are told that there is one position in the opposition and another when it is governed; obviously, analyzing this subject gives the feeling that they refer to the president of the board. We present a three-paragraph amendment in point three, which is where duties are placed on the Galician Union. Because I agree with Mrs. Pontón, come here and say, listen, this is whether the state will fix it or fix it. Deputies now because they rule others, if they rule them, they are sure that they would take out of this amendment and leave what comes out of it. What do we say? We say we need the complete map of flood points and where there are historically floods in Galicia, and we have to do it even in those places where we have no competition in watersheds. I mean, here you have announced the ones of the Galicia-Costa basin, but it turns out that the others do not, but, however, in those cases is our competence, and from the environmental point of view, from the point of view of civil protection, emergency services, etc., etc., etc. The damage Mrs Pontón said is much more serious, because in primary sectors, the supply of fresh water that has reached the creeks will mean, in economic terms, how many losses for our mariners, not to mention other fishing activities. Why? Because empirically it is shown that when contributions go from a certain level to a low level the salinity of the waters, it dies, breeds, breeders die. And on occasions seafood banks are completely lost, not for that year, but even for the next year, because depending on the time of year the breeders die and, therefore, there is no rest the following year. But the same can be said of the field, where we are having problems with silo, for example, certain areas of grass, which is fundamental. The longer you delay the seed of corn of silo, too, and that means astronomical amounts of economic resources for dairy farms – it was discussed here yesterday – that the less you can contribute to the forage of your own territorial base, for more difficulties will have. And then there's something else that tells you the counselor about psychological issues and other occurrences. And the reality of the country goes on one side and the official reality because it seems to be going on the other. And then Galician waters should be taken seriously the cleaning of the river channels, because it is true what Mrs. Pontón said, sometimes the mayors read their blanket to their heads and decide to clean them. And some mayor and some responsible concierge has ended up in the courts denounced by Seprona, because the competition is not theirs, and above all that requires a series of administrative procedures which turns out that Galician waters do not see it. Look, I have here a request, with included technical report, sent last August to Galician Waters to clear certain river channels of Fene that Galician Waters passed through where it happened. The result was that in January we all saw how to get people out of their homes in tire rafts in Fene. The Fene Town Hall has been announcing it since last summer, waters of Galicia, and he didn't want to see it or, apparently, he still wants to see it. Yes, Mrs. Mato made statements in the Coruña very much of Mrs. Mato's style: "And the mayors don't ask me to fix it." Sure, they fix it and then the mayors and the concierge charged with environmental crime end up, you know?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u133	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u134	So let's be serious, plan, organize. And who has the skills that it takes, because you can clean the rivers without needing to change the ecosystem. Nothing else. We will support the initiative, whether or not we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. One of two, or we're either facing the launch of Mrs. Pontón's election campaign or you don't know what the Galician Union has done in recent weeks on this matter. And, therefore, since we're not going to be wrong, I hope to put data on the table that allows you to understand why we tabled our amendment. According to information provided by the Galician Emergency Agency, a total of 239 incidents were recorded between 29 and 31 March due to adverse weather impacts. The municipalities where most of the incidences were recorded were Carballo, Bergondo, Sada, Cambre, Artexo, Oleiros, Culleredo and Carral. In this kind of incident, it's obvious that a number of issues have come together as a meteorological alert, as often happens on other occasions, which could not have had the necessary advance, the sufficient advance. In this sense, the initial forecasts have been greatly overcome, a situation of continuous rains that lasted for several days and which, of course, negatively affected the permeability of the soil. The urban issue that we cannot forget and that someone has given these licenses to build on land that when it rains in this way collapse, and therefore there will also be municipal responsibility. And finally, the cleaning and conditioning actions of the channels, as already indicated. In this sense, what we have to say is that Galician Waters performed a cleansing and conservation performance in 2015, precisely in the Sada Brañas area, which involved an investment of more than 18,000 euros. And in 2015 Galician Waters performed 126 performances in the Galicia-Costa hydrographic area with an amount of 1.2 million euros. So what Mrs. Soneira points out is simply not true. With regard to the flood risk management plan, I have to tell you that it already exists, that it was approved last December by the Galician board and that it has an budget of EUR 67.8 million, of which 70% brings them to Galician board. It's a plan that identifies, in addition, 207 differentiated areas that have a potential risk of this kind of crushing. We understand that in this situation all administrations have to cooperate, not only the Galician Union, but also the Galician Union. And that's why we are presenting this amendment of substitution with which we intend to involve the Council of Galicia, the provincial deputies and also the state. The amendment tabled by the People's Group reads as follows: "The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to: 1. To establish, in its case, agreements with provincial deputies for the repair of damage caused by public infrastructure and for the restoration of public services in the municipalities affected by the floods of 29 and 31 March. 2. To address the Government of the State in order to approve extraordinary aid and credits to compensate persons, companies and entities affected by the floods, granting awards and/or concessions in the payment of State taxes, social contributions, as well as the establishment of priority credit lines with public backing to relaunch economic activity.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh As I suppose you know, on April 14th and August 14th, Galician Union addressed the Fegamp, through a letter sent by the Vice President of Galician Union to the Fegamp and also by the Infrastructure and Living Councillor Ethel Vázquez, in which it is said that once received information from the municipalities concerned, which in this case are 24 municipalities, the writing says: "The Galician Union shows its willingness to collaborate, together with other administrations, in financing the actions needed to repair these damages," – the damage caused by these municipalities – "being necessary, in any case, to be adequately certified by the councils." Finally, the Council of Galicia would be prepared to cooperate, subject to certification of the above circumstances, in the financing of the actions which are detailed up to a third of its total amount, individually considered, on the understanding that the remaining funding could be provided well by the council itself, either by the provincial deputies or by other administrations for the purpose of the duty of collaboration that everyone, and especially the provincial entities, is responsible for. This is the offer of collaboration that was shown to the municipalities concerned on April 14th to Junta de Galicia, to these 24 municipalities, through the Federación Galega de Municipales e Provincias. And that's why, according to this collaboration offer shown with Fegamp, we present our amendment. We could not support the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, understanding that this plan they are asking for already exists and is perfectly approved last December. For our part, nothing else. To insist on our willingness to collaborate with the Galician Union, along with other administrations, which is what is intended with this amendment, and according to what the Galician Union has shown in its communication with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u137	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u138	Good morning and thank you very much, President. Well, these events have some causes, causes and reasons to get to this situation. A flood, a landslide, occurs when a grown-up, by natural or meteorological phenomena, takes on human interests and spaces. So it doesn't seem logical that you can build, build, in a flood bed of a river or a river, because the buildings will have problems in the future with everything, absolutely with certainty. In addition, if the result of the fires the banks of the rivers are without vegetation and the pond is not able to store the rainwater, in a river without vegetation 70% of the rainwater that had previously evaporated, it will now stop at the rivers increasing its flow. On the other hand, wild urbanization, brick culture, badly-made river beaches, dams, sources where there were springs, causes the destruction of habitat. All of this must be added to the pollution by the contribution of substances, of urban discharges, of organic matter, of toxic chemical discharges, and the increase of water temperature by thermal power plants, the consequences of the capitalist system. It may sound old to say this, but it's the sad reality, the capitalist and liberal system that we all suffer. And the rupture of the natural balance of rivers and rivers, to whom does it benefit, for the pure economic interests, and leaves the population of these areas to the arbitrary of unpredictable and unstoppable weather phenomena, as it has happened these days, in these past months in many peoples, especially in the province of Coruña. It's a lot of damaged people, many ruined businesses and many uninhabitable housing because of the floods. It's a population that needs urgent, urgent help to recover normality and develop its economy, seriously damaged by the catastrophe. This aid must come from the political leaders, who are also responsible for the deterioration of these areas, for the environmental deterioration of these areas. So I hope this PNL will be supported, because it is a PNL of justice, in all four points for this plenary, as the Joint Group will do. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u139	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u140	Well, good morning. We are going to support this GNP, and as for the amendment of the People's Party, I am not the one who has to accept it or not, if that commitment of Mr Rueda, the vice president, and of the Fegamp, is thus, the explicit commitment of the Board to help, which is not reflected so clearly in the amendment he is presenting. The wording should therefore be more explicit in the support of the Galician Union and in the economic support of the Galician Union so that it can be supported. Because if we agree that these are exceptional, extraordinary damage, that solidarity needs to be applied to those who suffer the most serious damage, and Junta says that it is compromised, and makes that commitment, the amendment is not so explicit. Well, there are issues that are short-term, and these are always dealt with in this country, as can be, in this case, the accommodations that have been held very recently in these municipalities. But there are other issues that are in the medium and long term, and those are issues that are not strictly dealt with by successive governments. Mr. Tellado was talking about urban issues coming from behind. Obviously, I lived in Sada until ten years ago, lived twenty-five years in Sada, well I know who ruled there and who did what he did with the urbanism of Sada, it's obvious. But when it's so obvious that in Sada there were two rivers that were discourte in the open air and were intubated to build on those rivers, because it turns out that Sada is not on that flood map, we don't understand why, we don't extend why Sada isn't on that map. So it makes all the sense to amend the Socialist Party, all the sense. You have to study well and you have to be much stricter. Clearly, when a flood zone is declared, it has its urban consequences, and that's why the impression that many areas are not declared. But we can't be paying further so that some get urban surpluses building in flood zones. And in the medium and long term, in these measures we do not see a commitment at the Galician Summit to implement that rigour. So in those two plans, we have to work. We believe that the amendment of the Socialist Party is very complementary in that sense, you cannot properly give the current map when Sada is not included, because Sada is an area with an obvious flood risk that is not included. So we are going to support, hope that there will be a unanimous agreement, call for an explicit commitment by the Board to economic aid to these councils, in the sense that it does not appear in the amendment of the People's Party, and hope that it will go ahead, because it is a commitment of solidarity with these councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u141	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Pontón. I must thank Mr. Tellado very much for giving us the letter in which I do not support this initiative, especially because he reveals his lies. Let's see. The Galician Union shows its willingness to cooperate, along with other administrations, in the financing of the actions needed to repair these damage, and it is necessary, in any case, that the local administrations concerned issue certification on the following extremes, all of this in order to justify the extraordinary objective circumstances that would motivate this intervention. First requirement, which is for the repair or replacement of municipal infrastructure or equipment, in accordance with the rules. That is – they are paying attention – to damage directly caused by adverse weather phenomena between 25.12.2015 and 15.02.2016, Mr. Tellado, is here in the letter that you just cited and that is the main charge that the Board is not considering addressing the damage we are demanding today. If you read our initiative, you'll see that we're asking not only for collaboration for the municipalities, but also for help for people affected by the crowded housing, property, in their commercial administration. The People's Party – you have to better review what they did in the opposition – in 2006: "Last October 22nd the floods caused by rain caused a significant number of damage both in infrastructure and public utility goods, as well as in housing in private goods. Given the magnitude of the facts and their consequences, and within the constitutional principle of solidarity, public authorities should seek palliative measures," and they demanded that the Council of Galicia urgently put in place measures. In 2007, the vice-president of this Parliament complained that the government's aid, which was direct aid for damage, was late and insufficient. And you present today a amendment to which he says that the Galician Board will not put any kind of help to the people affected, and that its only commitment, in any case, is to help the municipalities in repairing damage in infrastructure. That's not what we're talking about on our initiative. We're talking about you having to go much further, as were, in other cases, the governments that were in Galician Union, and even as the Galician Union did in 2002, before flooding, for example, in the case of the Navy, where if there was a decree of specific aid to cover the damage caused in housing, the damage caused in the tourism sector or in the trade sector. So we today are claiming is exactly the same as we did in the past. And if it's not done for these councils, you'll have to explain why, why is there a different treatment for citizens in function not well known what circumstances or reasons for ideological cutting? because I suppose that's what you're saying. We, we're gonna make him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u143	...–Finished, Mr President – a very clear proposal. We accept all the amendments as added, because if you say that they are in favour of helping the Union, why are they going to vote against them in Parliament? So all the amendments that all the groups present to us are acceptable as addendum, because that's what I would show you all and we all want you to help alleviate the damage caused by the floods. If you vote against it, you'll know why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Next proposal is not law. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García and Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, on the demand to be made by the Council of Galicia to the Central Government in relation to the access of the Greek Members to the prisons, as well as to the internal persons in them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u145	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u146	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u147	Thank you, President. On 17 March, Esculca asked the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture to include the Teixeiro prison centre, one of two macro-carceres in Greek territory in the programme which the Committee will carry out in its next visit to the Spanish State, scheduled for this year. Accompanying your application, Esculca sent the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture a report on the situation of ill-treatment and torture inside the prison and which were the subject of a complaint before the courts. The storyteller believes it is difficult to investigate complaints of torture and ill-treatment by the competent judicial bodies. He also pointed out that the People's Valedor never proceeded to ascertain the basis of the facts reported, nor examined individually each case, nor to open a wider investigation to determine what happens in the criminal case. Listen contacted the total absence of treatment activities in module 15, as well as the lack of physical and mental health follow-up of internal people. From November 4th, when the mattress fire occurred in module 15 the repression was repeated. So on the same November 4th, and despite some inmates having symptoms of smoke intoxication, the staff of the service denied them medical care. In module 15 there is no scheduled activity, although the individualized treatment program only collects as treatment lines normalization of conduct and positive occupation of time in prison. During the night accounts are made in which they are forced to stand in the cell; this one sometimes repeats itself three times in a night. This situation, from the point of view of fundamental rights, attacks on dignity, life and physical integrity, attacks on the rehabilitating character of punishment. People trapped in closed regimes, who spend twenty-one hours a day in the cell without any kind of activity programming, which means a situation of execution of the penalty is contrary to the principle of humanity. It's a treatment of prison sentences that exacerbates and recharges with physical and psychological torture that nothing has to do with the role that prison institutions should have. These acts convert prisons, which should be centers of insertion, into centers of revenge, humiliation and personal degradation. Internal people can't be treated in prison institutions worse than rats, with poor food, refusing medication, denying their personal relationship. Human beings are social beings, you can't have a person twenty-one hours isolated from the world. That's torture, and Galicia has been subjected to torture, which has been denounced on several occasions by this group. But we could also talk about not only the Teixeiro prison, but also the Lama prison. In March 2015, in the first grade 14 module of the Lama prison centre, the Borja prisoner was hanged. He was actively involved in the prison campaign equal to torture, so he was moved on several occasions. According to people approaching Borja, the official version of hanging does not correspond to the prisoner's good self-esteem, so they rule out the possibility of suicide. In April 2015, Lama also died, supposedly also in a suicide by hanging, Eugenio, but his family also maintains suspicions that it wasn't really suicide. And also in April 2015 an inmate from the Lama prison ended twenty-four days of hunger strike after his entry to the Hospital in Pontevedra for risk of death. Inmate JGC denounced the inefficiencies and inefficiencies in the prison, the arbitraryness in removing permits and the coercion and ill-treatment suffered by the imprisoned population. All the opposition parliamentary groups have repeatedly called for access to various prisons located in the territory of Galicia, as well as for communication with some of the people who have been admitted to it. Despite our condition as representatives of the Greek people, the visit to the penitentiary institution has always been denied, as well as the contact with the internal people. Among the arguments raised by Penitentiary Institutions to support the ban on visiting the Welsh prisons to Members and Members of this House who so requested was that these centres are already visited by Congress Members and Senators when they so requested. However, Congress Members themselves say that they are also denied access to prisons with similar arguments. Internally claims that Galicia has not transferred its powers in prison matters, so members of the autonomous chambers lack prerogatives to monitor a state activity. For the same reason, it states that the valdories of the people of the autonomous communities lack powers. What is incredible, as far as this statement of Penitentiary Institutions is concerned, is that the Council of Galicia had remained unsatisfied. And you're saying that in what happens on the territory of Galicia, where it affects the lives of people who are on the territory of Galicia, where it affects fundamental rights, the human rights of people living on the territory of Greece, whether free or in prison institutions, the Union has nothing to do. And Junta accepts it, it's all right to accept it. I said it more than once: the feeling is that you don't want to rule, you just want to manage what you rule in Madrid. They're real managers, but of course they're not rulers. At the plenary session on 7 and 8 May 2015, this House unanimously approved requesting from the Government of the State the transfer of health skills to prisons located in Galicia, on an initiative presented by the Joint Group. But Junta has done nothing, and we see it now in relation to the patients with hepatitis C, who are still fighting with the government of the state who has to take care of these patients. A true hypocrisy, a provocation of hypocrisy, propaganda, which has not led anywhere and that people trapped in Galicia continue to suffer this abandonment of the Greek institution, but also of the state. So last Friday we could read in the press that several associations reported ill-treatment and torture in the Greek prisons, especially in Lama and Teixeiro. They demand a prison duty to combat impunity for the fundamental rights of the imprisoned population. Representatives of Esculca and Lawyer New Vigo also refer to deaths in strange circumstances that Penitentiary Institutions deal with suicides or accident qualifications, and the difficulties in being able to investigate from outside. So, for example, the defense of the imprisoned person does not have access to copies of the recordings of the cameras installed in the isolation modules, or cases in which the prison directions set up obstacles for lawyers to meet with their clients. They also report deficiencies in heating, food and healthcare within the Greek prisons, as well as overcrowding of centres, resulting in the delay of the grade revision resolutions with a delay of up to one year, becoming true penitentiary chains that are adding themselves and that are dilating to the penitentiary review. In ten years, 20 complaints have been filed for ill-treatment in Welsh prisons, all of which have been filed, and only in one case has the judge called for the personnel involved. In the face of these prohibitions, also suffered by members of international organizations and even by the Committee on the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe, we can say that the Government of the State has a serious problem of transparency in relation to detention and detention facilities that make the worst suspect. In view of the fact that this procedure by the penitentiary institutions violates both the rights of persons detained in prison institutions and the rights of Members and Members of this House, we urge the Government to demand that it abandon this darkist attitude, lack of transparency, and transfer to the Penitentiary Institutions the obligation to facilitate access by Members of this House to both the institutions and the internal people in it. It can't be that when, from this House – and to me personally – I was asked to visit the prison, he refused; if he asked for an interview with an inmate, he refused. He says it's the intern who has to ask for it. The inmates proceed to request this interview with me, and Penitentiary Institutions transfer it to Zamora. That's torture, and that certainly can't be endorsed by this House. So I hope that the People's Party will vote in favour this time, but may it be to comply, not to be, as always, to be well in an election year. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u149	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I wanted to begin, even if it is obvious, by saying that people who are incarcerated in prisons, whether in pre-trial detention or serving a sentence, have no other limitation of their fundamental rights or any other right than the deprivation of liberty itself which implies their detention, or the accessories that the judge or the court in their case could impose on them in their own judgment, but which, in any case, are expressed, are included in the sentence and that they cannot affect any other fundamental right that is not the deprivation of liberty or the right of passive or active suffrage. I therefore believe that this is the first consideration that we should take into account both Members and Members when we address this kind of debate. Because, in fact, as Mrs Martínez explained in her speech, it has already been the subject of debate on several occasions, at least in the Commission 1st during this legislation, both the situation affecting repeated complaints by inmates, repeated complaints by human rights organizations and the rights of the arrested persons and the lawyers themselves of the persons concerned, various situations that we could consider as clearly affecting not only the fundamental rights of the prisoners, of the arrested persons, which also violate all the law on prison law of the Spanish State and which violate a fundamental issue set out in the Spanish Constitution, and which is that in the Spanish State the sentences deprived of liberty do not only have a punitive condition, but, in essence, have a rehabilitation, rehabilitation and reintegration function of persons arrested in society, with full guarantees of the ability to live together. Therefore, in this situation which we have repeatedly denounced in this Parliament, not only does it not guarantee the right that people are trapped in an identical health benefit to the rest of the people. There are even complaints from the Teixeiro prison of persons with a psychiatric history and with a psychiatric diagnosis or any other type who do not have adequate follow-up and who are not even allowed to consult for medical follow-up. There are complaints... Mrs. Martínez said, she was called torture, in Guantanamo we called sensory deprivation torture. That a person should be kept in custody, closed for twenty-one hours, constantly awake at night, is a form of sensory deprivation and can therefore be considered a form of torture. And there are complaints about Teixeiro prison. That a person who is in a public institution whose purpose is to re-education is to keep him shut, isolated, for twenty-one hours without doing any kind of activity, without social workers and prison educators and educators doing any sort of follow-up, no conduct of activities leading to the fulfilment of the fundamental objective that he is entering that prison center, is a flagrant violation of the lawfulness of the Spanish state. And this has been denounced primarily in connection with Teixeiro prison, the Lama prison, but there are also at least eleven complaints filed by persons, by prisoners and their lawyers, referring to Bonxe prison. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we, from the Galego Nationalist Block, consider that, when something happens in such a repeated way and - let us say - so continuous in time, look elsewhere, trying to hide reality not only is of no use but what it is only to magnify the feeling of violation of rights that we are denouncing parliamentary groups. That is why it seems regrettable to this group that, in the first instance, the first Member to whom it was forbidden to go to prison was Mrs Acuña and then all the Members or Members we have tried to do the same from this Parliament. It seems to us that those who have nothing to hide should not put any kind of impediment so that the people we represent the people of Greece and the people we are here also to watch because all the Greeks and Greeks, if they are all the people who live in Galicia, even if they are inside a prison, if they respect their rights as citizens, all those...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u150	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u151	...of those who are not deprived by sentence. We tabled an amendment, with which we would like to add to Mrs Martínez's proposal that the Galician Union must enforce not only the rights of Members, but that of the German Government itself with regard to its citizens and therefore must also join this request for an institutional visit by the Galician Union and the parliamentary groups to this prison. Because for a government of the state that has no scruple in the case of hepatitis C, through Parliamentary Institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u152	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u153	...to say that it has to be Galician who pays treatment to inmates in the Greek prisons, what's the problem so that the Greek Government and the Greek Members can go there to check if it's only being met with hepatitis C treatment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u155	So, we believe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u157	...that the People's Party should vote in favour of this initiative and also of the amendment tabled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Paz, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u159	...by the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u160	Thank you. Alternative Parliamentary Group of Left Galeg. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u161	Well, good morning to all and all. Alternative Galga de Lefta will support this initiative, because in fact we feel represented by it, because all parliamentary groups of the opposition, throughout this legislation, we make several requests on different occasions, through different initiatives, to allow the visit of Members and Members to the prison centres in Galicia, mainly to the Teixeiro macrocarcere. In recent times even a Welsh lady, through En Marea, has also received the rejection. I mean, no matter where that initiative seems to be. That's why we have to put an institutional and unanimous political pressure on us. The Esculca Association, Observatory for the Defence of Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the Coordinator for Prevention and Defence against Torture, as the spokesman for the Mixto said, was addressed on 17 March to the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment to include Galicia in the programme of visits which the said Committee carries out in the Spanish State. Darkness and opacity seem to be the transparency policy used on the right, both in the state and in Galicia. And, in fact, we can not only talk about human rights violations within prisons, but also, through regressive regulations, such as Mordaza Law, human rights and citizenship violations if they occur outside prisons, to perpetuate them in prisons. The situation in the Greek macro-carceres like Teixeiro deserves the greatest political work to verify on-site complaints of ill-treatment, of torture, of injuries, even of death, which weighs on this prison and, for example, on A Lama. It is necessary to verify the complaints made by Esculca, complaints that are supported by direct knowledge and reliable documentation that comes from the very persons deprived of liberty and the work they do, hard work despite all the limitations that they are placed on them. Prisons have to perform a repairing function, a rehabilitation function, reintegrating into society, but it can't be that what people have is an acceleration of degradation and of violating human dignity, as it is proceeding today. A prison that is ready for 1,008 squares accommodates 1,800 people. That's why, only for that reason, because of that saturation, it's clear that you're not fulfilling a lot of aspects that would make you pale what we call human condition. For example, among the various complaints that come to Esculca, there are living conditions inside the penitentiary center, terrible living conditions, logical if we understand the oversaturation and absolute discomfort that the institutions that govern to improve the so-called habitability. Access to medical care for chronic illnesses is inadequate or even sometimes ineffective, insufficient or non-existent, as happened here with the work to be done – and it has already been said – with regard to hepatitis C virus disease. We have documented cases of deaths, and it is not only difficult to deliver autopsy results to the family, as Morocco is curiously doing with autopsys for Saharan people. We seem to learn or maintain the same policies in that regard. There are even complaints from officials about and access to health conditions. There's a lack of food. The situation in module 15 has already been discussed. As you've already commented, twenty-one hours a day without any kind of activity, twenty-one hours a day; that's torture, no other name; one person can totally go crazy, it can go crazy. And this is inescapable, of course, in democracy. I mean, being in prison doesn't mean being totally subjected to degrading and inhuman treatment. To be in prison means to repair, re-integrate, so that we can return to society in the best possible conditions and make a decent life. That's what must be the passage through prison and not find the worst of the human condition. The night counting – it's said – until three times a night, waking up, preventing sleep. Finally, they are permanent, permanent. They even appear – it is something anecdotic, or not, the way to proceed – confidential data from people in prison in the media of Galicia. For example, in A Voice of Galicia, in a report, there were data that can only be known through what comes to official staff. That's insubstantial, his intimacy is invulnerable. Finally, by our band we will support this initiative, because we hope to turn it around, to visit on site, to be able to curb what is happening and to be able to verify, at least, that the People's Party will best tell us that it is a lie that happens, in fact, that Schools and associations that watch for the rights of prisoners are wrong. At least let us check this out. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u163	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. My colleague Carmen Acuña and Patricia Vilán and the group as such have sued both in the Bureau of Commission 1st, in the Bureau of Commission 5th, in the Bureau of Parliament itself, we have recorded writings where we ask that representatives of the people – we are not talking about anyone, citizens/citizens who have been elected by other citizens to represent them in this House – may have access to visit prisons, and I believe that even as a good measure to avoid all these speculations. Because of course, when you close a door and they're continually telling you that behind that door very strange things happen, you end up magnifying what is perhaps much less, and they prevent you even that you personally notice a reality, that may be true or not, but that if you don't check it – and the people who want to test it are legitimized by the representation they hold – because what is happening is happening. What do you tell us after the Bureau of Parliament, Mrs Rojo, had sent the government delegate and this one to the penitentiary institutions and told us about the penitentiary institutions? That is the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions for activity, which is carried out with full submission to the laws and the legal system. But what told you what happened? And this is an explanation why? If no one questions it, at least our group assumes that the state respects the law, they are subject to the law. Or isn't it true? And tell us more: tell us that the only legitimized are the Members and Senators of the Courts. Look, I think there is something called institutional cooperation, which is called respect, which is even called assumption of certain values as normal, such as democratic practice. The State is not only the Government of Madrid and the institutions that depend on the central State. Some fellow man who's listening to me in my group may well cross, because I went by being almost Jacobine, isn't it? But some fame I have. It's just that I think that being a Greek, being in Galicia and representing the Greek people in this House is to be Spanish, and I don't think we belong to a nation, we are that nation – it's my conception, I'm probably wrong. And, therefore, if I, the representative of the people, want to know a reality that develops in Greek territory, in a prison, although it depends on the state, what's the problem? If, in addition, for example, this competition is transferred to Catalonia, Catalans have been exercising it since the 1980s and nothing happens, the pillars of the state do not fall. If, moreover, as has already been said here, it seems that it will now be authorized that prisoners with hepatitis C may receive treatment in the hospital pharmacy, and of course, the State, so that the Autonomous Community sends treatment seems to be that it is State, I do not know, if it paid the State, but it seems that Mr. Montoro, who is so diligent not to pay or even to put duties on the municipalities and whatever is put to death, is not so diligent to pay the health bill that the Autonomous Community of the prisoners has, that they are competent to the State. What is the problem with cooperation, where Members go? And do it right, eh! I tell you not to go discover the dirty rags, as if you've insinuated here. I believe that if I have nothing to hide and in loyal institutional cooperation, what is the problem where Members and Members of this House are going to visit a prison? Let us see, if it turns out that autonomous communities are going to the State delegations, Europe, for example, to many bodies. If it turns out that even the State itself has a kind of special ambassador abroad to visit Spanish prisoners in prisons around the world, and we are a state of what we must feel proud of, of the few who do so, and who cares for our people in prisons abroad, what is the problem? I'm something I don't understand, honestly. And in that sense, not in other things that have been said here, than we disagree with, because I think they are also based on this obscurantism that exists, because we do not want to enter into transparency, because we are going to support this initiative, but we are going to support it in that loyal cooperation between all state institutions must be part of the usual practice...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u164	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u165	...and there is nothing wrong with why Members of this House are going to visit an institution that is in Greek territory and for the tax of the Greeks to advance the payment of their health and, as I said before, the state sometimes pays quite late. By the way, with the rules of Montoro, he should be punished. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Mrs. Soneira, we also believe in loyal institutional collaboration, and I believe that the tone of your intervention we can actually maintain, but I don't think that the previous interventions, which you could hear just like me, had that same intention as you show, but what we've heard here are unacceptable insinuations in a rule of law. So the good faith that you express in your intervention by the Socialist Party is not shared by the rest of the opposition groups, and you can see it. The prison administration has clearly defined its purposes in Article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution and in Article 1 of the General Organic Prison Law, signaling as its main purposes the re-education, social reintegration of those sentenced to sentences and criminal measures deprived of liberty, the retention and custody of detainees, prisoners and prisoners and prisoners, and the assistance and assistance of prisoners and released persons. As you know, prison centres located in Galicia directly depend on the General Secretariat of Prison Institutions, the Ministry of the Interior, and therefore do not depend on either the Council of Galicia or this Parliament, which has no competence over centres that depend on the State and not on the Autonomous Community. And, therefore, we understand that this is not the forum to raise this debate that you want to bring to this plenary. We are aware that national Members and senators from different parties have on several occasions requested visits to Galician prisons and that have been attended. So we have to deny these accusations of obscurantism that have been overturned here, and we believe that in a very irresponsible way. Penitentiary institutions are the first institution interested in assuming and guaranteeing the safeguarding of the rights of internal persons, and, for this purpose, there are procedures governing these rights, procedures of perfectly regulated complaints. The functioning of prisons in our country supports the principle of legality, the preservation of the fundamental rights of the intern, and the subjecting of the judicial controls of the prison activity, which is their responsibility, as you know, not to the legislative chambers, but to the judges of prison surveillance. Therefore, prison activity is the responsibility of the State, and, in addition, the centres are visited by Members, national senators when they request it, and, in any case, they are subject to the control of prison guards...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u168	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u169	...that guarantee the constitutional rights of all interns. You must know that a penitentiary isn't a museum. We believe that it is not a place to make politics, and therefore the claims that some groups have in that sense we do not share them in any case. You speak quite frivolously about torture and ill-treatment in prisons. I believe that here there have been insinuations that are completely intolerable and that can only be done by abusing parliamentary inviolability, that everyone here is watching us; on the contrary, no one could say what has been said here, with this frivolity, because it is clearly against the dignity of prison officials and staff at the service of prison guards. We certainly do not share that political irresponsibility of some groups. I thank the Socialist Party for not falling into that temptation, and therefore, from the People's Group, we believe that with its words they demonstrate total ignorance about the important work of prison officials and non-governmental organizations working in prisons for the reintegration of prisoners. You call it abusers to officials responsible for guarding, protecting and safeguarding the living conditions of inmates in our prisons, officials who in many cases play their lives on many occasions and who apply legally established protocols. You condemn on the basis of complaints that say they have arrived, and I have to say that, in order not to prejudge anything, you say enough. I believe that the assistance of national Members and senators is allowed when they request it, and therefore this opacity is not true. We believe that the German Parliament is not competent to monitor a state-dependent centre, and we certainly believe that more respect should be given to the work of prison officials and staff in the service of prison guards. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u170	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Martínez. Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u171	Well, first, I want to start by thanking the opposition groups for their support, lamenting the attitude of the People's Party, which understands prisons as a place where to retain people, simply without applying any reintegration procedure, which does not understand that twenty-one hours a day of isolation without activity is torture. I'm not implying, I'm saying: it's torture. In the Greek prisons, torturing the inner people, it's a statement. And the worst thing is that you're willing by the State Government and the Greek Government, who have no interest in checking the situation, and, if you are truthful about that situation, immediately put the means for prisons to be places of reintegration for people, because anyone who suffers torture and ill-treatment in prison is in an attitude against the system, because the system does not accept it, the system does not accept it, and therefore the situation is not corrected. I think the German Government should be the most interested in showing that in Galicia human rights are fulfilled inside and outside the prisons, inside and outside the institutions. There are even reports of patients, of internal people in prison institutions who don't take themselves to the hospital to consult doctors specialists, bringing them, for example, that they don't have a car; absurd, totally absurd things. But, in reply to Mr Tellado, who never disappoints, of course, Mr Tellado, the abusers are not the officials; [...] in the State and Galicia, which allows, consents and prevents torture in the prisons of Greece and in the prisons of the State. [[Laughter]] [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u172	The People's Party is not abusive. This expression is removed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u173	The prison center, Mr. Tellado, is not a museum. That simple insinuation leaves it to you at the level you deserve. A prison center is something very serious, where the Government should be involved in getting people out of there to get inserted and leave with the future in a free life, not to punish them eternally. Because you're the culprits, because you're going to vote now, and you're going to push the button that won't be checked for torture in the yellow prisons, just as you voted that you wouldn't be given medication to the sick in hepatitis C, so you're responsible for what happens every time you press that button. I will certainly support the amendment of the BNG, because I understand that I would be the vice president most interested in claiming, on behalf of the Greek Government, those visits to that verification of the situation of torture and ill-treatment in the Greek prisons. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are the most interested in this non-law proposition going ahead, since you already have a lot of members in prisons and you will have more. So they vote in favour, because it benefits you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u174	Mrs. Martínez, the expression... I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, Mr. Trenor, sorry. I ask you to remove that expression; if you don't, I'll take it away and I'll have to call it in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u175	If you want to remove it, you have the power; I do not withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u176	No, no, I'm asking you if you want to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u177	No, I'm not taking her away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u178	You have a call to order. He's retired and he's got a call in order. We continue. [[Murmurs.]] That's right. I'm sorry. No, no, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. There are things that cannot be tolerated. That's it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u179	We continue with the following non-legislation proposal, which is from the People's Parliamentary Group. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the launch by the Galician Union in 2016 of a plan by the Greek to pay attention to the stroke
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u180	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u181	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u182	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The Popular Parliamentary Group today brings to this plenary an initiative in relation to the treatment of a disease of great prevalence, with a significant mortality and very incapacitating consequences. We're talking about the stroke. With that name one knows a sudden, acute disorder of circulation in a part of the brain tissue. The affected region no longer performs its functions, with very varied, serious and incapacitating symptoms. It may be by obstruction of an artery – and we speak of ischemic stroke – or by rupture of the artery – and we speak of hemorrhage. About 85% are of the first type, and 15% of the second type, which is very important to evaluate the treatments that I'm going to talk about later. We have to think, far from political confrontations, that stroke is a personal tragedy for those who suffer it, but it also represents a real drama for family unity. No one can be prepared, because it's never expected to happen. The consequences of the acute stroke will depend on the type, location, extent of injury and possible complications secondary to the initial event. According to where he sits, hemiplexy may appear, which is the paralysis of the middle body, difficulty speaking, loss of sensitivity or strength, instability, loss of vision, and many other less frequent clinical paintings. To get adequate attention and a better prognosis, the most important thing is to recognize the stroke and consider it a time-dependent medical emergency; that is, to transfer the patient to the hospital prepared for his attention as soon as possible. That would not be possible without the improvement and coordination of each of the care chain processes, depending on population dispersion and concentration of assistance resources. The extraordinary progress made in coordinating extra-hospital emergencies in Galicia, with the creation of the 061 service and the continuing care points, with an increasingly expert staffing, and important material supplies, have been a key piece in patient access to the possibilities of diagnosis and treatment unthinkable not many years ago. The professor of Neurology at the University of Santiago de Compostela expressed, in an interview these days in the press, that the stroke wasn't much of an intratable disease. A patient arrived at the hospital and was practically cared for with basic support and left to his own evolution. Then thrombolisis appeared, meant a qualitative change and an important improvement for patients, because 40% responded to this treatment, and then interventionism similar to cardiac catheterization, which means 10% more improvement in patients who do not respond to thrombolisis. It's happened that there's nothing to do to make 60 percent of the patients who arrive within a short period of time benefit from treatment. Today the stroke is a treatable medical emergency, and not long ago it was a disgrace. Thrombolysis dissolves the thrombus during the first four and a half hours with the onset of symptoms, being much more effective as before it is given. Unfortunately, the delay in the arrival of patients to hospitals makes this treatment reach only 5% of the sick throughout the state. There are patients who cannot do or receive fibrinolysis, but if they can benefit from more aggressive strategies: interventionism known as acute rescue or endovascular treatment; a catheter is inserted through an artery; it is navigated through blood vessels by breaking brain thrombs and extracting them. It's a proven efficiency technique, which will undoubtedly change all the approaches strategies of the stroke. This technique does not replace fibrinolysis, but can be complementary to those in which recalibration is not achieved. That's why networking is very important, even among different autonomous communities. But that coordination of the extra-hospital emergencies we were talking about one moment now requires improvements and updates in a consensual way. Is it useful to have some technical means, trained staff and reference units, if the patient with cardiovascular risk factors presenting the symptoms is not able to recognize them and call 061 to be transferred and treated? No, ladies, it's no use. A lot of health education is needed, with campaigns by public administrations, and with the collaboration of all professionals, and mainly primary care professionals. The high number of strokes in the nighttime, which cannot be recognized by the patient himself or his family members because he/she does not perceive it, is by itself a serious problem for the prognosis of these patients, in which he/she loses a very important time for his/her treatment, with the result of death or serious sequelae in many cases. The stroke is a public health problem of first magnitude. Dr. Gallego, of the Spanish Society of Neurology, says that, although he has qualified the stroke of a preventable and treatable catastrophe, there seems to be a tendency for the words "catastrophe" to make him forget that one can prevent and treat. In Spain about 120,000 people per year will suffer a stroke, consuming between 3 and 4% of total health expenses. It is the second cause of death globally, the first among women, and also the first cause of dependence on adults, estimated that 44% of those who survive have some degree of functional dependence. There's a deceased in Spain for stroke every 15 minutes. With demographic forecasts, which hope for very important growth of our largest ones, and considering that three out of every four cases occur in over 65 years, it is to predict a large increase in their incidence and prevalence over the next few years. It is also true that there is a tendency to decrease mortality, related to improvements in the above-mentioned treatments and the best detection and control of cardiovascular risk factors, which, as you all know, are diabetes, hypertension, cholesterol, obesity and smoking, as a major factor. But as a matter of fact, it must be remembered that stroke can appear at any age, with 10% cases under 55, increasing in recent years these paintings in young people. This false belief may cause symptoms of stroke not to be recognized, either by the patient or relatives, thinking that there are no cases at those ages. This error may lead to delays in the treatment of unpredictable consequences. In short, the stroke is an emergency, success depends on the rapidity and detection of disease and contact with emergencies. It is therefore necessary to establish a program to ensure a system of selection and urgent transfer of these patients. This plan should homogenise the attention of cases of a stroke, providing adequate health care, with the utmost safety to people suffering from stroke, as soon as possible and fairly for the entire citizenship of Galicia. Early attention will be given to reducing secondary sequelae to VAC. Within the plan for care of the stroke, the Code stroke program will be included, which is a telemedicine project that will allow anyone suspected of stroke found in a comarcal hospital to be attended by a neurology specialist of the reference stroke units. Thus, after being evaluated, it will address the most appropriate resource, depending on the situation in which the patient is found, or will provide the treatment of thrombosis directly in that same hospital. The development of what was the Innova Health Project, Medical Image Center, will allow radiological images to be available in real time, with high quality, for all professionals in the Galician Health Service with competences about these images, regardless of where they are generated. Thus, a neurologist of physical presence at any center will greatly axillize diagnosis and treatment. He was piloted from Santiago de Compostela, in the hospital, with the hospitals of Salnés and O Barbana in the 10th and 11th years, and with the training of specialists under the coordination of the sad ending Doctor Blanco, whom we want to remember today from this group for the magnificent work carried out in this field. For this reason, we present this initiative: "The Galician Parliament calls on the Galician Union to put in place, in this exercise 2016, the plan for the care of the stroke, which homogenizes attention in cases of a stroke, providing adequate health care, with the utmost safety, to people suffering from a stroke, as soon as possible and in an equitable manner for the whole of the citizenship of Greece." Waiting for the support of the groups, nothing more, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u183	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u184	Thank you, President. Mr. Centeno, I suppose this stroke-care plan will also look at the imprisoned population. Well, this PP GNP is unclear as to the resolution text, because they don't specify the measures they're going to take. It also fails to be an incomplete plan, which only envisages actions for the moment of stroke, but forgets the preventive and palliative measures concerning this terrible disease. According to study estimates Prev-ictus, more than 21% of the population over 60 years of age in the state, almost 2 million people, are at high risk of having a stroke in the next ten years, and, having completed 55, each lived decade doubles the risk of stroke, reaching 75% of the cases in people over 65. If cases of stroke in the coming decades increase in Galicia, with the state's oldest population, our country faces a serious problem of demographic, health and social impact. That's why I also think it is so important for a plan to consider preventive measures, because stroke can be prevented. Some risk factors, such as smoking, excessive alcohol consumption, high blood pressure, cholesterol levels, diabetes, obesity, sedentary life, and inadequate diets can be eliminated or reduced with good follow-up from primary care. That's the first point of the amendment I make and I hope it will be accepted by you. It is also necessary – and here I refer to the second point of the amendment – that the plan contemplates measures for the care of patients who have already suffered the stroke and who are left with sequelae. 60% of the people who have experienced this problem cannot rely on themselves, because of the disabled sequelae that leaves them: paralysis, balance problems, speech disorders, cognitive deficits, etc. In addition, people affected by a stroke are at high risk of falling within the next three months. According to data from the Impact study, less than a third of patients with stroke have controlled risk factors. The stroke not only impacts – as you well said – on the patient's life in terms of functional disability and reduction in their quality of life, because it also affects the family greatly, when they need permanent care. Of the patients admitted to a hospital who need care, 52.5% are dependent on basic activities in daily life, and in 60% of the cases the caregiver figure is a woman, about 50 years old. That's why I think this LNP should be considered and used to develop the plan and include appropriate mechanisms and resources to incorporate occupational therapy, speech therapy and high-performance physiotherapy into the rehabilitation of those people affected by stroke sequelae. And waiting for them to accept my amendment, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u185	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u186	Good morning. Indeed, in Galicia the stroke because it is acute stroke disease, it is a pathology that has enormous prevalence – we can repeat data: the first cause of death in women, the second in men – and people who survive many of them because they are followed by invalidating, both motors and cognitive, it is translated into dependence – on motor dependence, on cognitive dependence – and it is the first cause of permanent disability because in adults. And the calculation is that in Galicia there may be about 50,000 people with sequelae derived from a stroke, right? And the data also tell us that they're about 5,000 people affected in Galicia every year. I mean, we're in the face of a pathology that should require attention from health officials. You should have that attention, first, as far as prevention is concerned. It's obvious that this pathology treated, that is, especially by acting in prevention, can avoid many of these episodes, life habits. And above all primary care, that is, primary care endowed with the ability to develop the actions needed for that health care; a primary care that the People's Party, far from dotal, has done was to attract all kinds of resources, with which the first phase of prevention obviously is not acting in the same way. Then, when the episode is over, it's fundamental to speed, of course, agile attention and as quickly as possible. Indeed, at this moment, because with the technique of intraarterial thrombolysis, this performance between the first three and four hours since the episode occurs is fundamental to its success. But what's the reality? That, despite being the stroke such a prevalent pathology in Galicia, Galicia that it has an increasingly aging population; that the older age, the more affected; that three out of four cases actually occur in over 65 years, because the serious is that no action has been taken to make us in a situation far different from what we are. And Galicia is not complying with the World Health Organization's guidelines on care, about the need to have one stroke unit per 100,000 inhabitants -- that's the indication the World Health Organization is making -- to have at least 3 neurologists per 100,000 inhabitants, and in Galicia we have 1.4 per 100,000 inhabitants, in Galicia there are not enough 20% of people who have access to one stroke unit. Well in front of this situation, of course, at the BNG we regret once again that Sergas has introduced the stroke into the Sergas 2011-2014 Strategy, it has been introduced into the priority plan, but all of this has not been translated into action, and one proof is that today they come here with an initiative demanding these actions. That today there is only the unit of stroke in the CHUS, indeed, that with this telematic action there is such action at the hospital of Salnès and the hospital of Barbanza and theoretically an incipient unit at the new hospital of Vigo – which we are now leaving there in an incipient unit. In October 2005 we dealt with this issue in Commission 5th and at that time what was the spokesperson for health and at this moment president of this Parliament, Mr. Santalices, said that he was in agreement with the philosophy but that he was going to vote against, because the budgets had to wait because he was already in progress, and he also said so that "we will announce that we will return on the subject." And, indeed, it comes back on the subject and now on an almost electoral campaign. Because the budgets came and the stroke did not appear in the budgets, there was not a single mention of the stroke in the budgets. What is it is that the current councillor has returned to this Parliament to tell us about the Strategy Sergas 2016-2020 and has again talked about the stroke. And then what he said was, "The strategic line 3 is to guide the delivery structure of the service to patients' needs and attention to chronicity. We're within this strategic line of the Welsh Plan of attention to stroke, Code of stroke. This ictus code is going to change a very important part of the brain pathology we have right now. What was hemodynamics 15 or 20 years ago is going to be the new activity. Now we're gonna be active, we're gonna try, I'm gonna figure it out. That's what the councilman said. There's nothing here in this Parliament. And we find again that the People's Party comes to sue here, comes with an initiative where it demands something that the Government already, through its advisors and advisors, has promised and has not acted. And the truth is, it seems to us like an unacceptable coat of hair...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u188	...not because the issue is not important – that is –, not because there is no action – that must be done –. What we don't think of receiving is that they come here and don't do them; that's what we don't think of receiving. That's why we tabled an amendment, BNG submits an amendment where we demand that the Galician Parliament urge the Galician Union to, before this legislation is over, provide the public health system with at least one stroke unit for each health area, with both technical and human resources. I mean, they do it, they do it at once, not that they're in the statement of intentions. We must move from the statement of intent to action. And the performance is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u189	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u190	...real staffing in the areas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u192	...the health of our country, and resources and professionals, because the only way to fight and act so that the stroke is not an epidemic in our society is to act, not come here to make propaganda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u194	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that you are incorrigible, come back with another initiative of advertising, propaganda and bombing in this – desperate – electoral campaign that you have started. I wonder – don't get nervous, calm – how at this point you still don't have clear that neither is ethical, nor is it moral, nor is it legal to use public money, government resources and this House to finance and promote the campaigns of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] That's good! It's all right with appearances, autobombs and non-law bluf proposals! Or maybe they think that Greek citizenship is stupid? Do you really believe that in people? Look, on 22 October, indeed, I myself brought to the Health Commission a non-legislative proposal asking for a proper treatment for this pathology so frequent, so deadly and so incapacitating, that, in addition, when it is treated soon and well, it has less consequences and leaves less sequelae. But the People's Party at that time – which was not yet campaigning – voted against; and indeed, Mrs Prado, with a pilgrim argument. They voted 'no' because, in total, the Counsellor would already announce it in the next budget debate; then, there was no point in voting in favour, and, despite indeed, Mr. honourable Member, that he did nothing that Dr. Miguel Blanco had died. In that debate, I remembered that it would be much more interesting to have adopted that initiative than to devote a street or a square to it. But today, today that the People's Party believes it needs to cover up the deaths of hepatitis and advertise itself -- yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, you need that -- feel that you need it -- and advertise yourself in the vicinity of the election, they're taking the stroke again, but this time down. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well it turns out that your proposal is far less ambitious than the announcement that you once did the counsellor. And that, ladies and gentlemen, shows two things: one, that the People's Party cares about a curse – and I'm going to use this term so colloquial –, a curse the stroke and its consequences, and two, that the People's Party thinks this House is in the service of the Government and the Government in the service of the Party's interests. Indeed, Mr. Deputy – and not in the spirit of having a clinical session – the stroke, the stroke, the stroke, is the clinical picture derived from the sudden interruption of blood flow in a part of the brain, and that can be caused by an ischemia or hemorrhage. It's such a frequent pathology that 78% – and this is very serious – of the cases of acquired brain damage are caused by an stroke. So and to be able to treat that pathology in a way, that is, soon and well, neurologists and neurologists, Welsh neurology, have been calling for the creation of stroke units and the stroke code throughout the territory of Sergas – the White Doctor too – something similar to the fact of myocardial infarction. But in spite of that, indeed, we only count in Galicia with one unit, here in Santiago, although, indeed, the ideal is thought to be a bed in one of those units for every 100,000 inhabitants. Because we can't forget that, in addition, a bed in a stroke unit, because they also reduce mortality by 45%. And that, precisely, ladies and gentlemen, is what we, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are asking for in our initiative: stroke units, those which the People's Party, which was not yet in the campaign, refused. But let's see what you're asking for now, now that you're going with the campaign face: why start this year?: a plan, a plan, a plan to pay attention to the stroke; i.e., nothing, advertising and propaganda. Look, if you really want to do something, accept our amendment, which makes a little of that plan, and I put that plan into practice because with the real things, that is, asking for a proper and necessary budget for that plan and enough stroke units – we don't put in number – enough, to give adequate attention and as soon as possible to the entire citizenship. If they don't accept the budget and the units, we won't support them, because we refuse to use them as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u196	...the stroke in his electoral campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u198	Thank you, President. Well, I'll be quite honest. We have a problem, we have a problem with this and other People's Party initiatives, we've already said it in some plenary, it's over and over again. I understand that moving impulse initiatives from the party that can also rule can be complicated. We can be very understanding, and they have two possibilities: to propose something new that is not being done, to urge the Government to do it and to make a debate here, or to propose something that the Government should be doing and is not doing, thus recognizing that management is either the right or not the right thing. The problem is that the push initiatives that the People's Party brings to the debate – the committee too, but above all lately to the plenary – are neither new nor assume any kind of criticism from the Government, and today, once again, they propose something that should already be done, and not because this spokesman says it, but because, as he has already moved here, he was the current health adviser, Mr. Almuña, who announced it in December when he was talking about the Sergas Strategy, wasn't he? In his appearance he promised an integral stroke management plan, where he was already working on a record, similar to the infarction record, and that there would also be a new stroke care unit in Vigo. This said in December, only four months ago, and what the People's Parliamentary Group is asking for today is even less than it was announced four months ago that it was already being done, with which we have a clear problem. I mean, the advisor promises this and four months later the People's Party promises or asks for something even inferior. What's the matter? Which no longer queues, because even in 2013 you yourself announced that Vigo unit, and three years ago it was already planned for the new Vigo hospital. But you announced it again in 2013, and they said it was going to be a unit that was going to have six beds, and bring it back in December and now bring this back to you, even with the downside proposal. I don't understand anything at all. And it turns out, moreover, that one month ago the Galician board announced to the media that they had the claim, again – because they always do this – to extend the stroke protocol to all hospitals in the public network. Today you bring something that is absolutely the same, at least. And the president, candidate Mr Feijóo, the real health manager of the People's Party – who are never the advisors and advisers who manage our health – met there just a month ago – it was at the end of last month – with the seven managers of the integrated management areas and signed a management agreement where he promised that he would once again extend the ictus protocol. So once again, the People's Party's Parliamentary Group acts again as an institutional propaganda transmitter. In one of the last rounds where I reported this you recognized it, which was very important and that there should be propaganda. Well, they don't cut their hair, do they? And in addition, they appeal or bring an initiative that has a rather obvious worsening of what they have already promised they would do. What matters to you doesn't look like public health, not even really stroke, and what we have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u199	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u200	...an actual assistance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u201	Quiet, there's a lot of murmuring in the room. Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u202	...but the important thing seems to be the headline that can be sold above all, as has already been said here, now that we're on an election campaign. We should talk here about how and in what conditions the stroke is addressed, of course yes, because it is obviously an important problem, the lack of means, the lack of physiotherapists and the lack of means to care for later therapy, rehabilitation, which is not being given in the conditions that should be given, not only for stroke, but for other neurological problems. We should also talk about the lack of physical, material help for these people after the sequelae, and obviously about many other aspects that are important for health care; for example -- it has been said here -- prevention in primary care, that you, in addition, cut off, or how they are, for example, the emergencies that patients receive, or how are the compañeros and compañeros working in 061 and that they have to take immediate care of these patients; we should talk about the overall care. The problem is that you can't, because what you bring here is propaganda, it's impossible to make real debates. I am very sorry, because I would like to make real debates – at one point if you have been given – but frankly, there are few possibilities we have to give them. And we don't even propose amends, because it seems to us once again one of so many, and it's frankly regrettable. Do you want to debate? Well, let's really do it. In the meantime, the only thing we understand is that for the only thing that serves these kinds of initiatives is to give a holder of something they've promised at least two or three times before. And frankly, we're not going to support propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u204	Thank you, President. Madam Now, we're not in the campaign, we have a parliamentary group that works, we have a government that works and a president that works. It's also true that we're not wasted, like you. We've got a candidate, you're still looking for him, aren't you? [[Murmurs.]] Of course, the opposition never likes the government's initiatives, sorry, the majority group, it's not worth anything, is it? Well, yes, yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And of course... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u205	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u206	...you disagree, because, on the one hand, they say we are presenting initiatives that are already being done and, on the other hand, they say we have not done them. But you'll see what they say. With regard to the initiative presented in the year 15 by the Socialist Group, I have to say that it should not be very urgent, because it was registered in the year 13... yes, yes, it was registered in the year 13. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He asked for stroke units to be opened in year 14 and discussed in year 15. Too bad I shouldn't have had the initiative, should I? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, with regard to the amendments, Mr President, we are going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u207	Yes, yes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u208	We will accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. We thought that what complements was already explicit in our initiative, but, well, as a complement... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u209	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u210	...we will accept the amendment of the Socialist Group. We can't accept the other amendments. It seems to me, particularly, that it seems to me a little bit of contempt, for primary care, to put in an amendment to form primary care professionals in the prevention of stroke. If we don't know how to do that at this point, I don't think it makes much sense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u211	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u212	Then, with nothing else to say, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u213	We therefore passed the debate on non-law proposals to your vote. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u214	We begin with the vote of the Non-Law Proposition, of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of the public company Seaga, which carries out work to prevent and combat forest fires. The rapporteur has already said that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Group. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! All right, we just got here, eh! Silence! Man, please, that's it, eh! Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of the public company Seaga, which carries out work to prevent and combat forest fires. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u215	We are now voting on the request by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members, on the request by the Government of Greece to the Government of Spain for the development of a new education law which is consistent with the school communities and with the political forces as a whole. He said he didn't accept any of the amendments. We therefore vote the proposal not of law. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members, on the request by the Government of Greece to the Government of Spain for the development of a new educational law which is consistent with the school communities and with the whole political force. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u216	We are now voting on the Non-Law Proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the development by the Galician Group of the new strategic plan designed for the conservation sector to consolidate Galicia's leadership position on the market, without losing the social and labour involvement of that activity. The amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the development by the Galician Union of the new strategic plan designed for the conservation sector to consolidate Galicia's leadership position on the market, without losing the social and labor involvement of that activity. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 33. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u217	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and six other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the exclusion of post-doctoral researchers from the Ángeles Alvarino programme from the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 of the calls for post-doctoral contracts and post-doctoral training aid published in February and March 2016. He said he accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and six other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the exclusion of post-doctoral researchers from the Ángeles Alvarino programme of 2007, 2008 and 2009 of the calls for post-doctoral contracts and post-doctoral training aid published in February and March 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-legislative proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u218	And in the same sense, it is the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of its Mrs Da Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, who also said that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the exclusion of post-doctoral researchers from the programme Ángeles Alvariño in 2007, 2008 and 2009 of the calls for post-doctoral contracts and support for post-doctoral training published in February and March 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u219	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government to alleviate the losses caused by the atrocities suffered on the days of 29, 30 and 31 March 2016 in various municipalities of Galicia. The rapporteur has already stated that he accepted the amendment, as he adds, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and also, if he agrees, he accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group, but also as an addendum. Do you agree? Do you accept the point vote, Mrs. Pontón? [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, no, no. [[Refusal.]] So we voted as the non-law proposition was. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and Da María Teresca Peace Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government to alleviate the losses caused by the atrocities suffered on the days of 29, 30 and 31 March 2016 in various municipalities of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u220	We now vote in favour of the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García and Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, on the demand that the Galician Union should make to the Central Government in relation to the access of the Greek Members to prisons, as well as to the internal people in them. It has already been stated that he accepted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García and Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, on the demand to be made by the Galician Union to the Central Government in relation to the access of the Greek Members to the prisons, as well as to the people inside them. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u221	Finally, we voted for the Group of the People's Parliament in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the launch by the Committee of Galicia in 2016 of a plan by the Greek to pay attention to the stroke. He has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and does not accept the amendments of the other two groups. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the launch by the Galician Union in 2016 of a plan of Greek attention to the stroke. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 57; votes against, 8; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u222	At the end of the vote, we turn to item 5 of the agenda, which corresponds to the request for an appeal. Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the results of the policy followed in the field of the environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u223	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u224	Good morning. Good afternoon, good afternoon now. Welcome, Environment Advisor. Today we are going to ask you, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a question that is very easy to answer, and that is how you evaluate the results of your environmental policy. What is your balance in environmental policy? Today we've been talking about management of natural resources, and socialists have two basic principles in that management, which are responsibility and solidarity, not only in the management of natural resources, but two of the principles that underpin our ideology. Explain. The responsibility is precisely to manage these natural resources well, and solidarity has to do with the present generations, but especially with future generations, to give them a right to the environment better than we have today. With these two principles in mind, we understand that the answer to the question we ask you is in two ideas: in which you are absolutely irresponsible and absolutely insolent about managing natural resources, and I'm going to explain why. First of all, because the president of the board, who just left, decided to have in his government, in the current and previous, but especially in the present, in less than four years, three different environmental advisors – a counselor and two advisors – and to move from a macro-council to a piece of advice that – allow me to tell you – has assumed you, Counsellor. The second reason is that in the seven budgets approved by the Government, to which you belong, in the field of environmental policies, there has been a drastic reduction in the Environment Council's shares. The funds allocated to the environment in 2005 for the year 2009 have been reduced to about EUR 176 million. The execution of last year's budget of 2015, in real investments, was half the board's budget, and that macro would advise that if it existed with the Environment, Infrastructure and Territory Planning Advisor. Therefore, their budgets are reduced by 17%. Irresponsibility and insolidity. And besides, because in the five essential areas of the environment there is a disaster – we can say so – in its management: in climate change, in biodiversity, in animal protection, in the protection of the sea and the coast, in water and waste. And I'll try to give you examples in each of these areas so that not only you, but the rest of us here, especially those outside, can see it. Counsellor, you discovered global warming and climate change when you traveled to Paris to the top of the world. So much so that their Members, who support their government – they would not – every time we ask them to commission them in the last three years, each year, to draw up a new plan of action against climate change, the first time we ask them to commit it, their Members effectively – speaking to that cousin of Rajoy – that climate change existed. So you discovered it when you traveled to Paris, and we understand that it would be much more productive to the environment than, instead of making trips to Paris, you did, for example, some trip to the Burgo River and you put your feet in the hat, in the mud, which is in the creek. Of course, talking about pollution and climate change in relation to air and noise may be that for you to be, in addition to science fiction. You will know – we suppose – the convictions of the European Union's Court of Justice on noise, and you will also know, in terms of air, that material recovery and energy would prevent the emission of kilograms of CO2 to the atmosphere and therefore air pollution. You have paralysed the Climate Change Action Plan; we have no official data since 2011. You keep a Greek strategy of the year 2005; you budget zero euros year by year. And in your 2015-2020 Strategic Plan you explicitly recognize a number of weaknesses. That greenhouse gas emissions were in 2011 – because they are the latest official data – 18 points above target 2020; that there are processes in Galicia of desertification and erosion; that there is a great vulnerability to the risks of floods and droughts, and that there is a predictable effect of climate change on the increase of pests, diseases and parasites. Still, they vote against a plan. What to say about the protection of species, of spaces and of landscape in biodiversity. You're budgeting... you've spent. They didn't budget, they spent 55,000 euros on signaling natural parks, all over the Natura Network. The current Nature Network Management Plan was a fiasco and a disappointment, essentially for the neighbors that live there, that we are waiting for a wolf management plan and a bear recovery plan. And we continue to burn, Counselor, not only in those places that are not environmentally protected, but also in those that are. Counsellor, the summary of your environmental policy on biodiversity is in the Corcoesto mine, which is now in the courts. We kept burning, and less bad than the neighborhoods of Carril were the Courtyard to put out that fire on one of the islands of the national park! As bad as the neighborhoods of Carril were, because, of course, you or your former companion were not. In animal protection, you do everything, everything, to that draft law that you're going to do. So much so, in an answer that gives us on April 21 to one of our questions about animal sterilization, they say, "The new legal framework that is being dealt with, will analyze and regulate all these issues." So far, that are the protectors in charge – of course, budgeting, zero euro budgeted year by year – of animal protection, control of abandonment and intensification of surveillance for the breaches of the law of 1993. What about the protection of the sea and the coast? Counsellor, when you had to issue a report on the extension of the extension to Ence – a report to Madrid – they issued a report on the amendment of the law of backs, and regarding Ence they did not say a single word. The company asked... not a word, Counselor. [[Applause]] The company asked for 60 years of extension, they could have applied for up to 75, but they considered... by the way, they themselves erroneously admit that they had to ask for 60 years, Madrid decided to give them 60 years, and you didn't say this mouth is mine. That's your policy for the protection of the coast. The laughs are still in danger of great pollution. We do not say so, to the European Union. And you come to tell us a Galicia-Costa hydrological plan for the period 2015-2021, with an investment of 655 million euros, with 24 million euros for 6 Galician rivers for this year. The Water Law, you're supposed to keep it with two new taxes for infrastructure. It's 24 million euros for 6 laughs this year, with the state of our laughs. And when we ask them to derogate you from these tributes, they tell us not to. But at the same time – let's talk about Andalusia because it's a subject that you love – in Andalusia your deputies ask that the water canon of the Water Law of Andalusia be mined. Not the greenery coefficient, because in Andalusia there is no such tribute; if there is water canon, but not greenery coefficient. They ask for a derogation there and here they vote against the request for a derogation. And finally, in the matter of waste you have a plan – recognised by you here, in this plenary – that is expired. A waste plan, a waste management model, which is exhausted, which is obsolete. But they're lowering the budget line in almost 10 million euros. That's right, Sogama's president made statements one day saying that his accounts are the best in his history, and they insult us by announcing that the company has developed awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns for the population of Galicia, specifically for 53.232 people. We are more than two million citizens, so it's 1.9% of Galician people to whom these awareness and awareness campaigns are aimed. Counselor, irresponsibility and absolute insolitude. That's the answer to the question we ask him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u225	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u226	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, the truth is, when I had the opportunity to meet this interpellation, which you make me, almost, I almost think I was living a déjà vu, because this is the third time I've come to answer the same text, the same question. Last year it was used to talk about employment, it was also used to talk about youth... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo if he wants to ask me, he has tools to do it. Well, whenever you want, we talk to you and me. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u227	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u228	Within the obligation of the Government of Galicia to respond to the practices of control of the Government which opposes the opposition, I would like to have the opportunity to answer to Mrs Vilan, so she is supposed to ask this question, which, as I say, was presented more than a year ago, in particular fifteen months, with the same text that uses the formation of the Socialist Party to ask the Infrastructure Adviser, the Environment Adviser, any other advisor. Well, I was a Member of this Parliament more than ten years ago. I know, of course, parliamentary practices, I know the methods of government control work, even the proactive method and all the tactics you can imagine, because I have witnessed as a Member of Parliament and even as a member of the Government, but what I have never really been able to see in this Parliament is an exercise – from my point of view, we are going to say it with all our respect – of a vague writing of questions, in this case on the environment, Mrs Vilan, let me tell you, because it is the tactic of, whenever you want, we came here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Anyway... anyway... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u229	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, no, sorry. Mr. Fajardo, I have to call you in order. Silence! [[Interruptions.]] No, no, quiet. Silence, please, silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Time will be compensated, Counselor. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u230	Thank you. Having said this, of course, it is an opportunity that since the opposition you have to bring to the Government, today they decide that I am the Environmental Counsellor, and for me, of course, it is an honor, and I would also like to express their appreciation that they give me the opportunity as a Government to speak about the important and what I am dealing with in this case, which is the management of environmental policies from the community, and even the management of the territory. Something that, as I said in his speech – which is by all means not written, is not written, but if said by her – is a casket, a casket of government. Well, for her that casket of the Government of Galicia in particular was the casket that carried what was the general secretary of her political formation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u231	Quiet, please. Quiet. Silence! [[Interruptions.]] I understand it's an hour... quiet. [[Murmurs.]] We're tired, but quiet. No, no. Quiet, please. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't want to start calling the order, please. I wouldn't like it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Losada, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u232	Don't call him, don't call him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u233	Go on, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u234	I'll try not to use the same language that the opposition uses so it won't be called to order, because there are words of the Spanish word, which are no insult, which I can't use because, actually... well, we're talking about that word...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u235	Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u236	...then we're left with a councillor, Environmental Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u237	Silence! No, no, I'm saying don't interrupt the advisor. Quiet, please. Silence! Mr. Fajardo, silence, if not, I must call you back to order. Or I have a solution, we temporarily suspend the full and resume it, see if we calm down, please! There are several solutions. We can suspend the full. We must respect those who are in the use of the word, and I ask them to respect it. Yes, yes, respect. [[Interruptions.]] Then there's the replica. [[Murmurs.]] Then there is Mrs Vilán's timely reply, which is the one who puts the plea, does not make it Mr Fajardo or Mr Losada. So, silence and let the advisor continue, if not, I suspend the full. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u238	For five months now, I have the honour to bear the responsibility of the Territorial Environment and Ordination Council; a councillor who, in his time, has also developed an illustrious Member of this House, who has been Secretary General of the Socialist Party and who, of course, has done – I understand – his work in front of this council, just as since the Council of Galicia we have tried to improve it now in this current council. But, as I said, I am grateful for the opportunity to speak in these minutes that I have to question how important the environmental policies that have been developed since the Government of Galicia and that are developing now, and that obviously starts its management capacity for having a greater budget capacity than last year. That is to say, this council, which today is a unique decision-making councillor of the President of Galicia, who wants to make the environment the protagonist of his political management, in addition to being the protagonist of being the sole advisor, also has a budget increase of 6.64%, which means that he exceeds by two points the growth rate of the entire Government of Galicia. Of course, neither I as advisors nor the advisers who preceded me nor the Government of the Union in general, discover the situation and the problems of climate change through a journey. You don't have to travel anywhere to know that the problem of climate change isn't a Galician problem, it's not a problem of Spain, it's a problem of the whole world. It is a problem about what just a few days ago was ratified in New York by the commitment of all countries – of more than 196 countries – and we had the opportunity, as the Government of Galicia, to ratify also the commitment of the Government of the United Nations in an act in which, indeed, the Government of the State participated at the Paris Summit, where we had the opportunity to see a concrete commitment, which was the local water pact, and that is another step forward in the fight against climate change. Obviously, it is not the first, since by 2012, very much before that summit, there was a report on climate change in Galicia that collected 84 measures managed by the various councils of the Union and where there was an investment of 35 million euros, Mrs Vilán. Not of EUR 1 billion, as you said, but of EUR 35 million. And second. Now we are already working on the second report on climate change, an extensive report, a comprehensive report, with concrete measures, which will be presented shortly; a report that will take up all the progress achieved in the last four years in the struggle for the reduction of atmospheric gases that produce the so-called greenhouse effect. And it will also be part of this report of something we believe necessary, the Government of the Galician Union, which is an environmental sustainability strategy in which all the challenges facing Galicia in environmental matters are identified, which, of course, are prevention, and will arise from there every opportunity for our community. Another challenge we face is the improvement in waste management. Making progress in recycling culture is a duty for all administrations, and so it was already reflected in the 2010-2020 Urban Waste Plan. That plan already begins to show its results, among which we highlight the reduction of 11% of the per capita waste generation in the last six years, and even an increase of 18% of the clean points. This makes it possible for 2.4 million Greeks to have this service right now, and obviously this increase is due to an investment of 6.5 million euros that has been made since 2009. One of the great news we are already working on is the Industrial Waste Plan; a new plan that will complement urban waste, which will be accompanied by an important effort in the prevention and recycling of industrial waste. In this action, in the latter, not in the plan, but in the latter, in the area of prevention and recycling, we will invest a total of 3 million euros. This will be between 2016 and 2017. This plan, which we will now approve in these months, will be the first specific industrial waste plan in our autonomous community. He was also speaking, Your Honor, of Sogama. Indeed, Sogama is a public company that collects urban waste from 295 municipalities in Galicia, i.e., from virtually all the municipalities in Galicia, more than 95% of the municipalities are in Sogama, and which actually had in 2015 indicators that can be proud of because they have improved year after year, among them their ability to recycle, which has increased the tons they have recycled, reaching about 600,000 tons, with a percentage of growth of 28% with respect to what we found when we arrived in 2009. Its ability to generate and value more waste, that is, to generate more energy, to reach 360,000 megawatts of time produced by the thermoelectric plant, and they also diverted themselves to the dump much less tons than they had when we arrived. In fact, when we got to the dump, 413,000 tons were diverted and now 185,000 were diverted; that is, less than half. Sogama has consolidated as a modern and recognized waste management model, and, of course, is being efficient and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u239	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u240	...and self-sufficient. I would also like to talk about water policy, and, above all, about all the related investment in the matter of sanitation and supply of our autonomous community. At the worst moments of the Government of Galicia, EUR 1 billion was invested in the hydrological plan, EUR 1 billion!, of which 600 were invested in the rivers of our autonomous community. It was EUR 1 billion that covered 350 performances, covered 160 municipalities, built 35 new debuggers. And, of course, we cover up with this investment to more than one million people; that is, half of the Greeks had the opportunity to benefit from the construction of these new facilities. Obviously, water quality has improved, but we have to keep moving on. That's why there's a new plan, which will cover an investment of €655 million by 2020, which will be allocated more than €100 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u241	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u242	...in concrete 131, for our laughs. In the second part of the interpellation I will try to clarify a little more details on conservation of nature. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u244	Thank you, President. Counselor, the question was very easy, the question is written. What comes before the question is your job to talk about it, which is the environment. What comes before the question is an introduction, but the question is very clear. You all have to do is come here and, instead of talking about a deja vu that might have to do with your trip to Paris or that you and Mr. Balsairo share the same header advisor, which is an expression that Mr. Balsairo uses a lot, because perhaps, instead of coming here talking to us of a deja vu, he might not have spent almost five minutes of his speech on saying nothing at all. And your environmental speech, Counselor, in those five minutes, is an example of your advisor's environmental policy. I mean, nothing, in Spanish; nothing, in French or nothing, in case you travel to New York to that new peak that could be about the environment. [[Applause]] In any case, welcome to the discourse on climate change that has been around the world for several years. You in 2012, in this Parliament, in the Committee on the Environment, voted against the Socialists' request for a new plan against climate change, minimizing that climate change was a problem, not of Galicia, but of the world. So, check what your parliamentary group was saying at that time, Counselor, and Rajoy's cousin, of course. We're talking about waste and it says they've been reduced – you're curiously matching the president of Sogama – by 11%, but it's for the crisis, advisor. People consume less because they have less money, and then the waste coming to Sogama is less. That's the logical explanation. Counselor, not only exists Sogama, there are two other plants in Galicia that also deal with waste management, and you'd be glad to come here and recognize it. It's an absolute irresponsibility that the president of Sogama – and you – says there's a small part going to the dump, very small parts. But you don't know, because there's less production, and because you don't make technical stops, counselor, that's why it's less in the dump. It's an absolute irresponsibility that you and your Sogama president say it was Sogama who developed a plan of viability, when it's not true. It was Price-Waterhouse Cooper and you paid him almost 60,000 euros for that viability plan. It's an absolute irresponsibility, counsellor, that you call trouble to the municipalities that don't pay for the increase in Sogama's canon, when those councils went to trial and there are several questions of unconstitutionality, by judges who, of course, have nothing to do with Sogama, precisely because of that increase in Sogama's cannon. It's an absolute irresponsibility that you come here to say that the laughs are much better and that, because you're doing your job well, there's a million Greeks that can benefit themselves, when less than two years ago the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions has come here to take us out of our ears and tell us that the Welsh rivers were in danger of their contamination. It's an absolute irresponsibility, Counsellor, that you come here to talk about the good that the laughs are, that you say you're going to use I don't know how many millions – just like you did in your appearance at the Environment Committee on October 26, 2015 – 24 million euros, and then you're going to give your hand to the manager of Cence in Pontevedra to take a picture and to take care of it, precisely, that 15 million euros from the new debugger for Pontevedra will pay you a private company and not your administration, which is who is responsible for cleaning in Galicia. The rest, by the way, will come, according to you, 45 million euros, for the expansion and improvement of the station of Pleasures, of the Feder funds. I mean, the Galician board won't invest a single euro; 45 million of the Feder funds and 15 million that you're going to put... up to 15 million you said and also said the president of the board, by the way. You're going to put zero euros in debugging. That reflects, Counselor, your interest in the environment. The five minutes of loss of the beginning of his intervention, his absolute irresponsibility, which will lead, unfortunately to all, not only for us, but also for the generations that come after us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u245	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u246	...to an insolidarity that comes after so they can enjoy an adequate environment. Counselor, travel less and lean a little more to worry about the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u248	I will try to focus this intervention on the important thing, which is to talk about the issues that you have raised in your question in an oral way. You're talking about Sogama, in particular. Obviously, I think you can recognize, without that being any evidence of irresponsibility, but rather quite the opposite, that, indeed, Sogama is being efficient; Sogama is being self-sufficient; Sogama is presenting black numbers; i.e., things are being handled better. It's not true that you're reducing the treatment management capacity of Sogama plant, but quite the opposite. Sogama has increased its capacity until it reaches a historic peak, which is this year 2015, where it has treated 550,000 tons, almost 600,000 tons. Now it's in a process of enlargement and growth, with an investment of more than 30 million euros this year, precisely to respond not only to technical improvement, which will also be an environmental improvement, but also to waste management capacity, which will be increased once this investment is implemented, about 700,000 tons that can be treated in Sogama. This will mean that Sogama, which is an efficient plant, a plant with an environmentally efficient method, as I say, sustainable and self-sufficient, will be who, in addition, will be able to absorb all the treatment of tons of Galicia. Sogama has a modality – it is also important to remember – it is for voluntary agreement signed that the 295 municipalities that voluntarily want it to be carried to this entity. No one is obliged, it's a voluntary decision of every county. Sogama is taking about 98% of the municipalities in our community. We know the situation in which Nostián is, and we also know the situation in which Luusame is. Obviously, each of them works independently. We formally urge Nostián and even Lousame not only to ensure environmental and economic efficiency, but also to be self-sufficient, which today is not demonstrating. Of course, what is an irresponsibility is to talk about the unconstitutional resources on Sogama's canon, when such unconstitutional resources are not yet admitted to processing as such unconstitutional resources. So, the one who asks, that it will, will voluntarily grant Sogama the management of its waste, obviously will also have to accommodate the payment of that management, which is what is done from Sogama. Speaking of water and investment in water, that investment is already reflected. It's not Baladi talking about EUR 1 billion, from the year 2009 until now, on an investment in sanitation. And it is not ballad to say that, of these EUR 1 billion, 600 were directed directly to improve the quality of our rivers, where, by the way, they were invested – like, for example, in the Burgo River – EUR 100 million just to improve their situation. And where, by the way, in 2016, to complete that Burgo River Sanitation Plan, this council will invest about 6 million euros to, with two actions, try to complete that action plan. [[Applause]] As it is not ballad the investment that since the Galician Union we are also ready to make in the Pontevedra River, after maintaining a meeting with all the maricadores, the maricadores presidents and even the representative of the Association for Defence of Ría, precisely to see that the Galician Union – the Galician Union, no other – will invest about 11 million euros this year, which are at the disposal of the Poio Town Hall, which are at the disposal of the Marin Town Hall and also in the drafting of a sanitation plan. The Council of Galicia wants, and so does it from the Government as a whole, to ask the Ence to buy it; to meet with the stream of Pontevedra, to meet Pontevedra and its region and to engage not in its own interests, but in the interests of improving the environmental situation of Pontevedra and its region. That's what we demanded. And we demand an environmental commitment from Ence that will translate into 15 million euros that Ence will give to make a new debugger.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u250	Debugger that, Your Honor, if you knew about water, you would know it doesn't cost – if you compare it to Vigo's debugger, if you compare it to the Coruña debugger – 15 million euros. We have an estimate, already committed to the operational programme by 2020, of 45 million euros minimum for Pleasures. He didn't say, he didn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He spoke of 24 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u251	Quiet, please. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u252	It's 45 million euros minimum for Pleasures. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, if you give me the chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u253	Quiet, quiet. You're done, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u254	...no liability, all the responsibility of the Government of Galician Union to improve water quality, all the responsibility for improving waste management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u255	Quiet, quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u256	...and all solidarity with ensuring...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u257	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the full till 6:30. [[The session is suspended at 2:40 a.m. and resumed at 4:30 a.m.]] Modifying and Modifying the Agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u258	I urge you to ask question No. 49062 of the agenda, at the request of the Galician Council, and that question No. 48846 of point 7.6, be discussed after 7.1. We continue with the Parliamentary Group's inquiry into the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the social protection of unemployed workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u259	Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u260	Well, good afternoon to all. The truth is that we are dealing with a subject of this gravity at this very exciting time for the parliamentary debate because it shows the need to change at least the forms of the parliamentary debate. We bring an interpellation – no, I say it for everyone, not just for the Government, don't worry, Counsellor, I say it for everyone, not just for the Government; that is, we do self-criticism, which the Government does not always do – and when we talk about a situation like that which we bring to ask the Government today how the situation of unemployment is and, above all, the coverage of those who don't find employment, we're talking about what is one of the biggest failures of this social model and what we call the rupture of that social contract signed during the transition. And it is ultimately only a consequence of the policies of austerity and austereness that the Government of the People's Party in the State and the Council of Galicia applies to their feet by the mandate of the troika and the European Union. Our working class, our labour market model is characterized today by precariousness, uncertainty, inability to put a vital project on the table. And, above all, because of the absence of any kind of social mattress of resistance, in the sense that nowadays anyone who can lose his job has a lot of difficulty in accessing protection mechanisms for him and his family as a whole. In this sense, we are in a context where the deprotection figure is historical. If we analyze the data today, we can prove that 27.8 of the unemployed are the only ones who have protection; that is, almost 70% of the unemployed today are in a state of unprotection. It's a fact that I can corroborate you whenever you want, don't put that face, you know you're going to talk about 51%, but if we add all those who should be on the unemployment lists and are not about it, for example, people who are in full pre-retirement situation, on part-time contracts and who get to unemployment, the figure placed on the table by a highly prestigious economist, like Mr. Negueruela, is 27.8% of unemployment protection; that is, only 3 out of 10 unemployed have some level of protection. And from these, most of them, more than 50 percent, are at the care level, even on issues that should have been considered by the State and not by the State, and so on, by the autonomous communities. I think I'm going to put a data on the table which is very significant: the reduction since 2011 in unemployment protection policies is EUR 25,000 million in the state as a whole. 25,000 million euros, that is the reality of what we are talking about in terms of reducing protection policies. These are the reduction data, but taking into account that over this period of time there were two and a half million more unemployed in the state as a whole, the reduction they would have spent on the initial conditions of 2011 on the protection of unemployment is EUR 41.346 million. We are therefore talking about a barbarity of cutting that went directly to the pockets of the unemployed in this country. Exactly those who needed it most were those who received the greatest stockpiling, 41,000 million euros that were withdrawn from unemployment benefits. If we're talking about that the bank rescue set in this country was EUR 100 billion, we're talking about that almost half of the bank rescue was at the expense of what the unemployed in this country no longer felt. So we are in the presence of a sick society, which decides at times of the worst economic situation for the state as a whole, but especially for the working class, to unprotect the unemployed and protect the bank. And being able to drain 100 billion euros public to save the bank and remove it, yes, 41.346 million euros to unemployment benefits. We therefore believe that it is time to change this situation, that it is true that the set of policies for the protection of unemployment have to do with the powers of the State, but it is no less certain that the State has given up this reality by making decisions that run counter to the possibilities of access to these benefits. That's why many autonomous communities, in the state as a whole, have had to assume this responsibility, and that's why many of them are above the levels of deficit that the state allows them to. This is not the case of Galicia, the case of Galicia is the champion to meet the deficit, and precisely it is because it is not able to implement policies that cover the lack of protection that the State does, for example, with our unemployed. Other communities have taken initiatives to protect, and so in many cases they cover the deficit figures. What we are considering, therefore, is the first disjunctive, is it possible to make policies for the protection of our employees? Yes, it's possible, it's a political initiative and we have to make decisions about who is first protected: whether multinational banks, the bank that is causing the crisis or those people who have lost their jobs because of the bank's demos? It seems clear that the People's Party and bipartisanism have decided to support these seconds and not the unemployed workers. But it must also be said that there is a need to change cutting policies with regard to the conditions for access to these unemployment situations. Since the People's Party's Government came to the Government, the cuts have continued not only in quantities, but also – as you all know – in the situation of what it has to do with the conditions of access. And I think there's a very important data, when the People's Party comes to power, the average state-wide benefit was 1,000 euros per unemployed person, today it's 770 euros; that is, 300 euros below when they arrived. So we're in an ongoing attack on these levels of protection for our unemployed people, which all they do is violate the Constitution. That going up to this stage today to suggest that respecting the Constitution is revolutionary is a matter that, of course, has to do with the degradation of a model. And a model where those who call themselves constitutionalists, those who say it's impossible to change the Constitution. Because we respect her, it's the ones who don't do it. And we, already today, consider it revolutionary that we respect the Constitution, which in its article 41 clearly speaks of ensuring the assistance of sufficient social benefits in situations of need, and especially in the situation of unemployment. I mean, the People's Party, which is the champion of the world of corruption, the champion of the world of illegality with regard to its financing, is also the champion of the world with regard to violating the Constitution which stands for so much. We're going to an election campaign where the People's Party will say it's the guarantor of the Constitution, the constitutional regime and the unity of Spain. But the only thing you're not going to say is that they are the first to violate the Constitution, for example, in Article 41 that demands in a clear way that the powers of the State must contribute to assistance in benefits to people who lose their jobs because of the absolutely suicidal economic policies of a government that sees the working class as an element to continue to suck and continue to take resources to drain large multinationals and banks. Our interpellation is very clear, the first question we ask you is, what will the Council of Galicia do to compensate for the unprotection situation of our unemployed?, when it is clear that this situation is not assumed by those with competence, which is the state's whole. The second is whether from this public administration, since Galicia, we are going to transfer to the Government of the State, which is leaving the next elections, if they understand that it must be absolutely necessary not only to correct the cuts on unemployment benefits and the difficulties of their access, but also to implement new measures to enable anyone who has lost their jobs to know that it has guaranteed, at least, a vital minimum. We also thought clearly and forcefully, what are you going to do about those most desperate situations? We know that unemployment has a very important impact on the older 45, the younger 45, but also on women. And these three groups need special attention to avoid their exclusion and that today they are in a situation where nearly half of our unemployed people have been unemployed for more than a year, and therefore many of them are unable to access a benefit. And above all, we also ask you about an initiative that we believe is absolutely fundamental. You know that after the reform of the People's Party to access accumulation periods that give rise to unemployment only the last six years. And so you can't accumulate previous processes that had six-month, three-month, premiums in periods prior to six years. And we asked them, what does the Galician Council think about the legal amendment, which we believe is fair, which is the effect of calculating that periods of unemployment can be added to any period worked during working life that has not given rise to any previous unemployment benefit? So these are our positions, the first question is to denounce the overwhelming barbarity of cutting as to the benefits that have been made since the Government of the People's Party; it must be remembered, EUR 45,000 million, an absolute barbarity! The second question is, what policies has the Council of Galicia planned to implement in order to be able to complement this reality? And the last is a very specific question about a position of our organization that has to do with accumulating the periods of unemployment generated prior to the age of six so that people can access these benefits. I know you're gonna put me on the table with Plan Prépé, the plan... and so on, and I'd ask you, like you're going to talk about it, to give me data on how many people have arrived. But, above all -- because then I'll have another turn to answer it -- like those press notes where they said to where they were going, how many unemployed people would arrive, it turns out that in many cases they only covered 10% of the coverage target that was raised at the beginning of these plans arranged with social agents. So it's your turn, and I hope you can put some sort of hope on the table. Although, of course, from our organization we understand that for you this is not a coincidence, but it is fruit of your political model, which is that they pay for the weaker crisis, the working class. And that, therefore, those 45,000 million euros that stop paying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u262	...well employees are used for those of old, who are none other than those who have taken us to this situation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u263	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u264	All right, thank you very much, Madam President. Fajardo, ladies and gentlemen. The first is to move Mr Fajardo and his group to discuss the situation of workers in Galicia. And, therefore, to debate the Government's actions and all the measures that can favour both job creation and the situation of our workers. But if I may, first of all, I would like to transfer two aspects to you, first of all, transfer your welcome, respect and compliance with the Constitution. The truth is that I believe it is good news that you actually go up here to this stage and put the Spanish Constitution as guaranteed, and that, therefore, it actually adds to what is parliamentary democracy in Spain, and in that sense, therefore welcome. [[Applause]] Secondly, to move it that we actually agree with the main objective it has to have and has this Government, which must indeed be focused on those economic policies that are linked to job creation. And if I want to move you to join this debate, because the AGE Parliamentary Group never wants to talk about industrial policy, it never wants to talk about economic policy. And so what they don't want to talk about is about employment, you want to talk about universal income, but they never want to talk about employment. So I think that this aspect is also positive if we want to take a serious and rigorous examination of the different policies applied by both the Government and the Council of Galicia. But indeed, in this case you are not referring to the trend that the Government's economic policies are having, and you are not referring as data from the active population survey because Galicia is improving its employability situation. And as Galicia closed the year 2015 with 41,100 unemployed less, as at the end of last year there were 41,500 more workers with full-time contracts, as undefined employees have also grown in Galicia for the first time since 2011. And finally, he's ignoring that in Galicia two out of three employees are undefined with a full-time employment contract. All this data is official data and reflect a positive evolution of the Welsh labour market, which we expect, in addition, to be confirmed tomorrow when the data of the first quarter of 2016 is published. But you also tell me about the coverage rate, logically we have different head economists; my head economists don't match yours, so neither does data analysis. The coverage rate in Galicia that is officially collected is therefore homogeneous and comparable to the rest of the Spanish State, is at 52.4%. You know that Galicia is today the fifth autonomous community with the highest coverage rate in Spain, and you hide here in Parliament that autonomous communities that have a better coverage rate, for example Extreme, Andalusia, actually have better coverage rates than Galicia, but because of PER. And you know that your political party in Madrid, Podemos, disagrees with this kind of measure. In any case, we try to be consistent, we don't respond to incongruent policies, and we're actually trying to work in a double direction. First of all, what you don't want to talk about, which is the generation of jobs. And secondly, indeed, this government also works on better social protection, and therefore trying and working to integrate all families that need government help. And in that sense, you should also figure out how Galicia is the community that has most reduced the population at risk of poverty from 2009 to 2014. That's the last available data. And you should also know that this poverty risk rate in Galicia dropped by 5 points, and that is 15.4%, when Spain is 22%. These are official data, data that should mark rigour in the debate and therefore from there on find appropriate solutions and a diagnosis. It is true that this improvement does not mean that in Galicia we do not have to continue to work, that we have to continue to work, because we still have people at risk of exclusion and therefore the Government also complements its employment policies, its industrial policies, with actions to promote this integration of people at risk of exclusion. In 2016 we increased these shares for social inclusion, grew by 24%, reaching 86 million euros, and we are reinforcing with 5 million euros additional the amount for social integration income in Galicia, 10.5% more resources than in 2015, where they benefited, as you know, about 14,000 people. But in addition to these initiatives, the Galician Union is also developing a plan against economic inequality, we have the possibility and our families have the possibility to turn to the electric ticket to benefit from a reduction in energy cost. The Reconduce Program knows that it allows all those who cannot pay rent to benefit, 376 families have already done so, and also the promotion of a social rental for families at risk of evicting from their homes for not paying mortgages or rents. Finally, Mr Fajardo, a whole series of social policies, the Plan against Economic Inequity, the departures for social inclusion, the Risks, which have mitigated the situation of those people who are at risk of poverty and thus complemented the Government's policy of action. But indeed, the Government is working for the improvement of employment. He's working with recruitment incentives, in those collectives that you moved into his intervention, trying to integrate collectives into the labour market, such as long-term unemployed people, women, youth or people with disabilities. We are developing a whole series of measures that we also understand as important with the new long-term unemployed programme, which will allow Galicia to have an 8 million-euro allocation. Logically, Mr. Fajardo, our view of employment and social protection policies is true that it is diametrically opposed to yours. That, logically, is a reality, and in the face of public income, which you propose, but you never say how they're going to be financed, because this government is trying to strengthen active employment policies. Faced with this subsidy the perpetuity that you also propose, this Government is committed to employment, and that is not to the industry that you permanently transfer in this House against the automobile, against the naval or aircraft, because this Government is supporting investments that are good for Galicia. So, Your Honor, the summary is that this Government is working to offer opportunities and to offer jobs to citizens, because citizens, Mr Fajardo, don't want help, citizens want jobs. That's why this government won't do it is to promise rents that can't be financed; that kind of policy, logically, we leave them for the AGE Group and its confluences. We know that you have as reference certain economists, as well as certain countries. I understand your economic reference is surely Greece, your Government's friend of Tsipras, but you know that this Government with its policies, its own, not those of this Government, its, has just proposed a cut in the new retirements of up to 12%. In Greece, the income tax will rise by 7 points between €20,000 and €25,000 per year. It's going to rise from 23 to 24%, and it's going to increase fuel and gas prices as well. This one, of course, Mr. Fajardo, is not our model. Our model is to consolidate the economic recovery step by step through the generation of more economic activity, more employment, because that's what the Greeks are demanding of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u265	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Fajardo has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u266	Well, the truth is, I can only regret the unconsciousness of an employment counselor who comes here without taking his appearance seriously. When we're talking about protection policies for the unemployed, I'm going to give you data on what these protection policies are for the unemployed. In his area, and of course Risga has nothing to do with it, but increasing Risk in several million euros means the most obvious failure of these policies. I'm going to try to dismantle one by one of the data you gave, but first it's when we talk about employment. Yeah, let's talk about work. Creating jobs does not mean cutting jobs; creating jobs does not mean having jobs at any price, and I'm going to give you a figure that in Galicia is quite significant. When you arrived at the Government of this country in 2009, you had 46.13 million hours of work per week. 46.13 million hours a week. The last date of 2015, December 2015, transferred this to 35 million hours a week. What does that mean? That the hours worked a week in this country were reduced by 20.6. Actually, this means that you've destroyed, since you got to the Government, 253,000 full-time jobs. He might be working more than in 2014 and 2013, but how long does he work?, what's his salary? The reality: 20.6% less hours worked in Galicia since you arrived at the Government. So you can't say creating jobs when what you're doing is tearing, tearing and splitting the labour market apart. It's fake that you're generating jobs, ruining a job to create three more precarious jobs. Look, you tell me that your process of helping the unemployed has to do with the electric ticket is a coat of hair. Do you know how much the electric ticket is? 140 euros for a whole year. How many bill of light can you pay with 140 euros in a family? Do you know what conditions this family has to have in order to access that electric ticket? Are you able to pay even the heating of a month in your house with 140 euros? I'll tell him, no, he can't pay. So it's an absolute shame. Second question. Are we going to generate jobs in this country when more than 61% of Galician workers earn less than the minimum wage? 61% of workers in this country earn less than the minimum wage, 645 euros, that's the reality of the job you're generating. What's the other reality? 113,000 people in this country are unemployed and do not receive any kind of benefit. So you're talking about reality that's not what this country has. And I ask you to put the data on the table of how many people of that Plan Prépré were attended, just about 10% of the official announcement of the People's Party. So what's the reality? That you have no alternative mechanism to access, say, enough income for those 113,000 people. You say my party, look, I'm not from Podemos, I'm from Left Unity, AGE and the Communist Party. By the way, the Communist Party signed the Constitution, it's true that some of us argued that there had to be a democratic rupture, and perhaps it didn't have it, but my party signed the Constitution, and those who don't do it are you. We had to sign the Constitution that we didn't want, but it's up to you: your article 41, of the right to persons who don't have a job to receive an unemployment benefit. So those who don't believe in this Constitution turn out that we are the only ones who say that it is being fulfilled, that at least this Constitution is being complied with. You're indemnified in a tax and repeated manner. You tell me how we're going to do it to, say, fund our universal incomes. For I'm going to put a data on the table that is clear, 47,000 million euros less for unemployment benefits that would be dedicated, but if each of the euros that is in Panama, Sweden, on the Jersey Islands – and many of them funded or by people linked to the People's Party – were in this country, we would have enough income through taxes to meet these demands. By the way, when you get a universal income like that, you stop receiving all other kinds of benefits: you don't have to pay Risga anymore, you don't have to pay electric tickets anymore, because that income is supposed to be a minimum coverage for people. So in this country, why not pay the benefits to the unemployed? First, because it takes 45,000 million euros of your pockets to pay the banks. Secondly, because much of the wealth this country produces is in tax havens and fraud, for example, those who pay in B their headquarters. The People's Party knows that it paid in B its headquarters in Madrid, that's the model you're defending. But don't tell me, besides, that poverty has been reduced in Galicia, it's a lie, it's a lie, it's a false, it's a barbarity that you say that!, and it shows an inability to understand what a statistical figure is. The poverty threshold in this country has been reduced because the average income has been reduced, and when you charge less in this country, supposedly, of course, it's closer to average income for people who are less likely to charge, but in this country the reality is that 61% of the workers who work earn less than the minimum wage. We have 25% of poor workers, for the first time in history working means being able to remain poor. And that, why, by the policies of the People's Party that directly attack the working class and our workers. I hope now, in your last replica turn, you can put something you're going to do on the table, because you've come here to say that things are going very well. In a country where things are going very well, people continue to go hungry, and people continue to have enormous difficulties in accessing a job when they were expelled by industrial policies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u267	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u268	...of the People's Party. More than half of the unemployed have been unemployed for more than a year, without any kind of employment alternative, by the way, reducing the budget of the Galician Employment Policy Union, 56% less in active employment policies. That's the model of the People's Party, giving them a stick to those who don't have the blame for the crisis. And that's right, silver tray for the bankers and those who have the money in Panama. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u269	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. The truth is to come to this debate, I am sorry to say, without any official data to be able to have a rigorous debate, because it unfortunately leads to many mistakes. From the ideological point of view, I understand it, from the point of view of talking about employment policies, because it's already much more complicated. The data on the evolution of unemployment are published at the National Institute of Statistics and the Galego Institute of Statistics; you know perfectly well that Galicia has lowered the rate of unemployment, in addition, with much better behavior than in the state. We are lowering the rate of youth unemployment, as well as the rate of unemployment for women, and therefore we are developing a policy that seeks to respond to what the Greeks are asking us to do, which is actually opening opportunities. These are policies that are still insufficient, because as long as we have a 17% unemployment rate, logically any policy is insufficient, and that's why we want to talk about employment. You don't, you want to talk about models, governments, I repeat to you, I tell you before Greece, if you want to go to another country that is actually also part of the leadership governments of both AGE and Marea, as well as of Podemos, remember the government of Maduro, right? This Government of Venezuela, which is its reference head, because I would ask you if that lack of food and basic products that are suffering from Venezuelan citizenship is what you want for Galicia. I would ask you if those electricity cuts that develop in Venezuela are what you want for Galicia. Finally, I understand that you, who follows your spokesperson in this kind of policy of so much reference from Venezuela, from the financial point of view, from the point of view of employment policy, because this Government logically does not defend them... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u271	Mrs. Martínez, you have a call to order. You have a second call to order, and you know what the third call is. Continue, Counselor, please. You have two calls.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u272	In any case, I insist, you don't want to talk about industrial policy, you don't want to talk about economic policy. We do want to talk, we want to talk about jobs; you don't; you will know what they want to offer Galicia. We will continue to work on these active employment policies; we will continue to work on those social policies that accompany the needs of the most needy groups; we will continue to support long-term unemployed people, because they are indeed one of the most needed and require greater attention; we will develop a specific programme for long-term unemployed people, which will be equipped with 8 million euros and which at the last sectoral conference was allocated to Galicia; we will therefore try to ensure that our workers have a network so that they can actually open those opportunities. You know perfectly well that this government has a new employment agenda, a employment agenda that will allow for greater employment inclusion, that will work for equality and quality of work, and logically we will try to continue improving the positive results that we have in recent years. He knows that the Greek bias rate is the second lowest in all of Spain; he knows, Mr Fajardo, that the average annual salary in 2014 exceeds the average wage of 2008 – he knows it, but he doesn't want to recognize it – and he also knows that wage developments are positive, that in 2015 they increased by 0.82%. So, Your Honor, we agreed on the need to create more jobs, we agreed on the need to improve the working conditions of our workers, but, of course, the situation in which most of the Greeks live is far from your description. In any case, what I can tell you is that the Government of Greece, with its mistakes and with its successes, too, with its successes – which it has – will not fail to make efforts to create employment opportunities and will not fail to support all families who need it most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u273	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Joint action on the policy of the Government of Greece on the care, protection and defence of minors orphans as a result of gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u274	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u275	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. This plea that I bring to this plenary today does not respond to electoralist or partisan purposes, nor does it intend to wear out any government. It is a matter for everyone and all that I consider to be very important. Even though I'm not present, gender-based violence has a great impact on the psychological and emotional development of children and children. Since pregnancy, gender violence has caused a strong stress on the mother, which can affect the growth of the fetus. During childhood, exposure to these situations of violence has negative, significant short-term, medium- and long-term effects, in emotional, social, cognitive and academic development, and can also affect the functioning of adult life. Some of its possible effects are: problems of socialization, isolation, insecurity, problems of integration, nightmares, insomnia, phobias, anxiety, alterations in affective development and internalization of wrong gender behaviors. In some cases the extreme consequence of this kind of violence is the murder of children and children, mostly as well as their mothers or as revenge against them. I consider it important to insist and indicate that the effects of gender-based violence are also detected in children and children who do not witness moments of aggression. But the mere fact of living in an environment where the dynamics of abuse exist has consequences, as it can be that it ends up internalizing violent models, which in many cases repeat themselves in adulthood. Neither society nor in many cases mothers themselves understand the impact gender violence has on their children. And in this respect, it's significant that about 17% of the population considers one of the reasons why the batterer is for them and them, children and children. On the other hand, there are no quantitative studies or a systematic collection of data on minor children and children killed by masculine violence to enable them to make appropriate decisions to answer this question. Although since the adoption of various laws against gender-based violence increased social assistance to children and children and children of women victims of gender-based violence, it is necessary to strengthen and expand specific resources to assist them. To set an example. When a woman comes to a trial accompanied by her children or children in a case of macho violence, no one attends these children or children, there is no suitable place for them to judge them, no staff specific to their attention. Expand the specific resources to assist them, in order to ensure coordination between the different areas – political, health, education, social, judicial, family and economic –. That is to say, to protect and protect these victims, as article 9 of the Spanish Constitution collects when recognizing the responsibility of public authorities to ensure the social, economic and legal protection of the family and, in particular, of the children and the children, as they command the different international agreements that they observe for their rights. I believe that those and the minor victims of gender-based violence are not being adequately protected from the beginning of the procedure, and I am concerned about the institutional care that is being dispensed to them and that can leave them destitute. The legislator himself considered disability for the exercise of the homeland power, guardianship, custody or shelter in the crime of gender violence as an accessory penalty. We must avoid, Counselor, that the convicted batterer may continue to perpetuate violence against the woman through his daughters and children or against the minors themselves. The best compliance with the rule must be the effective and prompt guardianship, in the interests of the child, so it is incomprehensible that it is precisely that argument of the best interest of the child the defendant to suspend the visit regime. This omission has already been claimed by almost all actors and actresses in the fight against gender violence, from lawyers to lawyers, victims, NGOs, prosecutors, who understand that the abusive father must lose the parental power of the children, since they become another tool of abuse to the mother. But when the result of having suffered the violence of gender ends with the mother's murder, as a result that the minor or incapacitated gets orphaned, he cannot afford to withdraw his father's power to the murderer. It must also be exceptional to grant custody to relatives of the same, and of course the Administration cannot continue to practise institutional violence against these orphans and orphans carrying them with procedures that are unable to assume or understand. The society that has abandoned the mother must therefore be extremely protective of the person who gets orphaned. So the interpellation I make to you, Counsellor, aims to focus on the shortcomings and difficulties that minors and minors who are victims of gender-based violence find, as well as the administrative problems and the lack of protection to which they are subjected by a system that undermines or does not protect them sufficiently. Just remember that more than half a hundred minors were orphaned in the Spanish state after their mothers were murdered by their parents, couples or former couples. For all this, I ask you if we count on you, Counsellor, with specific measures for your attention, protection and defense for minors and their families. I refer specifically to specific care units in the field of health care, in the psychological field, in the legal-administrative field in a centralized way, without having to go to various units or services to carry out procedures that will have to be carried out. It helps in the process of succession, in the management and common expenses of the murdered mother's usual housing, in the changes in title, in the legal and administrative processes, economic aid, access to accounts, consistency of psychological reports of forensic expertise, what about the right of the killer's widow? I know that the inquiry has a lot of questions, Counsellor, but I would be grateful if you could reply to all of them as far as possible, since they are very concrete and I think that it is very important to have a vision of the problems faced by minors, which can also be extended to the disabled, at such dramatic moments that make them even more vulnerable so that all of us, ladies and gentlemen, can come up with complementary measures for the protection of orphans because of gender violence. These are my questions. What specific measures and actions does the Galician Union have for the care, protection and defence of minors victims of gender-based violence with the result of orphanages? Do you have the Galician board of administrative, psychological, legal, judicial and specific police officers who care for these minors and their families throughout the proceedings since the mother's murder? What are they? What mechanisms and aids are made available to these children and their families to help them and protect them? Are the visits of the aggressor and the family of the child immediately suspended to prevent pressures and damage? What data do you have about it? Do you have these minor psychological, specialized psychiatric care guaranteed from the moment of the event and while it's necessary? Is there any measure to ensure agility in the various administrative procedures consequential, such as judicial custody, successors, etc.Is that what you're talking about? Do you have an exemption at the expense of the proceedings? What about garbage taxes, contributions, surpluses and other legacy associates? Are these payments paralysed during the court proceedings? Is there any economic fund in the specific board and immediate payment for minors orphans for gender violence? Shared ownership accounts will be blocked to avoid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u277	...the isolation on the part of the killer holder or his family? And I'm done. Are psychological reports or forensic expert evidence consistent or a mere administrative process? Do you lose the right to a widow or a murderer in favor of the orphans? I hope you answer me all. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u278	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole matter for the children of Galicia is a priority for all of us. I agree with you in the drama that involves the effects on the minors of gender-based violence, with the drama and with many of the considerations you've made from this rostrum. And I'm going to try to answer to the battery of questions that I'm asking, as I was told, given the competence of the Council of Social Policy of Galicia, because some refer to the legislation of a state character. I'll read one at a time. What specific actions and measures does the Galician Union have – ask me – for the care, protection and defense of the minor victims of gender violence with the result of orphanhood? Minors are the direct victims of male violence. Thus, it is credited to the entry into force of the laws amending the system for the protection of children and adolescents, in particular on 18 August 2015, by amending Article 1 of Organic Law 1/2004 of 28 December 2004 on measures to protect against gender-based violence. The actions of public authorities are set up to guarantee the necessary support to seek the permanence of minors, regardless of their age, with their mother, as well as their protection, specialized care and recovery. Any form of violence exercised against a child is unjustifiable. Among them, as the statement of reasons of the norm says, it is uniquely atrocious to the violence suffered by those who live and grow in a family environment where gender violence is present. They live in this family environment and surely its effects are not exclusive during the years of life in which they consider themselves to be minor, but in many cases such atrocious conduct ends up persecuting the person for the rest of their life. The Union therefore recognizes minors as victims of gender-based violence and expands the protection situations in which minors may find themselves in charge of the female victim of gender-based violence. That's why articles of Organic Law 1/2004 have been amended and because of these amendments the law sets out in its first article to prevent, punish and eradicate this violence and provide assistance to women, increases their minor children and minors subject to their guardianship or custody and victims of this violence. In addition, he recognizes the right of self-defense for minors, stating that the judge must pronounce himself on his own will or the instance of the victims of the children, of the persons who live with them or are subject to their custody and custody. In this sense, Articles 65 and 66 establish the cases of the country's power of the visit regime. On the one hand, the judge may suspend for the accused of gender violence the exercise of the country's power, custody and custody, reception, guardianship, cure or guardianship in fact, in respect of the minors who depend on him, as well as he may order the suspension, as he proposed, of the regime of visits, stay, relationship and communication of the accused in the specific case of the minors who have experienced situations of gender violence. The situation of orphanhood is one of the causes of disappearance in which a minor may be found. The children who, as a result of gender-based violence from their parents, are orphaned, of course, deserve the utmost attention of the public authorities, which we must take over their guardianship, giving them adequate attention through the different resources and programmes of the child protection system and adolescence. The Galician Union has been acting in this direction for years to protect families who suffer from this reality. In the last ten years, six children's protection files have been opened because of gender-based violence with this particular cause. This, as you also well know, does not necessarily imply that behind the opening of other files does not match the situation of gender-based violence. Unfortunately, gender-based violence with minors exists, despite legislation, judicial measures and measures taken by the Administration. That's why we came to pass in October of the year 15 the decree defining the portfolio of social services, family and childhood and adolescence. It includes a specific support service for families living in situations of gender-based violence, a set of technical-professional interventions aimed at supporting families whose members are victims of gender-based violence in the entire process of overcoming the situation of violence, making available the necessary services and resources for achieving the restoration of the damage suffered and its full recovery, yet – and we must recognise it – in October of the year 15, despite the fact that we have been living with this scourge for many years. This is proof that in the Social Policy Council we do not forget the specific cases which you have reported in this inquiry. Ask me if you've got the Galician Deputy Administrative, Psychological, Legal, Legal and Specific Police Officer who takes care of these minors and their families throughout the proceedings since the mother's murder and who they are. The autonomic child protection system is made up of a set of personal media and organized materials that come into operation when the child's deprotection is detected. The Joint has the technical equipment of the minor, responsible for evaluation, intervention in helplessness and serious risk. These teams are multidisciplinary, composed of psychologists, educators, workers and social educators, who make their decisions collectively, thus complying with the guiding principle laid down in the regulation of childhood and adolescence. These teams are responsible for proposing protective measures, guardianship or guardianship, as well as for administering the programmes and looking for adequate child needs with existing resources to deal with these situations. Ask me what mechanisms and aids are made available to these minors or their families to help them and protect them. We have resources to detect deprotection, reception, adoption, support and additional resources. We don't want to ignore any of these elements. That's why, very briefly, I'll refer to each one of them. Detection resources. The Board has two specific notification instruments: the Child Help Line, 116 111, a free line that works for twenty-four hours, attended by professionals who provide the appropriate advice and immediately notify the relevant services in each of these areas, and unfortunately has many calls; in 2015, 1,242 calls, of which in 2015 8,94 % were made by minors. Secondly, the Unified Registry of Child Abuse (RUMI). Despite progress in reconciling the problem, there are still many hidden cases, which are detected through this unified log. You should not wait for the right evidence of mistreatment to report it. A simple suspicion must be enough to raise awareness of child care services. A common effort to detect and notify any child abuse situation is essential. Communications of suspicion of ill-treatment are immediately received in the technical team of the minor who has the Galician Union, which allows for immediate action. More than 2,000 law enforcement and education professionals have access to application. A second block, hosting resources. The family home. Well, look, it's evidence that there are families that have for a time to be deprived of their children or their daughters by behaviors like the ones you're reporting, which exist in our society, unfortunately. Family hospitality allows them to remain in their family environment; a reception because through grandparents, through as close relatives as possible. It has to be said that of all children of 1,022 who were welcomed the previous year, 87% were with their extended families, and 13% were accommodated in alien families, which is another resource that we are trying to empower to avoid the next resort, which is that of residential accommodation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u280	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u281	Then we also have adoption resources and support programmes, the family intervention programme. This programme serves annually 200 families and 375 minors, with an budget of 418,000 euros, 10% more than in 2015. The programme for the evaluation and treatment of children in situations of unemployment, currently 200 cases, to which we allocate EUR 161,920, 17% more than in 2015. The socio-educational program, with an investment of 161,000 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u283	... since this council provides 60,000. The mentor program, with an investment of 1,789,000 euros. And the family meeting points, an existing network with technical support in the seven main cities of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u284	Thank you, Counselor, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u285	That's what I can answer to the questions you ask in your inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u286	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Do you want to do it from the scene? Yes, reply, Mrs Iglesias. Give a voice to Mrs. Iglesias' chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u287	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for your answer, but frankly it seems to me insufficient and very technical for the questions I was asking you. We're talking about orphans and orphans and you end up speaking to me about a matter as if it were an appropriate measure when you refer to the meeting points. The meeting points, precisely, are a dangerous space and a space where orphans and orphans, where children and children who are victims of ill-treatment do not want to attend. It would precisely be one of the things that should be changed. You didn't answer me either, you answered me with figures, with statistics, with listening phones, but you didn't answer me with specific and urgent questions. For example, I do not answer if there is any economic fund in the specific and payment board – and I repeat – of immediate payment for the youngest orphans. Nor do you answer me to a subject that I consider very important and very urgent: if you have exemptions from the costs of procedures and the taxes of garbage, contributions, surpluses and other associated inheritances; if you paralyze these payments during the judicial process, because, Counsellor, another suffering for a child or child who is orphaned or orphaned, because his mother is murdered, it is that they separate her from her surroundings, that they remove her from her space, that the island from her mother's family. I think it's also very important. You have also not answered me to a question that I consider to be paramount: if psychological reports or forensic expertise can be regarded as evidence consistently or are left in a mere administrative process. You didn't answer me if you lost the right to widow the killer in favor of the minors. Nor did you question me if there was any measure to block the common accounts that the killer had with the murder. I ask these questions, despite the fact that some Members of the People's Party are kind of funny to me; of course they don't do anything to me and I think that society in general wouldn't make any fun of it. That demonstrates the lack of sensitivity with a problem, with such a great fact as ill-treatment of gender. That's the lack of respect for those who are and those who are talking about it as well. And I didn't mean to talk about the People's Party, but sometimes there's nothing else left to do, when they miss the speech of the Members of the opposition. Counsellor, I hope you answer the questions I put to you specifically, because the situation of an orphan or an orphan for gender violence... [[Murmurs.]] May I continue, Mr. President? Thank you very much. Well, I told you, Counselor, that the measures to be taken must have an urgent nature, they cannot be dilated in time, they cannot be pending bureaucratic procedures. Murdered woman, daughters and orphaned children, immediate measures: blocking the accounts of the killer, withdrawing from the homeland power. When there is a danger that a woman will be killed and her children will be orphaned, the meeting point will not take place. You can't afford that. And nothing else. I hope that now, in this second intervention, I will answer my questions to you, given the character that you have of urgency for these girls and these children, who are left alone, destitute, without the mother's help and naked and destitute by the administration. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u288	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Replica. Counselor. You can do it from here, in the gallery, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I was already ahead of you in my first intervention that would answer the questions that have to do with the competence of the Council of Galicia, right, showing that it's something intolerable. If gender violence is something intolerable, it's even more intolerable when it occurs in an area where there are minors. But look, on issues like some of the questions you raised, I tried to sum up the contests of the competences of the Galician Union, to account for all the devices, legal measures, technical measures, economic measures that the Galician Union has available to these families, at the disposal of these minors. Look, there are things, like the right of widowhood, things that have to do with orphanages, things that have to do with the blocking of accounts, which are not the competence of the Council of Galicia. So I can show myself entirely according to what you say, but this House can't be legislating about issues that are not within Galicia's competence or any autonomous community. So, I guess we'll soon open a new session in Madrid, which will be able to raise these interesting themes in Madrid, because here... well, I'm replying to you, I'm answering you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then, I say: orphaned payments, widower's rights, blocking accounts, listen, obviously State competence, not self-responsive. All the measures that the Autonomous Community can put in place, some of which you have referred to, are under way. I'm telling you, the last package of measures, unfortunately, has been underway since October 2015. So I think we're on a path. And with regard to some others, such as garbage taxes, surpluses and so on, it's not the responsibility of this House either. These taxes are liquidated by local authorities. So, hey!, I think it's much richer and much more interesting that we explain what Galicia can do in the field of its competences in the field of minors. And that's why we have legislation, and that's why we have actions to develop, and that's why the portfolio of social services, of family, childhood and adolescence, includes a specific service of support for families in which situations of violence are experienced, which is the first time that we have defined in the social services catalogue precisely this service. That we have the minor's technical equipment. That we have permanent information and advice phones, and that these phones, in addition to having them, are used. That we have the Unified Registry of Child Abuse. That we have the reception services: the family member, the residential accommodation. And that we have support programmes; within the support programmes, they only define the family meeting point as one more support programme, as one more support programme, without any intention of this program being able to serve so that no batter can visit any family; but, as you know, there is legislation and there is legal power, which is the one in each case to determine the authorizations for any kind of meeting. Therefore, in the field of coordination committees – I was also able to participate in the latest judicial development, between the Presidency Council and the Galician judges and prosecutors – the issue of minors has taken on several points, given that it needs to be increasingly a more important concern. So I appreciate everything that appears, all the questions that you ask. I can tell you that I am convinced that this whole House is fully involved in these cases, that of course these cases are not timely, but that, as I said in my first intervention, the effects of these cases last all the life of the person and that, therefore, all we can do must do and we must do it among all of us. Children for gender-based violence are a much more vulnerable victim. For us, really, it's our top priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u290	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government, and we begin with the question of Da Eva Solla Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left. Da Eva Solla Fernández, G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, about homophobic aggression suffered by a citizen in February 2016 in a commercial establishment of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u291	Thank you, President, I'm sorry. On February 8th, a homophobic assault took place in Compostela, in which a man was assaulted on the public highway, verbally and physically, and the facts which he and his couple subsequently went to denounce to the police station themselves are related on their own initiative. In addition to the aggression itself, well-reported in the initiative, in which they are described as the insults they suffered, as "maricón", "you will contaminate me," for besides receiving a fist and the victim was bleeding, both the victim and her partner had to bear a attention that, as they report, was not the most appropriate, and I pass it descriptively because it comes well described both in the complaint and in their own question. After calling the police, both the National Police and the Local Police came, which seems to be the last one that identified the aggressors, and they were then limited to calling the ambulance, according to the people who filed the complaint, and left them there alone. This led to the aggressors continuing to insult them for a while, for quite a while, until the assistance arrived. Before the question of why they left them abandoned or alone, without protection in this situation, the answer was whether they wanted to stay all night with them, by the National Police, or that's exactly what they denounce. The aggressors later tried to attack them, whenever the injured person was already being cared for at the continued attention point of Santiago de Compostela. Right now, these people came to the point of continuous attention, entered the CAP itself, and it had to be the health personnel that prevented a new aggression. The injured person, Antonio, ran through the corridors, hid himself in a consultation, and they had to call the center's own security, which was why he threw out or kicked the aggressors out of the center. They had to call back to the police, and then it came, without much more activity than being out of the center, because the aggressors were already outside the center. The reality is, in any question of why they allowed them to continue, so -- we said -- insulting them, because outside the center the aggressors continued to insult the people who were assaulted, the police said they couldn't do anything because there was no aggression in front of them. We want to ask you – and I'm done already – if you consider that Law 2/2014, of 14 April, is being complied with, for equal treatment and non-discrimination, and obviously what you will do in this situation of deprotection of two citizens, when they should be protected by forces and security bodies, in this case of the State, in that attention to this homophobic aggression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, first of all, refuse, as surely as you, your group and all Parliament, any aggression that brings about your cause incivism, violence against anyone, is conditional or because of your sexual orientation, your race and anything. I think we agree on that, and therefore, if we agree on it, we agree largely on the attitude that any person should have, and of course any administration, in the face of such an event. Of course, to wish – if not already – a prompt recovery to the man who was assaulted, both physically and psychologically. But, said this, hey, you ask me two specific questions. First, if you think the forces of order acted according to the protocols. First, who acted there, and you know it perfectly, because it is true that at the initiative a detailed description is made of the facts, based on the denunciation that the man assaulted and his partner put on, speaks of a series of circumstances and a series of valuations from his point of view, and it's true, because to answer the question I asked for the National Police's statement – I don't know if you did – there's a different version. So, look, I'm not going to make a judge, as you often ask the Galician Council to do, because, besides, there's a complaint and so you'll have to be a judge who says if the forces of order acted or didn't act properly. In any case, if what you want is an assessment of those responsible for the action of the National Police, because I would have to do it – I don't know if you, I don't know, and if you did, I ask you to forgive me and I also ask you to correct me – this initiative was presented also at the Congress of Deputies, because you have Members and Members, and you could interview those responsible for these state security forces and bodies, which is not the Council of Galicia. I don't even know if they asked this at the Compostela Town Hall, where you rule, and where you also say local police forces were present. I don't know if he did, I suppose he didn't, but he comes to ask the Galician Council and tells him to judge on the performance of the forces and bodies of security. I won't. That's what Justice is for. I tell you many times, even if you don't want to hear it. And with regard to the question of whether you acted properly, according to the protocols of the Law of 2014, just tell you that I love and I'm glad that you are now beginning to see useful to that law. I regret that I did not support it, as did the other opposition groups and the Government group, and that I simply said it was a law made to give press headlines. I'm glad, at last, and welcome to see that this law was really useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u294	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u295	It's seen that you can't ask a question and get an answer being correct, because the truth is that I tried to make a description of the content, I didn't put myself into anything at all, and yet you used it because the argument of... well, it got into things that shouldn't be done, and use politically this matter. Obviously, we asked the National Police why the problem was, as the plaintiffs describe, with the National Police, and not with the Local Police, which, as I told you, was the one that identified the aggressors. And, therefore, we have to ask here because you're the most responsible person in Galicia. Obviously, we can also ask, if we want, about Congress, but you have the responsibility to answer us. Look, we didn't support the law because we knew we weren't going to have an application, because you didn't mean it, and here we have a sample. We asked about the protocol. I'd like you to take this opportunity to explain to us what the protocol is, and we're not asking you what's going to happen in that trial, which we'll see what happens. We're asking you about your political responsibility, because you're the adviser and vice president, and you have responsibility for what happens in the Interior case, and the National Police in this case. We are in a situation where, firstly, we do not know what protocol they have to follow; secondly, the law specifies – Article 11 of Chapter I, Assistance Measures – that the Council of Galicia may enable, in addition, measures for victims. We don't know what you're going to do with this, this chapter is about the police field, and therefore in the law itself it is recognised that obviously – as it cannot be otherwise – you have competences. And Article 10 is on training plans for the Galician Academy of Public Safety. It would be good if you used to tell us what protocol there is, what they did in training, if they're going to assist these people, and obviously, how you value them, to give yourself trueness to these facts, if you are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u297	I'm deeply sorry that you use this to make politics. You can see they're in the campaign...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u298	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u299	...and even with this delicate case you have to get into that mud.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u300	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close to Mr. Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Solla, see if I can make it clear. You ask this question, bring the Government of Galicia to answer about this case. I give him an answer and he accuses me that my arguments are based on politics. And you don't do politics bringing me here to answer this question? I don't understand anything at all, it doesn't politically use a fact that has two versions. And I don't have to question, or much less, the version of the man who was assaulted, but I don't have to question – for that reason the judges – the version of the police, who said that the hate protocol was not activated because the circumstances were not given. And you say I do politics and you don't do politics by saying everything you do. This is the world backwards, Mrs Solla, absolutely the world upside down. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Having said all this, you – I'm sorry – have a brutal confusion. The Galician Union has no jurisdiction over the conduct of the National Police. I suppose you didn't know that, so you don't ask the Congress who are responsible for the National Police; not about your actions that are inappropriate to law, because -- I insist -- for that are the judges, but yes about your performance in general. That's what the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for. You skip the legal order, you change it to your convenience to ask a question here, and tell me that, as the Home Councillor, I have the responsibilities for what the National Police do in any case. That's your simple world where everything goes to base your arguments, have some sustenance or not. And in this case, Mrs. Solla, you have absolutely none. But -- I'll say it again -- this question is for you to realize that the law is good for something. I'm sorry that you didn't realize at the time of voting, I'm sorry that at that time you didn't see that it was useful and that you could help people who had come to this situation and in general all those who struggle for a world on equal terms, which is why we all fight, including -- I suppose -- those who when there is a law that defends this, take it and do not support it and then appeal to the law to explain to you what we're doing. And I'm going to explain it because I suppose that, as I didn't agree with the passing of the law, after he gave it whatever he was doing. Look, do you know what's been done since the law's in effect? I'm going to read – there's a list and it doesn't give me much time – the most important: health care has been guaranteed and the provision of hormone therapies to transsexual people; sexual education and prevention campaigns for sexually transmitted diseases targeted at youth; programming of training activities to health care workers on affective-sexual diversity; setting up an order of aid to LGTBI associations that develop activities to promote and defend the rights and interests of gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersexual; establishing a network of proximity counselling for people located in the more than 80 CIMs of Galicia; providing courses at the Galician Academy of Public Security in the field of equality, gender violence and non-discrimination, where attention is specifically collected to the people of this collective; also holding on the EGAP of trips open to all public security personnel on these realities. All this in a scarce year – it does not reach two years – of law supervision. I suppose those who didn't support the law also care little about the things they did to develop it. What matters to you is to make politics with these things and to accuse others of doing politics when we came here to answer the things that have been done. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u302	Thank you, Vice President. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. Galego Nationalist Block, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the demand to the Ministry of Defence for the paralysis of the pox of three plots located in the Camp da Estrada, in Maestranza, in the city of Coruña, scheduled for April 27
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u303	Question by Mr. Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u304	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Vice-President, the object of this question is to know the opinion of the Galician Union on a curious decision of a government in functions; a government in functions that is neither expected nor expected for other matters but yes to give the Ence with the stream of Pontevedra or speculate with our heritage. I refer to the announcement by the Ministry of Defence to submit to the post three plots of the Road Camp, in the Coruña, some 30,000 square meters by which it intends to enter nearly 25 million euros. These lands were communal, were occupied by absolutist monarchies for the construction of military facilities and later enjoyed by that Ministry of War. Even if it's a question that undermines the scope of the Union's competence, we think it's logical for the Greek Government to have an opinion on these types of operations. But, in addition, this operation affects the preservation of our heritage, Mr Rueda. In the lands of the Road Field was first built the defensive system of the walls; then, in the eighteenth century, the Royal Maestranza; and then, in the 19th, the Atocha barracks. They are therefore located in the field of protection of cultural goods of high heritage value. The medieval defensive system and the baroque defensive system of the city of Coruña, both systems, are defined as BIC of the catalog of buildings and sets of the PEPRI of the Old City and the Fishery. The walls were declared BIC of the historical-artistic set by decree of the Council of Education and Culture. And the existence of archaeological remains of this entire defensive system would require, for any kind of action, the corresponding authorization of the Galician Union Heritage Directorate General. Look, Mr Rueda, fortunately the question that has now been debated has been lost in the immediate future. The popular mobilization and the lack of buyers made it a waste of time that the Ministry of Defence intended to do today. But the Ministry of Defence can opt for a second bid, or it can opt for direct adjudication of the real estate to any buyer who manifests interest. That's why, Mr. Rueda, are you going to force the Gaulza Board to paralyze the pox? Will you demand the transfer of these lands so that they remain in the public heritage and therefore be lands for public enjoyment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u305	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, you know the German Government, I think we all know the circumstances of these goods, both of the part which was handed over by the Ministry of Defence to the Town Hall of the Crown at its moment and of those which were now the object of the posse. I suppose they also knew each other when a socialist defence ministry and a socialist council made an agreement that said exactly what was going on with this posse. That must also be told, because it seems to be a decision of the Ministry of Defence, of the PP, in functions but which is executing the decision of a Ministry of Defence of the Socialist Party, which was not in office, and which reached an agreement with a socialist council that was not in office either. So I think, if we have to tell things, we have to count them from the beginning to the end, because things always have their cause and it's not just how they end up. It is, above all, as they begin, that is how many other things are explained. And, said this, I can't accuse you of not raising this issue at the Congress of Deputies. You can't, so you couldn't think about it. I don't know if they could, but they can't. And plant it here. But here I have to tell you the same thing, you know we don't have skills. The Galician Union cannot tell the Council of the Coruña, ruled by the Tides – which I know – and the Ministry of Defence – that it is another administration, even though it is governed by the PP, as you say, in functions – that they paralyze a post that brings cause of an agreement between two socialist governments. We couldn't say it at that time if we were when it woke up, and of course we can't say it now either. In any case it is true that you bring the question now and could have brought it up long before. Bring her to this plenary as she could have come to another plenary before. And at that time the posses would not have been produced and they would not have declared themselves deserted, as it actually took place this morning. So you decide when to bring the question. Tell me it doesn't bring cause anymore. Well, listen, two weeks ago or a month ago, I'd still bring cause, and if what you're asking is to intervene, because you'd have a lot more reason than now that it's already happened, and actually, what's left open is the ground for negotiation. Listen, the Socialist Party itself in the motion that was in the Council of the Crown – and you think you know it – did not support the free transfer because you know that the legal order does not allow a free assignment. It will allow the transfer to be negotiated, I suppose that's what the municipal government of the Coruña will do now with the Ministry of Defence. I see you don't have too much confidence in what the mayor of the Crown can do and come and ask for the intervention of the Galician Union. But I'm telling you here, with the legal system and the political capacities of each one, we're going to give you a vote of confidence. The municipal group of the People's Party gave him that vote of confidence and abstained from the initiative. He said the mayor of the Coruña had been negotiating this issue to the Ministry of Defence. It seems to be –the news you transmit through this initiative, waiting for the three deserted puddles to occur – that should not have much confidence that the intercession, the political action of the mayor of the Crown, will come to no end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u307	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Jorquera's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u308	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Rueda, we're already very used to the German Government justifying its incompetence by saying that it has no competence. Look, it's obvious that Mr. Francisco Vázquez has a responsibility, he doesn't have to convince us of that. Neither that lord nor his policies have ever been holy to our devotion. But the German Government can mediate and express opinions, because we're also talking about issues that also affect autonomous competences. Does the Galician Union have no powers in the field of heritage? Don't you have skills in urbanism? Does it seem good to you that the Central Government is planning to strip us off, Mr. Rueda? Because, look, we're talking about land that was communal. Already in 1858 the Town Hall of Coruña called for its return. And since you mention that you can't give in, look, Barcelona has two emblematic spaces, like the Parc de la Citadella and the Montjuic mountain, which were military spaces that were given to the city. Madrid claims to be one of the cities of Europe with more parks thanks to which Crown properties or old royal hunting costs, such as the Casa de Campo or Retiro Park, were donated to the people of Madrid. Or didn't you know, Mr. Rueda? And in the meantime in Galicia, the Ministry of the Interior refused to hand over the old prison to the city of Coruña, and the Union had to pay for the building of the Military Hospital. And the Ministry of Defence, instead of reverting to public use, to the enjoyment of all, the lands of which it has acquired, intends to give urban plots with land that are part of our heritage, Mr Rueda. Look, do you think it makes sense that Defense acts like a real estate dedicated to speculation? Answer it, Counselor. If not, he once exercises as a government of this country and opposes this policeman, because the Ministry of Defence intends to expolate us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u309	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Shut up. Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, I'll say it again. I know you don't like listening. Listen, if this is a cop, it's a signed policeman – I suppose at that moment with light and tachographs – for the same party you'd try to rule to clear the PP, or not? Tell the Socialist Party that this was signed by two socialist administrations. And all that was there, if he was a policeman, he was already a policeman at that time. Look, this isn't a question... here are members of the socialist corporation. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if they were at that time, but, of course, you can tell him that all this after no time they criticized him. And the Town Hall of Coruña was benefiting – and I don't have to come here to defend, but it seems that yes, what Mr. Vázquez agreed at that time – from a series of buildings that the Ministry of Defence gave him on the basis of that agreement you now call it a policeman. I don't know if you, while they were being used for public use by the neighbours and neighbours of the Crown all those spaces and buildings that were being transferred, I'd say the convention they brought about was a policeman, as you're saying now. Well, if I said it, I didn't say it very loudly, honestly, and I didn't tell your fellow socialists, I can assure you. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're asking here to solve the lack of negotiating capacity of the mayor of the Crown, which is what the municipal corporation has charged with trying to reach an agreement with the Ministry of Defence. That's what you've been given, and -- I insist -- it shouldn't have worked out much when what you come to say is whether the Galician Union can help you. I suppose because you realize that the Council of Galicia does know how to negotiate these things. Hey, we've just been handed over the building of the old General Hospital to go back to public use. Well, maybe we have a good negotiating capacity. That might well be that we realize that there's a frame, which is the legal order, where you can ask for things according to what you're signed, always and when you're right about what you're asking for. Mr. Losada, as Vigo's mayor didn't intervene in this, I know you're upset. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] But, Mr. Losada, you can get things, without the mayor of Vigo speaking, in Vigo, I can assure you. [[Murmurs.]] I know you're upset, I know you're upset, but it's possible, and I hope they don't spoil it at the last minute. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, this is not a matter of political will, it's a matter of legal order, too. And the fact that also the socialist municipal group in the Coruña – I suppose with good discretion – had said that the free assignment was not possible is a message, it is a charge, to the mayor of the Coruña so he can negotiate it. And I hope you succeed, I sincerely wish you, because in the end it is an agreement between administrations, like the agreement we have reached. But to try to replace that by urban arguments, saying that Junta... listen, if there's an urban problem and there can't be that operation, the Town Hall of the Crown, the Mayor of the Crown, why don't you say there's an urban impediment and nothing can be done? He didn't say it, there should be a legal report from the secretary or the intervener, from the legal technicians of the Council of the Crown, who said it's not possible and that illegality is being committed. There isn't because it can't be. Just like with respect to archaeological remains you know, as I do, that the only thing the Town Hall of the Crown has said is that there is archaeological potential. In no case does it, according to PEPRI, give the Directorate General for the Heritage of Galician Union to paralyze any pox. First, the Town Hall of Coruña has to move politically, I see it's not capable; it has to move legally, I suppose it can't. And in the end, as he can do nothing, as always, to see if he manages it to the Galician Union, which arranges a lot of things but which, frankly, does not have competence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u311	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Hippolytus Sobrino Flours and seven others from G.P. Galician people, on the balance sheet of the Council of Economics, Employment and Industry on the impact on the Greek economy of the measures of the Strategy for Internationalisation of the Galician Company 2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u312	Mr. Arias Veira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, really the central objective of the People's Party, one of the central objectives, since 2009, has been to face and act as an economic alternative. So the goal is to conquer a recovery... [[Murmurs.]] I repeat. Our central goal, since we took possession, since we won the 2009 elections, in which we have encountered an economic crisis, both by the identity signs of the People's Party and by the situation, was economic revival, economic recovery; the objective that has remained in the 2012 elections and also in the 2011 general elections; that is, we are talking about one of the central axes of the People's Party's policy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Here in Galicia, if we found a situation of economic crisis, we found ourselves in a vicious circle of crisis and depression, because consumption fell, tax revenues fell, investment fell and unemployment increased, that is, the perfect storm. That's what we had to deal with. So one of the strategic elements of our policy, one of the elements of our policy – which I'm even trying to place the point problem in the general context of our policy to underline its importance, its strategic value – was to relaunch exports. In other words, the external sector was the fundamental element or element of our economic strategy and, therefore, to regain social well-being for our people and to face the system of indebtedness. This was a very difficult task, fundamentally very difficult because of the situation here. But we, even by philosophy, not only for economic interest, that philosophy by which we conceived a Galicia as an opening, that is, our philosophy is not only a commodity situation, but a situation of cultural exchange, of social exchange, of opening up ideas, we ask this question about how is the export situation, the situation of the outside, that is, this strategic project of opening outwards from the Galician Union in the area where you are responsible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u314	Thank you very much, Mr Arias. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u315	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Arias, I really appreciate that we are talking about economic recovery. The opposition does not want, the opposition, whenever we talk about an economic model for Galicia, whenever we talk about industrial policy, whenever we want to talk about innovation policy, because we don't want to talk about these issues. But indeed, since 2009, the Government has been developing a new production model for Galicia based on innovation, but also based on that vision of openness and on the ability of our companies to gain international markets and, therefore, so that through exports we can consolidate this production model in Galicia. The balance we can take to this House from action on internationalisation is really positive. Galicia is witnessing the most important export cycle of its entire history in this legislation. And in 2015, the volume of exports exceeded €18 billion, which meant a 5.6% increase over the year 2014; but the most important thing is that we exceeded the historical brand, which was in 2013 at 0.4%. But this trend continues, and the data, both from January and February, point out that community exports continue to increase by 7% over the same period of 2015; therefore, it is proving that the behavior of our productive fabric is really positive and the capacity of our companies is really important to gain markets. But if you ask me for a data that marks this distinguishing element, I would also focus on the volume of exporting companies that are participating in this process. The really important thing is that regular exporting companies are growing by 2.3 per cent. At this point, 35% of our exporting companies do it in a regular way, above the national average, and that marks that internationalization is already part of the DNA of our productive tissue. This is a very clear roadmap, with concrete measures by the Government, which is supporting our productive fabric from the first idea of export to the promotion itself, sale on the ground or installation of subsidiaries and offices in other countries. And it's proving that our companies are creating value and that our companies are also taking the flag of Galicia proudly to the main markets in the world. It is a path that is not going back, which is taking us firmly to achieve these objectives in terms of internationalization, increasing exports by 25% on the horizon of 2020, and consolidating our productive fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u316	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u317	Unquestionably, that kind of figure, i.e. the general figures, 25% of the increase, with all the thousands of companies that are now assembled, logically has an explanatory capacity of elements of prosperity that are now being given. That is, we are in that process, indeed, of a path of recovery that has not been attended at any other time since the economic crisis, that this is the great novelty, the explanatory novelty. There's another factor, anyway, so I would ask you, because you know that the opposition censures that all this capacity and potential exporter has nothing to do with the economic action and the management action of the Galician Union, the management action of the People's Party, or its economic model. It takes courage to say that an internal devaluation, a brutal drop of wages, an overexploitation, is the key to the economic model that we are witnessing. So I'd like to know if you can refute that thesis, if you can identify countries with lower wage levels than Galicia where we are actually exporting. That would reveal that export is capacity, invention, innovation, competitiveness; that is, even if other countries that are technologically more advanced than we are also the object of market penetration, because it would imply that our technology levels are at least able to enter these markets. Finally, I would ask you if you can give us information on the geographic banana of exports, what kind of countries, what types of sectors, where we are going. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u318	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Arias, in fact, the behaviour our companies have in different markets is really positive. Since 2009 the growth in exports has increased by 35% in the whole of the Greek economy, and that 35% is even small when we analyze target markets, key markets, for our economy, where our productive fabric is having an important penetration. We're talking about countries like China or Russia, where our sales grew by 307% and 45% compared to 2009. But we can also talk about countries like the United Kingdom, where that growth was 161%, from 420 million euros of exports in 2009 to more than 1 billion euros in 2015. Latin America is also having very positive behavior in our exports: in Mexico they grew by 75% and in Colombia by 59%. Ultimately, very positive behavior in different markets, even in those markets that technologically have a very important component. And that export effort of our productive tissue is responding to that diversification capacity that our economy is demonstrating. That capacity for diversification is directly related to that industrial policy, that innovation policy, which we are promoting. The Government is focusing its performance on small and medium-sized enterprises. Because small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones that have a greater difficulty in having a solid internationalization structure as large companies can have. And there we are offering all our support to these small and medium-sized enterprises through different instruments, through recruitment of internationalization managers, allowing instruments to support internationalization, such as Galicia Export, and also the work that is developing the Pexga itself in collaboration with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, which is proving to be very positive. Finally, we are helping our productive fabric to consolidate that positive evolution. I am convinced, Mr Arias, that within a decade we will talk about these years of crisis, such as the moment when the economy of Greece, innovating and leaving abroad, has changed forever. It's, of course, the moment that our companies and our social capital, together with the Galician Union, are moving in the same direction and we're turning a Galicia that thinks locally into a Galicia that thinks globally and therefore a more competitive Galician. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the development of the Plan Pexga
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I'm amazed. I'm sure in a few decades we'll remember this new Roosevelt and this new dealership in Galicia. I'm almost sure of that. Look, I'm very glad that today, after 100 days of being elected, you and the president of the Galician Union have met with the new president of the Confederation of Entrepreneurs. It's true that he wasn't the candidate for the Board, and that's why the former president of the Confederation of Entrepreneurs met with him just two weeks after he was elected. But, of course, it's a pure agenda accident. You certainly know, Counselor, the book of Acemoglu and Robinson about why countries fail, about those extractive elites where economic agents and political power are bound, right? I'm sure you know him because I think we've already exchanged views on the subject on another occasion. There are two key vectors in the political, ideological and economic discourse on the right. The first is obvious – and in the case of his counseling and in the case of the Igape, which is the driving agent of the Pexga, manifest – which is the outsourcing process. Maybe it's Price Waterhouse Cooper, whether KPMG or the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs with this plan. It's pure and simple to replace the officials, the public workers of the Igape, who carried, in addition, a capital accumulated for years. I insist, I don't care whether it's CEG or whether it's consultants, consultants that allow you to get out of the photos of Investors day: think in Galicia, that we all know it's part of that new deal for decades to come. This is the first question. This is the first question that means the absolute dismantling of the Igape, without any doubt. And it's enough to see both the budgets and the levels of execution. The second has to do with the strictly economic discourse, the speech is always to let the market work. But then it's always about acting on economic agents since politics. And the example of the Galician Confederation of Entrepreneurs and Pontevedra is paradigmatic. You know perfectly well that the executive agent of the Pexga, and also the election of the leadership of these two employers' confederations, were absolutely, say, influenced, or with an attempt to influence, by the Greek Government in the elective processes. He knows some of them are on trial. He knows that another is being harassed and completely intolerable. I'm not going to be here for the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, but, of course, the use... -Yes, yes, I don't know if there's any problem? - by the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs Board as a political control tool for the service of the People's Party is being so manifest and so intolerable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u322	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u323	...that leads purely and simply to reward...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u324	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u325	...to the good and to punish the bad, which is the Catechism of the Father Astete, as you well know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u326	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand perfectly well that you do not come to this House to defend the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs because it constantly charges against the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs through the different collaborations that this government is pushing. I do, because I, Mr. Losada, and this government, what we need is precisely a Confederation of Galician entrepreneurs that is strong and a Confederation of Galician entrepreneurs who have that ability to act and promote initiatives with the Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Mr. Losada, I think you're confused. We're in Parliament, this isn't a tertulia. And, therefore, I think we've come here to have a political debate. And what I can't allow you is that you try to transfer that this government has any kind of political interference in the operation of the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. I can't afford it in any case. This government at all times is acting deeply with respect to the autonomy of the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, a respect both of its management autonomy and of its autonomy as an economic and social interlocutor. And that means this government is collaborating with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. And, as far as you're talking about outsourcing, this government strictly speaking is public-private collaboration. Indeed, this government is collaborating with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs in the various performances and particularly in its performance in the international arena. And that doesn't mean, logically, that the Galician Union has to assume its responsibilities when it comes to any kind of question related to the management of public money. So in that agreement that we have signed with the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs, in the usual processing of such agreements, if there is any kind of breach of that agreement, we apply it, and when the agreement is logically complied with, we also give it continuity. So, Mr Losada, we are in Parliament, we are going to transfer specific issues, and I do not allow you to try to transfer that this government has any kind of political interference in the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u329	Counselor, you'll have to let us. Look, you're going to have to allow me the calls of the Vice President of the Board, the President of the Board and yourself to people who had the right to vote in the elections of the Confederation of Entrepreneurs of Pontevedra and the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs; elections in which there were 261 votes and 251 registered. [[Murmurs.]] Is that just the quality of democracy? Listen, it's not a tertulia, of course not. Indeed, it is a place where the Government has to respond to absolutely regrettable practices of its own time. And you know why I tell you this? Look, I'm telling you, because at the moment, I actually assumed that 18 million euros of public money had been granted without knowing technical reports or technical supplies of any kind to the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs because it was chaired by a friend of the People's Party. And he continued another friend of the People's Party and there was absolutely no economic problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Socialist Party asked for reports made, expenses settlement sheets, expenses justification, employment contracts and legal advice reports. And none of that has been provided to us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And when there's elections and winning the candidate who doesn't support the PP, the money guards show up. Counselor, I don't know if this is a truce, what am I not an imbecile or, at least, not too much, okay? So this is the sequence. [[Laughter]] And tell me if I said anything that's fake. –Yes, well, let's see. – Eighteen million euros signed, and I don't say there were no technical reports, I say they didn't provide them. [[Murmurs.]] Just like the contracts with Mr. Dorado's companies. I don't know if there were floods here too. They didn't provide us. And then the expenses justifications, which they didn't provide either. With Mr. Fontenla and Mr. Alvarino, everything seemed to be going well, and they were discovered just a month after he won who had not, among other things, "to win" all the breakthroughs in Plan Pexga. Hey, but you really think it's gonna happen in the decades...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u330	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u331	...with the new Deal? And, by the way,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u332	Thank you, Mr. Losada. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u333	Mr. Feijóo said, "The CEG is not an example of organization and operation." Do you know when? Three days after you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u334	Thank you, Mr. Losada, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u335	...Moure Arean had won the presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u336	Thank you. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u337	I insist, Mr. Losada, that you and the Socialist Party of Galicia try to turn this Parliament into a truce. I've moved him, and I'm moving him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u338	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u339	This is the Socialist Party of Galicia, unfortunately. [[Murmurs.]] I'll move...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u340	Sorry, quiet. Quiet. Let the counsellor answer. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Gallego, please! We're finishing up now. A little bit of respect for who is in the use of the word. You were counsellor, you were counsellor, therefore, a bit of respect to who is in the use of the word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u341	Mr. Losada, I would like to convey you with total force: this government, and particularly this adviser, did not do any kind of political interference in the management of the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs. So I invite you to withdraw the charge you intend to transfer from political interference. In any case, your political responsibility is that you will have to assume yourself from a political point of view, logically. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] In any case, you know, because I've already had the opportunity to answer different questions about the Pexga Convention, that the actual execution of that agreement, which was initially endowed – and so on – with 18 million euros, did not exceed just 7 million euros. You know it perfectly well, Mr. Losada. So a little bit of rigour when we talk about this kind of approach. I'm sure you'll share with me and with this government that the Igape must not take any kind of expense that is not eligible for any agreement, whether from the Confederation of Galician Entrepreneurs or from any other institution. Therefore, the Igape, with regard to this agreement, is acting, defending the general interests, defending every euro that emerges from the taxes of the Greeks. You know that these agreements have their ordinary procedure, and I invite you -- I insist -- to withdraw references to political interference from the government first. And secondly, I really invite you to turn this House into a debate with rigour and politics. This isn't, Mr. Losada, a tertulia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u342	Thank you. Question by Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo and Mr. Abel Fermin Losada Álvarez of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Greece regarding the current compliance with the conditions of the administrative concession granted to the adjudictariat company of the facilities and equipment of the former arms factory of Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u343	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u344	Counsellor, it shouldn't be a tertulia, but I used to be listening respectfully to your colleague, the vice president, and what he was talking about was like a tertulian. Look, Counselor, I want to talk to you about what we've been talking about here on different occasions and that's going to be a classic: the Coruña weapons factory. The last time I asked you about this, I think it was November 2014, and that day you told me that the concessionary company was solvency and in the future, and told this humble deputy that he had no rigour, that he was making trouble and that he was causing confusion. A few weeks ago in the Committee on Industry of this Parliament, the initiative of its group, a motion to support the situation of the arms factory was put to the vote. I stress that this group voted in favour of this proposal by the People's Party, despite the fact that it was an empty proposal of content and the fact that it was an uncompromising proposal. With the legitimacy of being here with all this every day, when you tell me there's a lack of rigour and all this, I ask you, do you know the current situation of the factory? Are they meeting the conditions of the concession? Do you know, you're a labour relations holder, that there are harmful situations for workers? Do you support compliance or failure to comply with the investment plan? Do you support failure to comply with R & D initiatives and employment commitments? And if not, what are you going to do? I illustrate him so he won't say that I'm speaking without rigor. I illustrate him, Counselor, and I tell him that at present the factory, which should have half its production in arms, is not having any production of weapons. We inform you that the company does not pay the shares of Social Security, which already accounts for half a million euros. I inform you that he does not pay wages to the workers, who have hired them in part time or in training, but without charge. Let us inform you that it does not pay the supplier companies. Let me inform you that he does not pay the concession fee. Counselor, the company is not solvent, we've already told you from the very first moment, the company doesn't meet the commitments. You supported the concession to an ad hoc-created company with no social capital and no guarantees. But you knew all this from the beginning. They were warned, they were warned by the workers and this subject was debated here; as the Ministry of Defence had known since the first minute, but it was of interest to them. What is it, the model you're preaching every day from Company 4.0? Is that the business model that you support? Is that the model of administrative concession on which the new paradigm of growth will be built in Galicia? Counsellor, of course, this is not a subject of stubbornness, it's a very serious matter, and you have a responsibility here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u345	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u346	Mr. Méndez Romeo, I will cordially tell you: you and the Socialist Party only remember Santa Barbara when it falls, and every time we have a pre-election period it turns out that you bring here the situation of the weapons factory. I am grateful to you that, in fact, you bring a situation that concerns this government, which this government is dealing with, but I think that the debate must have a minimum rigour, it has to stick to reality... The principle of legality must be applied and also institutional respect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I think you don't like the Socialist Party, president, speaking here about realities, legality and responsibility. He doesn't like it, but that's really what they're asking me. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, I and this government the responsibility we assume is logically to do everything possible for the weapons factory to continue its activity. I'll give you a little memory, if you'll excuse me, because when the gun factory problem came up you know that this government did everything it could to keep General Dynamics going. And when that was not possible, this government did everything possible so that the Ministry of Defence could bid the facilities and, therefore, if it could help an industrial project. The Council of Galicia, in the wake of its competences, is now following this development of the business project that the Ministry of Defence has assisted, and logically we are in contact with the Ministry of Defence so that the commitments linked to this tender can be met. But you know perfectly well what this government's competence is and you know perfectly well from that invitation to tender to the Ministry of Defence, that there is a follow-up commission and that the Galician Union does not participate in that follow-up commission. So I think you shouldn't be confused, because this very thing that I'm telling you is what I tell you in your parliamentary group, the mayor of the Crown, exactly the same, because this government is collaborating with the Ministry of Defence, is collaborating with the Town Hall of the Crown and is collaborating with all the agents who will allow them to continue with these facilities. But we, Your Honor, will continue to respect legality and we will continue to respect the competences of each administration, so I can loudly tell you that we cannot deliver the facilities of the weapons factory to anyone, we cannot do so, and we cannot commit public money to a project that is not real and that is not viable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u347	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u348	With all courtesy, Counselor, you are insolvent. Do you know how many initiatives this Member has put forward on the Coruña arms factory in this legislation? Twenty-two, in the legislation. I have a lot of answers from his office, which, by the way, say nothing. You, Counselor, must realize that enduring the mistake does not lead anywhere, nor does it here in the weapons factory. You have been wrong about the concession, and this has been repeatedly exposed to you by the workers, repeatedly by the trade union organizations, who have met with you over and over again, and yet you have not acted. You know that the situation of this company is so grotesque that when you received the concession and you supported it you said it would be the heart of Galicia's future R & D, and it never happened to be a chiringuit, Counsellor, and you are aware of this. You have timely information, as is the Ministry of Defence, as is the Social Security Treasury, as is the Government's Delegation, and as is the Ministry of Defence. Everything, useless. The company does not produce, the company does not pay the suppliers and the company does not pay the workers. But you don't want to investigate. You are tolerating work irregularities, labour relations depend on you, you are tolerating wage-free recruitment and fraud in training contracts, and this would be another serial to talk about. Is that your business relations policy? First they ruined wages, then the public services, then the Social Security and now they're proposing to work without wages. Is that the model of the future? Mr. President, Counsellor, these are worse conditions than those that caused the birth of the worker movement. You're going to have to read the Communist Manifesto again to understand how the workers are living today. What turbid commitments do you have with that company, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u349	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u350	What interests prevent the Ministry of Defence from acting? Are they causing the conditions for urban speculation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u351	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u352	Will you do something, Mr. Counsellor, you, in half, jointly or according to the Ministry of Defence?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u353	Thank you. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u354	I regret, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that he had misplaced to move these kinds of questions. First of all, I have to tell you that you should correct your intervention, because this government was not wrong in granting since this government did not make any adjudication. It sounds like a lie that comes here to confuse. The land is owned by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence calls for tenders and the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Defence is responsible for the follow-up commission. So, a little bit of truth in your intervention because you're just trying to confuse. Just like you're trying to confuse yourself when you want to come here and talk about urban speculation. [[Applause]] But what do you mean, Mr. Méndez Romeo? You talk to your mayor of the Crown, because this government has no connection to the land of the weapons factory. So this government is just to help industrial development, and it's just to help the factory with industrial activity, nothing more. You'll know the interests that you and your group have when they come here to confuse people. But anyway, I... [[Murmurs.]] If we are here to respect the legality, to respect the institutions, you seem not, but, Mr. Méndez Romeo, to question that this government also does not assume its responsibility and its competences I already understand that it is the last because, Mr. Méndez Romeo, we are acting in the labour force and we are monitoring the fulfilment of the obligations of the workers, and we are doing so, in the first place – and you know –, making the Mediation Service, Arbitration and Reconciliation available, and also taking into account all the complaints presented before the Labour Inspectorate. And don't have the slightest doubt, Mr. Méndez Romeo, that we will always act with constancy, with absolute constancy, when commitments are made to the workers, and, of course, this government will sanction if any kind of breach of work is confirmed. Therefore, Mr. Méndez Romeo, pray to legality, pray to truth, do not confuse and leave the Holy Bárbara, because you only remember Santa Bárbara when elections come. [[Mr. Méndez Romeo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u355	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Pedro Manuel Arias Veira and seven other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia on the Supreme Court ruling on the annulment of the 2008 wind competition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u356	Mr. President. Mr. Conde, we want to ask about a central issue, very important. Here we already know that the Bipartite – this has its origins in the Bipartite – has spent three years without being able to draw up a legal wind competition, that there is a whole conflict between the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego, at a given time, in addition to a set of systematic resources by affected parties that has made this party, this parliamentary group that supports this party, makes the decision and undertakes itself electorally to review the wind competition, to derogate it and to do it again. This is what you do. In 2009, a new wind competition was held, new bases were met, all consultations were held, and this was considered to have been a legal decision. However, we have continuously experienced, not only in the previous legislature, but also in this legislature, accusations by the opposition that, under certain partial decisions, partial courts on different aspects of the subject have caused confusion, giving the impression that the wind competition that this executive has made is illegal or not. When we have seen a ruling from the Supreme Court validating this appeal, here is the fundamental question you are asked as planning the legal state of the wind competition is: Is it legal? Does this mean that this closes, causes state and is already the last decision regarding the validation of the People's Party's wind competition? I mean, does this Supreme Court judgment already remove all kind of uncertainty? Clarifies the situation?, does it cause a state?, is it a firm sentence? What are the consequences for the legality and future operation of the wind sector? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u357	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Arias, I very much appreciate the initiative of the People's Group and, if I may, I will logically extend how it could not be otherwise, but also in a particular way, my answer to the other parliamentary groups because this government has had to attend and will logically continue to attend many interpelerations and questions by the opposition on the wind sector. And what a coincidence that when there is a very important judgement for Galicia, which is very important for the consolidation of the wind sector, the opposition disappears; it seems to him that he does not want to talk about the resolution by the Supreme Court; he does not seem to care about the general interests of the opposition groups. That's why I appreciate the intervention of the People's Group. [[Applause]] With regard to the Supreme Court's ruling, I must say that it is indeed a very important saying because it endorses the decision this government made in 2009 on the annulment of the Bipartite wind competition. And the Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen, points out that this decision was made in accordance with law and law. And I also reflect that at no time, ladies and gentlemen, there was a deviation of power, reflected by the Supreme Court. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is one step further within the commitment of this government to provide legal certainty to the wind sector and to continue to take steps so that this wind plan can be developed in Galicia under Law 8/2009, which we have approved. And besides, this decision, ladies and gentlemen, prevents the Galician Council from also having to pay significant compensation to the firms that proved to be adjudicate of that Bipartite-led contest. So, ladies and gentlemen, the wind competition continues its administrative process with full normality, consolidated with the Supreme Court's own resolution, and we continue to promote the administrative processing of wind farms. It's already 17 wind farms, which add up to 410 megawatts and make up an investment of 524 million euros. And they also know that a few weeks ago, we authorized the first reconnaissance in Galicia. Finally, we continue to work on the impetus of the wind competition, and this Supreme Court ruling consolidates and proclaims the action that the Government did in 2009 by passing that law and nullifying that Bipartite competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u360	Yes, Mr. President. Mr. Conde, there is a complementary facet of this one, it is about the state of execution. If this explains the issue of legality... that is, it is very important that the legal framework be clear. We also know that there is a framework of new economic policy and subsidies to the wind sectors, due to the indispensability, to the unsustainable regulatory framework that the Socialist Party had made, with unsustainable tariff deficits in a country where there is a debt situation. So, we want to say to you: with this situation of legal clarification, with the development of the wind competition and the policy that has been set, is it capable of moving forward in the implementation of an wind policy? "I ask you, I want you to understand the whole House." Having clarified the legal system, is it currently possible to run the parks of the new wind competition proposed by the People's Party? Is this possible in this legal situation but also in this situation of prices and relative restrictions on subsidies? In other words, I ask you not only about the legal issue but also about wind policy, which has probably been reinforced with this clarification of the Supreme Court by giving certainty to the projects. How are the projects?, are they executed or not executed?, are they possible or not possible? Even with the new tax fixing policy, with regard to the People's Party of Spain, is it possible that we can achieve a powerful wind sector in Galicia? That's the point. Do we have a sufficient framework and an implementation policy that allows us to say that if we continue to strengthen the sector? Is the sector improving, Mr. Conde? That is the essential question. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u361	Thank you, Mr. Arias. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Arias, indeed, the wind sector is a strategic sector for Galicia, so we have moved it since 2009. I believe that for any government the actions it develops have to have credibility from a political point of view, but also from a legal point of view. From a political point of view, that credibility, that commitment by the Galician People's Party to citizens, was reflected in the electoral agenda itself. And I'm going to read the 2009 PPdeG election program. He said in that programme that the PPdEG will automatically review the entire proceedings of the wind competition, taking into account its annulment and a new call, and that this competition would also have all the guarantees necessary for companies and all citizens, responding to the principles of transparency, objectivity, legal certainty and reliability. And precisely this sentence confirms that this performance and commitment that the Galician People's Party has assumed with the Greeks also have that legality. And I repeat it again for the opposition groups. The Supreme Court confirms that this annulment of the Bipartite wind competition was in accordance with the law and was in accordance with the legal order, and confirms the Supreme Court that there was no deviation of power at any time. And that performance was not only well done, because, in addition, no firm judgment at this time removes the reason for the Government and, therefore, the courts continue to give ultimately reason to the Council of Galicia. And in this context, in the context of the adoption of Law 8/2009, which allows this legal security to the sector, it was how we started developing the wind sector. They know that the law has introduced a wind canon that has already allowed the Greeks to enter into the autonomous archives 137 million euros for the Greek municipalities, they know that we have convened and solved this contest and that we have begun its administrative processing, but the sector also knows that we are working to try to mitigate the impact of the electric reform itself, and that is why we avoid unnecessary financial burdens to promoters, we allow megawattts to be renounced for reasons of profitability or economic inviolability, we facilitate and we are empowered to refuel parks, we have managed to ensure that the 2015-2020 electrical planning of the contest has its own evacuation line and we are currently processing the sectoral plan. Finally, we continue to bet on the wind sector, ensuring that legal certainty and ensuring momentum in its administrative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u363	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, G.P. Jointly, on the measures being taken by the Council in Galicia to eliminate the problems of the disappearance of minors and child abuse
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u364	Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u365	Good afternoon. Today, twenty-seven years after the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was adopted by the UN General Assembly and was signed and ratified by most states in 1989, we have found that many of their commitments today have not been fulfilled. We are living day by day to day the deep rift that is causing the economic crisis: loss of work; loss of purchasing capacity; unable to afford to eat in a balanced way; many people, especially children and children, malnourished and even would say they are suffering from hunger; suffering from energy poverty; unable to cope with unforeseen payments; having to delay payment in another series of supplies or not having basic equipment; unable to buy school material; unable to pay reinforcement classes; unable to pay medication; etc. We talk about the problems of adult people, but we never notice the minors, who don't live apart from the gravity of reality. This is much worse if these minors are disabled, because they might enjoy help that would seek a better quality of life, if these minors have problems of conduct, if these minors are unaccompanied foreigners, or if they are children of migrants. The greatest increase in child poverty has occurred in the countries of southern Europe, where the Spanish state stands out, and the inequality in Galicia has increased more than the state average. One in three new people is in Galicia at risk of poverty or social exclusion. They suffer from decisions that result in austere policies of dehumanized adults. They imposed on the child the punishment of an economic crisis, and it should never be sacrificed. Each year 1,000 children's deprotection files are opened in Galicia. There are currently some 2,000 minors in the Autonomic Administration, currently under the protection of the Union, about 1,200 minors in reception centres and a total of 1,090 minors are currently in a family shelter situation. And on the other hand, we have another big problem, children find in justice a great road to obstacles: crimes against children and children, violence of all kinds, sexual crimes and incest. There's no prevention of child abuse and no legislation on prevention or strategy. Children and adolescent children, who have been victims of gender-based violence, have specific needs for attention and recovery that must be a special object of dedication. It is imperative that specialized human equipment in this matter that they know how to be able to transmit in a judicial procedure what their will really is, what this child or child needs, and that they meet their difficulties in a very specific way: fears, harms, their binding needs, and how they can be implemented. Cannot neglect your environment. The Board received 1,242 calls on the child care line, and the Child Abuse Registry, headed to police professionals, or education, received a total of 12 notifications during 2015. That is why we ask: What measures will the Union take in order to remove these problems of the disappearance of minors or child abuse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u366	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u367	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is vital for the Social Policy Council to work towards the well-being of all Greeks and Greeks, but especially those who need it most. We try to ensure that the problems of unemployment disappear or are reduced to the minimum possible. To achieve this goal, we are carrying out different measures and actions that are targeted precisely by minors. Each year they open up in the specialized services to protect children in Galicia more than 1,000 children's de-protection files, of which the grounds for suspicion of physical abuse are a small percentage of the total, 8%. Currently nearly 4,000 minors have open protective files, of which 1,463 are under the public custody of the Administration, and 498 are in custody. In view of this reality, public authorities have been entrusted with actions to protect the family, in particular children, legally, socially and economically. In the face of traditional actions, markedly intrusive to the child and to his family, the intervention before the child's deprotection is essentially based on providing families with the necessary support to favor the child's maintenance at the family level, except when that is not a viable alternative. In comprehensive care for children and adolescents, actions also aimed at preventing possible situations of deprotection and possible situations of social conflict, to which I would like to add another situation which is the chronicle of poverty. Many children and many children live in an area of poverty, and are called to be the poor of tomorrow. That is why we have recently drawn up a new social agenda that addresses people who are closer to social exclusion and people who are directly in Galicia in social exclusion; direct economic assistance to prevent these situations of poverty, to cope with the energy expenditure of those families, especially single-parent families; measures and programmes that facilitate the reconciliation of working and family life; and programmes of integrated resources of personalized care to minors from the protection system. We have already signed 5 of the 7 conventions for children, precisely to serve the minors in the seven main cities of Galicia, and next week we will sign them with the municipalities of Vigo and Pontevedra, precisely in the idea that we can all be able to unite together so that minors don't have to suffer situations that nobody wants. To this we have to add two new measures: a new order of medicines, precisely for the minors, that we are going to manage with the municipalities, 3 million euros to alleviate the effects that even there are families that can't water down these drugs and that are therefore situations in which we have to act...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u368	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u369	...and the new attention teams will be on the move this year to launch the Galician Union with the municipalities of Galicia. These are the most important measures that we have in place precisely to address this situation of what you are talking about in your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u370	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u371	The councilman just offered us here a battery of media and propaganda; in fact, it does seem to me very unfortunate at times, because they are campaigns for the photo, and I say to the photo because it's nothing else. I understand that a policy of a structural nature, specialized policies, support policies and custom policies must be made. I don't really know, for example, what they do with the data that we manage the Galego Institute of Statistics, which places us on the severity of the economic situation that we have in our Greek homes, that we're nearly squeezing at 60%; or the Welsh Network against Poverty, which tells us that we have risen widely from half a million people who are at risk of social exclusion, where there are a lot of children and children. Children and children have to be children and children, they're people with special characteristics. That, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I think we should be very careful with these people who are at risk of social exclusion, or who are already excluded from the system, because of restricted access to basic access. We have the statistics, we have the data, but I don't know what's going on, because we've been having this problem for years. And I also want to say that last year, Junta has reduced, cut, the budget for teenage children, who have behavioural problems. What is the budget of the centers, even at the level of justice, has been reduced, where we're talking about exposing children to double victimization. We have a vision of justice that preserves what is called an adult-centric vision and that allows a judicial praxis that does not respond to the established normative framework. Where is that objective, impartiality and legal certainty of protective action? And also what's very serious is that we still have a culture of what child abuse is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u372	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u373	Yes, thank you very much. I really had no intention of advertising, but my intention was to answer your question, because you ask me for data, and I facilitate some data. Look, I think it has little to do with the propaganda that the Government of Galicia has increased the direct aid to families suffering from a situation of social exclusion, particularly in recent years, which unfortunately has multiplied by more than two; more than 50 million euros for the only social income that exists in Galicia, which is the one that has the Council of Galicia. And new measures – which I've already told you – for families that need it the most for energy spending. New measures to reconcile family life. Look, no one can deny that right now we have more squares of children's schools in Galicia, no one can deny it, and no one can deny that in the next course there will be no waiting list, so everyone who needs it has a child's school square in Galicia. [[Applause]] On the subject of drugs, we're going to be the first autonomous community to put in place, according to the municipalities, which are the gateway to the social needs of many minors, a new order of aid complementary to all previous orders, the new attention teams will be early. You're just telling me about the Galician Network against poverty. I have to do what I have to do in this reply is thank you to the Welsh Network for the poverty it has shown us and help us with the elaboration of this social agenda. They, along with the municipalities and our technicians, are the ones who best know how we can all do it together to better address this situation. See, some more programs, the Family Intervention Program. It is that the subject of minors is included in the new Directorate General of the Family, and the budget increase of the Directorate General of the Family for this year is more than 40%. I am convinced that it would be necessary to continue to increase the economic amount that we have for social policies, but what no one can deny is that in Galicia the economic recovery of public accounts has a beneficiary, which is the Social Policy Council and our social programmes. What do we have to keep moving? Of course, but today we have a lot of progress, and that's why we can also increase the programs for evaluation and treatment of minors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u374	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u375	...the socio-educational programmes, the socio-laboral integration programmes Mentor and all the basic programmes and protocols for intervention against child abuse. I'm sure the public authorities won't be able to do everything against child abuse, but, of course, what we have to do is try to put all the means within our reach so that no minor in Galicia feels unprotected. That's what we're doing since the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-27-DSPG151.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Finish the full here. Good night.
