ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please go and take your seats. Good morning. Let us resume the session with point 6, which corresponds to questions for the oral answer of the President of the Union. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the effectiveness of the management of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u2	You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u3	Mr. President, as happened in Godard's film At the end of the escape, you went back to the exit box. He didn't want to repeat himself as a candidate, he devoted himself to taking a break in the tertulaes and dishes in Madrid, but his doors were closed; a question of image, perhaps. He applied as an effective private sector manager, and there seems to be little receptivity, perhaps because there they know the results of his management. Far from being proud and respectful of the presidency, you're going to re-submit yourself once again, for lack of alternatives. Yesterday, one of yours spoke here of legislative revenge, it's a good definition. From day one, for ideological reasons, as a propaganda tool and outside of any social demand, you have promulgated and repealed numerous previous rules to impose other worses, on a stage of generalized legal insecurity. The list of failures is very large: wind competition, aquaculture, passenger transport, waste, land law, land mobility, housing. Tax regulations were amended seven times, the Law of the wind sector six times, five times the Water Law, four internal trade laws and social services. Laws as recent as road and mountain laws have changed several times. Even the Land Law has already been changed, and it will change soon again. Plans are wet paper. The previous Strategic Plan never spoke again, for its manifest failure, as happened to the Aquaculture Strategy or the MOVE Plan, among many others. Only propaganda was constant, absolute, omnipresent. Campaigns in informative content, such as the one we have today about the Law of the Land. The only reason is to help the media; subliminally, self-promotion. There's no money for vaccines or for caring for dependents, but yes for spending on media incense. It was seven years ago, Mr. Feijóo, cutting off rights and allowances, impoverishing people, expelling youth and chronicating unemployment. Today there is no consumption, no employment, no investment, only unemployment, poverty and inequality, more spectacular debt. All your promises, Mr. President, have been broken. Is there anything to be trusted in you, Mr. Feijó?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I see you today happier than usual. You are especially happy and satisfied today, but I imagine it will be for your intervention. [[Laughter]] Don't misunderstand me, Mr. Méndez. Anyway, as I wonder whether the Government is effective or not, I'm going to try to move. Your Honor, governments, besides being effective, have to look for efficiency; that is, it's not only about fulfilling the goals, but also about doing it as efficiently as possible, that is, with the available resources. You ask me if this government is effective. In my opinion, Mr. Méndez, a certainly subjective opinion like all of us, but I can assure you a sincere opinion, I think so, Your Honor. I think I'm presiding an effective government, the most effective of the whole of the autonomous state. We had three goals when we started legislation, and the Greeks gave us their confidence again. There were control sessions in the previous one, too. The apocalypse you referred to was without looking at what you mean now. After the apocalypse of the first legislation, the Greeks gave us an absolute greater majority, and we'll see what the Greeks do in this electoral conflict, which I still anticipate has not begun, at least as far as the Government is concerned, which continues to govern. The electoral struggle in the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is not that it hasn't started, it's not finished yet; you've been taking it from the beginning of the legislation, but that's a problem for you. I'm not going to ask you whether or not you're presiding over something effective, because the Socialist Party is presiding over something effective is a rhetorical question. Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, I think yes, there is an effective government because you are achieving the three fundamental goals that the Greeks have entrusted to us: First, to ensure that essential public services remained and, if possible, to expand during the economic recession. We're getting it all together. On the other hand, trying to create jobs again, and where there was unemployment, there was now employment; where there were social security affiliations, they were now rising, and where people were unemployed, there now began to be more than twenty-three thousand unemployed less on the lists. And we're also doing it. And they gave us a third charge: to guarantee self-government; to self-government, to honor, for seven years of double economic recession, maintaining the solvency of public accounts. Nobody argues today that Galicia is one of Spain's most Solvent autonomous communities. That's why, Your Honor, the targets are being met: Does Galicia create a job? Yes, 19,000 more busy and 23,000 fewer unemployed. Galicia has better economic data than most autonomous communities, and undoubtedly we have an increase in GDP, an export record, an industrial index record. Your Honor, do we have more public services? Yes. This year 2016, 70% of the Greeks will have in their health area or a new hospital or a reformed hospital. Your Honor, do we have more public education today? Yes, and the Greek colleges are the least paid rates in Spain, we have less school dropout, less school failure, more school dining and vocational training.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u6	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u7	Your Honor, if you ask me if Galicia is solvent, you should know that Galicia is the Autonomous Community which has less public debt last year, and that together with Madrid we are the most self-solvent communities in Spain. Mr Méndez Romeo, I believe that we have indeed maintained a solvency government, and we are trying to get Galicia out of the double economic recession we have suffered during these years. About dependence and other things, if you'll excuse me, I'll answer you in the reply. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u9	Well, from your own words, Mr. Feijóo, you deduce what you didn't, because, look at it, seven years later, there's more unemployment and less activity than the day you arrived. So it might be very efficient in some statistical data, but you weren't able to solve the first problem that people expected. Do you mean that the citizen's mandate has been to devalue wages systematically?, to break labor relations with a job reform that has left work in front of the capital? Do you want to tell me that that was your mandate and your purpose? Because, of course, that was his result. Ask yourself at any hospital, ask yourself in any health area the assessment that citizens have of how things are today; ask yourself. You don't have the habit of talking to the citizens, you come here every fortnight and devote us half an hour disparately, if it's possible to question the opposition, rarely to give a clear answer. Mr President, for you Galicia was essentially the step forward of your self-promotion: speeches, announcements, promises, immediately forgotten consumer products the next day. Reviewing the countless announcements you made of budget savings causes perplexity, amounting to hundreds of millions of euros. Can you tell this camera exactly which budget departure are those intended savings? He won't find them, because they were virtual euros, which were exhausted at the same time as his propaganda presentation. There are no documents or traceability, only images. That's the synthesis of your presidency: many photos, some inopportunities, countless statements and promises. As in virtual games, in their virtual world everything is fine, there are resources in abundance for everything. But in the real life of people, the situation isn't like that. You were cruel to all the people who lived in wage incomes, you were cruel to all the people who depended on the public assistance system and you worked shamefully for the most powerful, imposing or collaborating to impose the cuts in wages, the expulsion of youth – with you youth is emigration again – and the cutting of rights.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u11	So, Mr. President, you're unreliable, you don't keep your promises, you don't do what you announce, you don't even improve people's quality of life. Really, are those your credentials for a new mandate?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u12	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u13	Your Honor, we support twenty-two Bipartite laws, twenty-two. You of thirty-six bills that we presented, presented thirty-five amendments to the whole. That's the balance of a responsible parliamentary group and an irresponsible opposition. [[Applause]] All we've achieved, Your Honor, is achieved with the pact with the Greeks. Of course, you've done nothing throughout the legislation. But you have an unusual interest in ending the legislation, Mr. Méndez Romeo; you find yourself better positioned at this time than fifteen days ago. Fifteen days ago you said that your secretary-general was an excellent general secretary; and now, Mr. Méndez Romeo, what do you say, except that position of extraordinary joy that I see you today? [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] But finally, as I am concerned about the Greeks, not the chronic internal problems of their party, nor their changing position as a function of the quarter and the Secretary General of Turn, for let me continue to talk about Galicia. For me Galicia is very important, no doubt, Your Honor; it takes you to spend a lot of my life, we'll see the Greeks decide what they decide in the future. What is clear, Your Honor, is that today, as President of the Board, I can say that there is less unemployment than when I presented myself in the elections in 2012, less unemployment than in 2014, than in 2013, than in 2012, rather than in 2011 and in 2010. That's not statistics, Your Honor, that's Galician numbers. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when you talk to me about public services and we tell you that 70% of the Greeks have a new hospital or a retired hospital, you think that's a minor issue. As during their term of office, they didn't do anything, they gave him exactly the same. Your Honor, when you were in government and there were enough money because they didn't create the dependency squares. Just why? Because they were dedicated to other things; for example, in the struggle between the Socialist Party and the Government's welfare area that led it by the BNG. Your Honor, we're going to create and serve 1,100 more dependents this month. That means, despite the fact that when we reached the Government the dependency ratio was 30%, we're going to reach the current 64%, plus the squares we're going to create during this year 2016, 1,100 more this month. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you're telling me about laws and, of course, about transport seems like you don't want to talk. Do you know why, Your Honor? When you were in government in 2007, European legislation forced a public transport law came out and ended the deadline in 2009. In 2007 they presented a draft, they were unable to make a pact with anyone. Then they introduced another one, and they were so ashamed that they didn't even process it. And they left us a transport without concessions, which month by month we lost all public transport concessions in Galicia. What have we done, Your Honor? We have agreed with the sector, first, second, the same as twelve autonomous communities. Yes, he has denounced us to the National Commission led by the Socialist Party, and the High Court of Justice has given us reason; now the Supreme Court analyses and re-enforces the law. Your Honor, don't worry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u15	...we will bring a law to this chamber to solve the discretionary transport and concessional transport in Galicia. Why? Because we're about to fix the problems, Your Honor, we're not for internal struggles, which, as you can verify, is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u17	...the only thing they've done during these years. They'll have a few months to correct. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the German Government with regard to the deviation it presents, in relation to the marked objectives, the convergence of Galicia with European income
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u19	To put the question, Mr. Jorquera has the floor. [[Murmurs.]] Silence, please, so that you may put the question to Mr. Jorquera, if you are so kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, the uncertainty of re-election will be cleared in the coming days, though uncertainty is less and less, as Mr. Méndez Romeo has already pointed out. If you're a serious politician, I imagine you'll balance what your government represented before you make this decision. Let me help you do this. Ever since he arrived in the presidency, he hasn't stopped repeating that with his policies, Galicia would be out of the crisis before and beyond anyone. Even fifteen days ago, he had the courage to compare Galician growth with Germany's growth. Have you read the regional economic accounts of the year 2014 published by Eurostat? See, in the Strategic Plan 2010-2014, Junta set as a goal that Galicia's per capita GDP would rise five points, until it represented 95% of the per capita GDP of the European Union in 2014. You know what Eurostat says? That in 2014 the GDP per capita in Galicia has receded to 80% of the European average; that is to say, its Government has deviated from the target marked by nothing more and nothing less than fifteen points, Mr. Feijóo. His Government's goal was to go up five points and it turns out we're down ten. And the same is true when we compare it with Spain. Between 2009 and 2014 the Spanish per capita income declined by 11.82 % compared to the European average, in Galicia by 13.70; two more points, Mr. Feijóo. In 2014 Galicia was the red lighthouse growing in the Spanish state. In 2015 we were third parties in the queue. And now there are recent studies predicting that in 2016 and 2017 we will be back to the growing queue. And yet above all, there are those who intend to convince us that you are the savior of our country. Because, look, these data indicate the total and absolute failure, the rotting failure of their policies. You played the president in one of the most serious crises you remember. But your failure of a country project, Mr. Feijóo, your resignation in exercising your responsibilities as president of an autonomous Government not to disturb in that way a Government friend and to make merits towards Madrid – with little success, by the way, it seems; perhaps this is also the fault of the Bipartite, like the fiasco of his Government in transport – and his failure to lead as president of a Government, of a nation, of a country aggravated the consequences of that crisis, condemned our country to social, economic and demographic decline. So, Mr. Feijóo, how do you value Galician convergence with European income if you deviated fifteen points from the goal marked by your Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u21	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, indeed, I had the honour – and I still have – of being President of the Council of Galicia and of managing the two most important economic crises that we had during democracy, not just an economic crisis, but a double recession. You will know – I was in Madrid at that time – that there were some possibilities of starting a certain economic recovery in 2010 and, however, the second economic recession occurred during that year and the following years. Proof of this, Your Honor – and you don't reflect it, you don't seem to be Spanish – is that Spain has lost eleven points of convergence with the European Union. And you ask me how Galicia lost nine. Indeed, Your Honor, Galicia lost nine, Spain lost eleven. So, Your Honor, as we are Spanish just like you, we know perfectly well that in the summer of 2010-2011 we had to change the Constitution via urgency to include within the constitutional principles the commitment of the public deficit. We had to be about to ask for the European Union's ransom in July 2012. You'll remember that because here we're all Spaniards in addition to Greeks. And so, Your Honor, you know that in southern Europe, for example, Italy lost nine points of convergence, Greece lost twenty-two points of convergence and Spain lost eleven points of convergence, and in Galicia we lost nine points of convergence. Therefore, Your Honor, Spain led the fall in Europe's GDP during those years and Spain led the fall in Europe's employment during those years. And Galicia is a part of that state that was about to ask for the ransom. Your Honor, if you tell me Galicia has lost nine points of convergence, it's true, but it's true knowing that Spain has lost two more points, eleven points. And it is true, Your Honor – I suppose you know – that Galicia is the third autonomous community that has lost less convergence with the European Union, the third that has lost less convergence; the ones that have lost less are Extremadura, Castile and León and Galicia. And you should know – I'm sure you know – that there are three autonomous communities that in 2008 were in a better position than Galicia, and today they are the same or worse, I refer to Asturias, Valencia and the Canary Islands. So, Your Honor, don't ask me to be satisfied with this data. But if you tell him that Valencia, for example, had ninety-one per capita GDP points in relation to Europe and now has eighty, the same as Galicia; just like Canarias, who has less than Galicia, and like Asturias, who is tied up with Galicia. Your Honor, the conclusion is that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that has been less affected by the loss of convergence with Europe. By the way, Your Honor, you're telling me that we've been very badly in 2015 and telling me that we're in line with Spain's economic growth. Your Honor, we're going to know the data today at eleven o'clock in the morning, and I hope you, if the data is good, celebrate as a Greek that in 2015 Galicia is reconverging with Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u24	...that in 2015 the economy of Greece is of the economies that have grown most in the European regions and that, ultimately, the economy of Greece is on its way. Nothing else, thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u26	Mr. President. Mr. Feijó, you haven't read the data published by Eurostat. One day in this chamber, before the legislation is exhausted, you'll have to clarify to everyone where you get the data from. Look, the problem is that the same thing happens to Mr. Rajoy: he's surrounded by people who don't dare say that the king is naked. That's why he doesn't take reality, Mr. Feijóo. You know what Eurostat says? That between 2005 and 2008 Galicia converged with the European Union 6.5 points, five times more than the Spanish State. On the other hand, with you as President, Galicia's average income is getting further and further away from Spain, Mr Feijóo, and also from Europe. We are at twenty points of European income, we are going back in terms of convergence to 2013, Mr Feijóo. And that's what Eurostat says, not the BNG propaganda department. [[Applause]] Or do you think the Greeks emigrated for sport, Mr. Feijóo, do you think they emigrated for sport? Don't you read this news: "The crisis fires the record of half a million of the Galicians who have emigrated"? Only in 2015 left 21,000 and only those who went to other states are counted. That's the reality, Mr. Feijóo, as much as you insist on denying the evidence. Do you read this news: "Work weakness increases the hole of social security in Galicia by 600,000 euros a day"? Mr. Feijóo, with you as president in Galicia there is only one person employed for every pensioner or unemployed person, do you think a country, a society with this situation is sustainable? Have you not read this information, since it speaks of convergence: "The wage gap between Galicia and Spain was the largest since the beginning of the crisis in 2015"? In the last quarter of 2015 the salaries in Spain grew four times as much as in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo; with you as president the average salary of a Greek is 300 euros a month below the average salary of a Spanish. Look, it's a pity, for the misfortune of our country, since you're president, the gap has grown, you're going to leave a more unjust and impoverished country in your inheritance. That's the reality you refuse to assume. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u27	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, that a nationalist doesn't even know how to interpret the Census of Missing Residents, it's silly, Your Honor. To say in this chamber – I suppose your AGE colleague will probably say the same – who left Galicia 21,000 people, who wants to cheat?, to those who say that Galicia lost convergence with Europe more than the rest of the autonomous communities and who in the average of Spain? You say I don't interpret Eurostat data. Your Honor, Eurostat data is the INE data. And I would like to reiterate: Galicia is the third autonomous community that has lost less income in convergence with Europe of the seventeen autonomics. Extremadura lost seven points; Castile and León, eight points, and Galicia, nine points; A Rioxa, nine; Madrid, nine; Castela-A Mancha, ten; Catalonia, ten; Aragon, eleven; Valencia, eleven; Andalusia, eleven. Do you want it to continue until the 13th of Navarre, the 13th of Cantabria, the 13th of Asturias and the 13th of Basque Country? Your Honor, I tell you that we are third parties who lose the least in convergence with the European Union. And I remind you, Your Honor, that Valencia was above us and now it's beneath us; Asturias had more income than us and now it's equaled, and another of the autonomous communities had exactly the same income as us above and now it's equaled with us exactly in the same percentile. So, Your Honor, what are you talking about? Are you telling me that if there were 21,000 Greeks outside of Galicia? False, of all falsehood. And I hope you have the opportunity to rectify because you're not a person who gives a data to false wisdom. Look, Your Honor, I would like to reiterate to you: when you say that during the economic crisis the IGE data believe that we kept a GDP fall below the Spanish average, we say that the Greeks had a better overall behavior than the average of the Spanish gross domestic product. I understand that speaking of Spain sometimes produces urticaria, but it is that I am Spanish, Your Honor, because if I could not be Greek, and that is the great difficulty between you and me. Your Honor, I am Spanish because I believe in the Spanish Constitution, and thanks to the Spanish Constitution we have a Statute of autonomy of Galicia, and by that Statute I am President of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. That's the big difference between you and me. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, it is curious that they appeal to European income the same ones that are taking over the flag of Europe, but if that is rectification, I agree. Your Honor, neither Castile nor Risco nor Filgueira nor Piñeiro had any doubts about their Spanish and European character; neither did I, Your Honor. And that's why I'm proud that Galicia was standing, sire, clean-faced and surrounded by the white that fell from above during the recession and the economic crisis. And that's why I look forward to celebrating with you the growth data of the Greek economy of 2015. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Jorquera, rejoice because we have an excellent data. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the responsibilities of the Government of Galicia in the demographic evolution of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u30	Mr. Feijóo, we knew that his main quality as a politician is that he doesn't get colored when he's lying, when he manipulates, but he doesn't stop surprising us. He just blamed the Bipartite for the last fiasco of his government. A resolution signed by you in 2010 that had been annulled by the Supreme Court, and blames the Bipartite. Don't stop surprising us! But what credibility will you have, Mr. Feijóo, if you just said that there is now more work than when you arrived at the Government? IGE data: occupied in 2009, in the second quarter of 2009, 1,153,000; occupied in the first quarter of 2016, 1,032,000; according to my accounts, it is 122,000 jobs destroyed, Mr. Feijóo. You've reached the Presidency of the Galician Council with the suit of a good, tailor-made manager. They seemed to want to tell us, he's not charismatic, he doesn't have a strong personality, but he's a good manager. That was his base, his suit, his star. But time has passed and we actually found that you weren't charismatic or an exceptional personality, but unfortunately we also found that there was none of that great manager announced. And, of course, if you can't get out of the great achievements of the two laws of your government, you come here to answer with unfamiliar slogans, which I often don't understand, of low-cost argumentary, to see if you hang any headline or divert attention from your failure. The glare of that great manager's star named Núñez Feijóo disappeared forever inside the black hole of corruption, of unemployment, of ineffectiveness, of the indolence of the People's Party; and the accumulation of failures of its policies, of its government, is a country that is waning. The lack of opportunities in this country for people, Mr Feijóo, is one of the fundamental factors that explains the enormous loss of population in their years of government. Since you rule until January 1, 2015 Galicia has lost 64,000 inhabitants. Until 2010 Galicia increased its population. This is a symptom that there is no opportunity for people, and we are once again a country that is clearly emigrant. For the first time in many years – said the IGE, Mr. Feijóo – the migration balance of this country was negative; more people are coming out of it. Their policies expel thousands of boys and girls. The lack of policies of opportunity, derived from these policies, which increase precariousness, social exclusion, which create poor workers, also aggravates the negative crop balance. Differences between deaths and births are increased. Mr. Feijóo, who can consider having children if no work is found? Who can consider having children 40 days a year? How many people can think of having children when 35 percent of the workers earn less than 650 euros, when youth unemployment is 50%? Who can think of having children when the salary doesn't pay to pay a rent, a mortgage, when there are thousands of drawbacks, when they have to choose between paying heating and feeding? Do you think your cracks in milk, in the wind, in the boxes, the destruction of industrial employment, rural development, and so on, don't affect the sanctuaries of this country? This country, Mr Feijóo needs, precisely, effective policies to reverse this situation. This doesn't work out advertising. Bad news for you: while the country bleeds, you're dedicated to trying to make it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u32	...sales in the eyes of citizenship, instead of putting sales in the wounds to the country. But people no longer drink, Mr. Feijóo; stop stunning the future of this country. Do you still think your policies don't influence Galicia's demographic regression? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Reply by the Chair of the Board
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u34	Your Honor, you confuse a resolution with a law; it doesn't matter. He says I passed a law, a resolution of the year 2010, for public transport. No, ma'am, we passed a law in 2009, and the laws passed by Parliament. That's why it gives you more resolution than law if you don't understand what you're talking about. You speak of the charismatic leader. Your Honor, I am no charismatic leader, I am a Democrat who introduced me to elections with a political party, and to that political party most people voted for us, and I am a worker for the general interests of my country. The charismatic leaders don't come to Parliament, they don't need it, so why will the charismatic leaders come to Parliament? [[Applause]] Parliament is a gas chamber where no one comes here, of course, Your Honor. That's why I'm still from my people, I still know where they are, and I don't consider myself a charismatic leader of anything. I'm a worker for Galicia, first and last. And that's why I'm telling you, Your Honor, that the demographic problem you've studied, and the first demographic plan I had the opportunity to belong to that government when we present it to the House. You guys did one thing: they just got up because they didn't want to talk about demography, they considered it a little retrograde. Thank you, Your Honor, for talking about demography, because it's Galicia's first structural problem. If you'd studied demography a little bit, you'd know that we've been dealing with this problem since the last century, for over 30 years, since about 1980. Ladies and gentlemen, if you knew about this, you would know that in 1986 the number of births that we had registered in the 1970s began to fall abruptly. From 44,000 births per year in 1975 to 18,500 in 1988, and so on, Your Honor, in the vicinity of 21,000, compared to the more than 40,000 we had before the 1980s. That is why, Your Honor, you should look at Galicia's demographic problems, because you are paying a salary as a member of Parliament in Greece. And you should know, Your Honor, that the problem is a problem of population aging, indeed. Between 2000 and 2004, between those who died and were born, we had an average, a negative balance of 8,800 people, exactly or similar to those between 2005 and 2008, 7,786, and very similar to the average of 2009 and 2014, 9,070. Your Honor, when you say the problem is that they go and they don't come, you're wrong again. Between 2008 and 2014, 204,000 people left Galicia and entered 240.000; that is, we won 36,000 people between 2008 and 2014. When you talk about boys, Your Honor, between 2008 and 2014, they left Galicia 90,915 and entered 99,856; that is, 9,000 more people who came in than those who came out... as you give exactly the same numbers, are at your disposal here... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u35	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u36	Your Honor, the problem is not the one that comes out, for now more than the one that goes away; the problem is that the number of those who are born...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u37	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u38	...is inferior to those who die. That's the main problem in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u39	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u40	You should study it a little better so you don't be surprised at the data I'm referring to. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, Your Honor, when you talk to me about it, I remind you... that, look, at this moment, there is no autonomous community with a more beneficial policy than Galicia for child deduction; neither the first nor the second nor the third. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is currently no autonomous community that is working more for child care than Galicia, 68% more than there was... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u41	Quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u42	...at the beginning of the economic crisis. Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u43	Mr. Fajardo, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u44	...at this moment what I can assure you is that for this government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u45	Please finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u46	...the problem of population aging is a structural problem. For you, it's just an ideological problem. Welcome. I hope you're interested in the matter, if you study it and you'll see that the problem isn't yours, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u48	...the problem is that those who die exceed those who are born. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez. Give Mr. Sánchez a voice, please. Let's see if it's the phone that inhibits that. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u50	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u51	Maybe, everything here is possible. Maybe. I'm asking... Mr. Fajardo, not between you on a technical matter, leave the matter to others. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] House services, give him a voice. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, you've already connected that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u52	It's just that I needed the phone to see the credibility Mr. Noñez Feijóo may have. You understand, you study the subject and you ask. What the Supreme Court annulled by road transport, Mr Feijóo, is the Resolution of 27 February 2010 approving the Plan for the Modernization of Regular and Permanent Public Transport Grants of People of General Use by Galicia. Mr. Feijóo, what credibility will you have when you say this, when you speak of a 2009 law? What is annulled is the 2010 resolution? What credibility will you have when you say that between 2008 and 2014 Galicia has not lost population? What credibility will you have when you have been lost since you rule 64,000 inhabitants until January 1, 2015? And you try to divert attention by talking about aging. No, this is a symptom that in this country there are no opportunities to work, no opportunities to live. And that's why, Mr. Feijóo, I don't know where the data comes from. IGE data say that in 2013 and 2014 – they're not yet 2015 data – there's been more people than there has been, because there's no chance of working in this country. It's so simple: 5,000 people with negative migration balance, and, above all, you deny that the lack of opportunities has something to do with people deciding whether or not to have a job. And you deny that people have no job stability, and that affects them when planning long-term vital projects. You were comparing – or trying to compare – with Beers. Mr. Feijóo, there are many differences, in addition to the charism between you and Mr. Beiras...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u53	Quiet, please. Quiet, please! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u54	Calm down!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u55	Go ahead, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u56	There are many differences – and I could talk a long time – between you and Mr. Beers. He has an ethical commitment to this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u58	Just one question. While Mr. Beiras was taking part in demonstrations with the mothers of those affected by drugs to desensitize and remove the social hegemony that the drug traffickers who were funding the People's Party, you were in the Arousa stream with this gentleman and traveling with this gentleman all over the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u59	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u60	And yes, Mr. Feijóo, we stand up because we don't participate in paripés, and I've already told you that this isn't solved with advertising and propaganda, it's solved with serious, effective and committed policies with the country, which you don't have. He has no commitment to this country. [[Murmurs.]] So if he stays, he has no choice. And yes, I earn a member's salary, everyone knows what my salary is, but what I do not charge is in envelopes with black money, Mr Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u61	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Article 1 of the Law of 2009 marks the extension of public transport concessions. On the basis of that article, which, as you know, is developed by resolutions or decrees, by the development of the law, is when the Supreme Court, as a result of what we agreed in Parliament, as in other twelve autonomous communities, and as a result that when we took possession, there were a few months left for each and every one of the concessions to transport, and consequently, the Greeks who did not have their own car could not leave the house... we had to get that law; by the way, with the agreement of the sector and with the abstention of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Look, Your Honor, I thank you very much for not comparing myself with Mr. Beers. Indeed, we have nothing to do with it; from the beginning to the end, nothing to do with it. Among other things, Your Honor, because he had been losing as many elections as Mr. Beiras would not be part of this House. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I know there's always a possibility, which is to change the game. I know that. I can take 20 years as PP's spokesman and then go to another party and say I'm a charismatic leader. If I understand, Your Honor! If we've all met here! You'll understand we're all going to meet each other. Look, ma'am, when you say the problem is emigration, I remind you that between 2008 and 2014 204,000 people left Galicia and entered 240,000; favorable balance, 36,000. 16-34-year-olds: they left Galicia 90,000 and entered 99,000; favorable balance, 9,000. The problem we have is not that they go out, Your Honor, I repeat, the problem we have is a problem of births versus deaths. When you tell me that the problem is the economic crisis, you should know that the most developed countries in Europe, like Germany, have a serious demographic problem, and that the third power in the world, Japan... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u63	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u64	...have one of the oldest societies in the world. That is why, as the problem is complex, they should study this and consider it with a little rigour, if what we really want is to serve the country. Rigor is what we need to not repeat again that, according to the latest census, 21,000 people have left Galicia. Falso, Your Honor! Of the 21,000 people, the vast majority have never lived in Galicia; only the 20,812 have lived in Galicia 4,960. So, what are you talking about, that the children of the Greeks who are born in Cuba, Venezuela or in Bos Aires are also emigrated? By the way, Your Honor, there are 10,000 who, in your opinion, went from Galicia to Argentina, Cuba and Venezuela. Do you think, Your Honor, that the Greeks are as dumb as we are to go to Venezuela? Do you believe, Your Honor, that there you are... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u65	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u66	... all right, but are we really bad? And so, Your Honor, what we want from Venezuela is to restore the country's freedoms... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u67	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u68	...and you should convince them to do so, gentlemen. They should be convinced. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, normally the president of the board – especially the present – is guilty of everything: he is guilty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u69	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u70	...that the Greeks are born with their parents and their mothers outside Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u71	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u72	...is guilty that there are more deaths than births. Your Honor, I hope you don't blame me too... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u73	Mr. Fajardo, second call to order, and that means, if I call him back to order, I have to expel him. Yes, yes, you repeated today... I was almost provoking myself to make the second call to order. [[Murmurs.]] Here, therefore. You have, therefore, the second call to order. No, no, I don't care about that. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mr. President, and finish it now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u74	I mean, Your Honor, don't make me guilty that there are people who have never been born in Galicia and who have never lived in Galicia, because I think I'm not guilty of it. If I'm responsible, Your Honor, for trying to make Galicia one of the most favourable autonomous communities for women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u75	Please finish, Mr. President. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u76	...they decide to have children and why, Your Honor... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u78	...the families can have offspring, from an economic and social point of view. And so, Your Honor, we are going to persist in demographic policies because they are a priority for the German Government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u80	Your Honor, if you want to study the problems of the Welsh demography, I'll leave this at your disposal. Here is the state of the situation and the proposals and measures of a government, the government that currently has the most positive demographic policy in the autonomous communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u81	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u82	Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-law proposals, with which it appears in third place. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other Members, on the adoption by the Government of Galicia of the measures necessary to ensure full and quality care for all women who have to stop their pregnancy in the second quarter of the management by the medical causes reflected in the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy throughout the scope of Sergas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u84	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative of the Left and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u85	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Ferreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry Mr. President didn't stay because I wanted to tell him if they ever learned, because we're not the only women we have children. We have men and women, because they talked about women having children. Let's see if we preach one thing again and do another. [[Applause]] If we help women and if we defend women, then let's also do acts accordingly. [[Murmurs.]] We said yesterday that we were facing a problem that affects women who are pregnant more than 14 weeks and less than 22 weeks; a serious problem that obviously happens first. They're desired pregnancies and they're pregnancies that have to be interrupted for medical matters primarily. So they're women and couples who are in a very delicate situation, and yet the German Government does it is to complicate their lives rather than help them solve this problem by providing them with the information and means needed to do so. I used to say yesterday they complicate her life and that they're also breaking a law, to which all women have the right and which is to be respected. They're also making a situation of tremendous inequality in women's access to solve this problem. Look, when this was reported by the Coruña Abortion Right Platform, we were talking about a situation that occurred at the Coruña Hospital, because the family planning center came up with many women who had psychological problems as a result of the interruption of pregnancy in that hospital. At that time we didn't think this problem affected more people from other provinces. Today we know that it does affect all Galician hospitals and that it affects all Galician women, and perhaps more seriously than what happens in the Coruña. Given what I've seen and seen with people, at this moment maybe the Coruña Hospital is the thing that makes it easier for women to produce abortion in better conditions. Look at what's going on in this city! We continue to say that there is still inequality, and we follow it by saying, inequality and non-compliance with the law, because, from the very first moment, when a woman reaches a family planning center demanding the interruption of her second trimester pregnancy, the first thing we do is to give her a written information that facilitates the Council, the Sergas, and yet that information is so old-fashioned that it no longer responds to the existing reality. In 2010 it was when that information was made, and it was given to women. Things have changed a lot, and even today you have nothing to do with that information. Therefore, women are deceived at the very first moment and the law is indicted. However, there are family planning centres that have updated that information to their own workers, and that information is real, but thanks to the workers of the family planning centres – which, by the way, we will speak on another occasion, but they are absolutely abandoned and left by the hand of the German Government –. It's obviously a subject that's there, and they won't shut us down because, in fact, it would cost a number of votes, but they're not doing anything for potentials or for coordinating them. Each center does what you think best, no one gets in, no one gets into what they do; some even support or follow up on the pregnancies. I said, that information is not the right information and therefore it is the law. It's not in all the centers either. There are centers where that information is given carefully and there are centers that simply derive from a private clinic or from the concert or from the corresponding hospital. There is also no equality in the method used to stop pregnancy. In most cases there is an induction to childbirth; induction to childbirth which has many ways to be done and which can last from 1 day to 3 or 4 days. In the Coruña, by the way, that abortion method is applied much faster, because women are given mifepriston in the family planning center to start induction, and then, at 24 hours, they have insured admission to the hospital. It's true that later there are other conditions, that there is no accompaniment, that there is no psychological care, etc., and the problems come from there. But as far as abortion is concerned, it's better than elsewhere. Look, there are places where between the moment that the woman calls for abortion in her family planning center until she goes to the hospital, she can spend three weeks. You imagine the situation of that woman and that family as long as the problem you've posed is not solved, the distress that this woman can live. Yesterday, the PP spokesperson said he did the same thing as in spontaneous abortions. Look, this is not a spontaneous abortion; you can do the same later, but this is an induction to a delivery, it's not the same as what happens in a spontaneous abortion. In a spontaneous abortion there's no problem, the woman aborts herself, in this case you have to induce a birth. I also want to say that the PP is proud to defend that there is a protocol and that it is being complied with, and for that it manipulates or uses certain medical societies or mistresses to say that they are doing it very well and cover what is going on, and yet it does not listen to the voices of the women who came out after the news went out, nor does it listen to Sergas professionals, who are working in the family planning centers and who corroborate this. Well, at least I ask you not only to pay attention to women, but also to listen to them and to make things easier for them, which is your obligation in this government as well as in previous governments. As long as we have a law, it's necessary to keep it. Don't forget that these are women's situations that are going through a bad trance, and that their obligation is to comply with the law, and of course, to make it easier for them to have an abortion in an integral way and taking all the circumstances into account so that there will be no further complications. That's what we demand from this group, and I hope the PP has enough sensitivity to recognize that this is a subject that can be fixed and that is not so complicated. Stop being a useless and evil government for the women of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u88	Thank you, President. I also take note of the complainant's complaints from the PSdeG, and I deeply regret the misogyny which distilled that expression that "we women do not decide to have children." That's the problem of demography. That's where you really see what the misoxinomous heel of this government is and, specifically, Mr. Feijóo, who is not here right now. It was patented yesterday afternoon, in the debate also of the motion of the Gaga de Left on this very subject, which the People's Party does not care at all, we know, because they did not want to come to this House. Yesterday they did not speak on most of the points of the motion and presented an amendment that had nothing to do with what was requested; that is, they did not even pronounce on voluntary interruptions of pregnancy because the intention of the initiative was to first pronounce on esenetic abortions and, second, on voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. So much so that the amendment applies to a broken and uncouth, and today they present it again to a totally different initiative – although it has to do with it – in the proposal, as the Socialist Party does. But, besides, yesterday, they didn't clarify a fundamental point either, which is why it's not on the table that alleged report of that investigation that the People's Party says it's doing medical inspection. A few weeks ago, according to the counsellor's words, at the plenary session 15 days ago, we had to have that report on the table, and today we don't only have it, but we don't know what conditions it's in. We don't know anything, but we can guess that, in these conditions, it will soon serve because there doesn't seem to be a willingness to improve anything and, above all, taking into account the arguments provided. He went back to the treatment yesterday, which could put the expulsion forward, etc. Exhausts there for everyone. She has now explained to the PSdeG the differences in the spontaneous abortion of an induced abortion. They seem to want to confuse us, as if we had absolutely no idea here. This month and a half we hear absolutely all kinds of excuses from the Administration. And then they tried – I said yesterday – to confuse us with the treatment that was provided or even with the attention received, obviously, as I said yesterday too, that if you offer yourself to go private to Madrid is for something; it's because the attention you provide is not the same as you can unfortunately offer within the Galician Health Service. I mean, in order for women to have access to all their rights related to these eusenic abortions in the second quarter, they have to move to Madrid, and therefore they are not providing the same attention. If not, who would go to Madrid and be able to treat himself, and have the induction of that abortion necessary for his health? We have not just understood how in a context where it is necessary – I repeat – because of health conditions, either because there is a fetal anomaly or because it is necessary, because of a problem of maternal health, which can even tolerate conscientious objection, we said yesterday. Is that what it is? Absolutely incredible! How can a public service be allowed to deny a person the health care he needs? We're talking about women who need that induction to abortion. And I'd like you to clarify yourself from the People's Party, from the Galician Union, if that's the reason – because we don't know it – not to provide this attention in the same conditions as these women are sent to the clinics in Madrid, or if the problem is the lack of staff, or if the problem is that they cut costs on the maintenance of equipment that cared for these abortions, these professional teams, and, therefore, they're not being provided in public health, or if it's perhaps a bit of everything. We tabled an amendment that goes a bit along the lines of yesterday's debate – even if not accepted, we will also vote in favour of this initiative – and amends that it proposes that human and material resources be provided and is reorganized so that there is the possibility of paying attention to public health and that at least two units, one north and the other south, are established to serve this service. I'd like you to think about it if you don't see gender bias in this problem. How can some not see it? How could it be that a month and a half later we're still in these conditions? I'm sure there are many women in this situation and that unfortunately they won't come out because they won't have the strength to count. Yesterday we also reported here that if I had questioned women themselves for not putting that complaint. That, which is also Machism, ultimately expresses what is the dominant ideology of the Government Party. I wonder if, after talking about all this and after you've detected a problem, the government won't do anything. The worst thing a government can do when there's an obvious problem is to look somewhere else. So, in the face of a problem of this magnitude, sensitive to many people, I wonder what the People's Party is going to do. We will, of course, vote in favour of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u90	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning, Mrs. Ferreiro. I think today we came here to debate your proposal not of law and not Mrs Solla's motion, but it seems that Mrs Solla feels differently. From the People's Parliamentary Group, we have very little to add to the debate in the motion on this very subject yesterday. In fact, we keep the same amendment that we tabled to the motion. You make a review in your exhibition of the current law, the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, which is a law of the Government of Zapatero, modified in part corresponding to the juveniles by the Government of the People's Party. The People's Party doesn't do what you do, it doesn't repeal a law because it's a government other than its own, and it doesn't put the laws down without it, even if it wasn't voted by us at the moment. The People's Party abides by the laws. You spoke a little while ago to comply with the laws. Of course, with LOMCE they're not having the same position. In fact, in that law it is indicated that pregnancy can be discontinued up to 22 weeks due to the existence of a serious risk to the mother's life or health or the risk of serious abnormalities in the fetus; in that case we talk about ellenesic abortion. We agree with you that the mother's psychological situation, although also that of her father – since there is a tendency to forget that I don't think it is correct – can be very delicate in these cases. But we can't admit that you say these abortions aren't practiced in accordance with international protocols. The Galician Platform for Right to Abortion records a writing which is not in all its terms adjusted to international protocols, often cited in this Chamber. I suppose people on that platform will refer to three documents: Safe Abortion: Technical Guide and Policy for Health Systems, edited by the World Health Organization, also the Clinical Guide for Comprehensive Abortion Care in the second quarter and the Clinical Practice Manual for Safe Abortion, both edited by the non-governmental organization Ipas, of which we have already spoken in the motion debate. I checked those documents, and they're broad and they don't say what it exposes to the Platform. A curiosity about the Manual: if you want to download it from the Internet, you don't allow it and you say that this manual has techniques and actions that are prohibited by law in Spain; that is, you have to put one living in Cuba. If you live in Cuba, you can download it; if you live in Spain, with the law, with the law of Government Zapatero, I repeat, you can't download that manual. In no case is there any mention of guides, protocols or manuals of other professionals other than that organization, which could shake the view on this eid of eusenic abortion. I think we all have clear that spontaneous abortion or the second trimester is not the same as delivery; it's not the same dilation, it's not the same expulsion, I think we have quite clear. You say there's no access to epidural anesthesia and it's not true. The counselor said that if he was valued, he would put epidural anesthesia, although I reminded him yesterday that none of the protocols indicate epidural anesthesia, not even in surgical abortion, dilation and evacuation – I have the three; if we want to, we talk about it and discuss it –. In spite of that, as I said, it is valued and proceeds to administer epidural anesthesia if it is considered by the optional specialists. About the protocol that follows in the Greek hospitals of the Sergas network we have already spoken enough in the debate of the motion and in the interpellation. I told him I was overwhelmed by scientific societies and professional associations. It's the professionals who work at the Maternal-Children's Hospital who answered the complaints. I'm not going to deny it or discuss what professionals say, I can't take them against it, it'll have to be shown by the investigation. I didn't talk about complaints, I talked about complaints. Yesterday, the counsellor was told that Galicia was the place where most of the complaints were made, and there was, by chance, no single complaint in the hospital. I'm in favour of people who are dissatisfied with the system. To make a claim is to cover a paper on exit, it has nothing but that. The Coruña Prosecutor's Office did not appreciate a crime in the health proceedings in this year at Teresa Herrera Hospital, and is conducting, as I said yesterday, an investigation into the news in the Coruña press, whose conclusions we hope to know as soon as possible. That's why we present this amendment, to incorporate scientific evidence and the protocol of action. I understand that what can be presented is questionable, and scientific evidence changes in very little time. But exactly the same way it is done in any other process and to correct any dysfunction, any problem of any kind that can object as a result of open research to study cases appearing in the media and take all the necessary measures to correct those eels, in case they are confirmed. We expect, Mrs Ferreiro, the support of your group to our amendment, but in any case I am at your disposal to speak of a possible transaction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u91	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. Today we came here to talk about a private abortion. If we have to say that the practice of abortion is as old as the social organization of human beings, and above all the induced abortion, which remains the procedure that causes more emotional and ethical controversy and so much public attention. We understand that the interruption of pregnancy is a complex socio-health technique that covers several aspects of women: strictly health, social, psychic and intimate, where confidentiality should be preserved. The event at the Maternal-Children Hospital of Coruña is currently bringing about a topic that today is unfortunately still taboo: the cases of women who have suffered, who are forced to undergo therapeutic abortions, past fourteen weeks, i.e., in the second quarter, where they have not guaranteed the necessary assistance, according to international protocols, such as simply being attended by masters or gynecologists who provide assistance in their professionalism and knowledge about the diseases that affect women because they have found themselves in this area with regard to the conditions of this situation. This protocol is important so that there are no problems later, such as the need for psychological care that many women needed after living a traumatic experience. When women have to stop pregnancy after this period, in the alleged danger to their health or fetal malformation – an abortion of these characteristics is not like pregnancy and needs other xinecologic care – when this assistance is made, all guarantees must be fulfilled within a health service, which should be established as one more of public health, in every area of the Galician health and with a minimum of several hospitals in Galicia. And after this case, fortunately or unfortunately, we've known other cases that also happened in other hospital areas, as it was in Ferrol's CHUF, in a rather similar example to that of the Coruña. Also women who underwent a elesenesic abortion between week 12 and 22 at the HULA, at the Lugo Health Center, recall a very similar process described by the women who went through this trance in hospitals such as those in the Coruña and Ferrol: a drug to be introduced via vaginally and the indication to notify the nursing staff when the foetus is expelled. Public health is opting for the pharmacological method – pharmaceutical or instrumental – where women are deprived of freedom of choice. We understand that all professionals and professionals directly involved in health practice should be trained in all methods. The health practice of abortion caused should be carried out by professionals integrated into specific specialized units. These professionals must support intervention. They are multidisciplinary units, consisting of doctors, doctors, gynecologists, nurses, anesthetists, social workers, psychologists, psychiatrists, lawyers and all that person related to these professionals. Because of what the law permits, all professionals declared themselves conscientious objectors, and in Galicia there are no licensed clinics to practice abortions from 14 weeks. That's why seven types of abortions were started in public health. We understand it's a situation of total violence that is intolerable. The Greek Government is obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure the service and quality care of all patients who have to stop their pregnancy in the second quarter, as it appears in the conditions that allow the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the VlV in the Greek territory, and must ensure that women are always cared for, although there were staff objects in the xynecology service. The Galician Abortion Defense Platform insists on an ideological issue, linked to the cuts, as the main cause of this situation by not guaranteeing Sergas the same attention to a woman who is going to give birth to a living fetus than to the one who undergoes an abortion and has to expel a dead fetus. In the face of all these facts, there was a need to derive 71 cases from Madrid, where they had secured medical care specialized in abortion clinics, signing the informed consent by the family guidance centres, where they accepted certain conditions, such as the displacement to Madrid. Here, if another great inequality is shown, since the transfer was offered by the government, it was carried out by the Public Health Administration, but the journey was carried out by the patients themselves, when often it is not convenient – the journey itself – in women managers who have indicated ellenesic abortion. Derivations to Madrid are generalized in Lugo and Ourense, but random in the rest of Galicia, and the criteria used are not well known. The number of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy carried out in Galicia in 2014 – which is the last year of data – was 3,351, of which only 260, i.e. 7,7 % in the last year, refer to the fact in the public health system. The rest, 92%, were derived from private clinics in Vigo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u93	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u94	...at the Coruña and Madrid. I want to comment that since the Association of Clinics, if it's recommended that there should be professionals with appropriate training and specialization, because they understand that it's a very complex technique. I want to comment on a small claim, because there's a great problem of generational relief and there's not enough people trained to deal with these situations. We are going to support the non-law proposition of the PSOE, and I would also like to point out that unfortunately there are not only problems with abortions, but with what is xynecological treatment with women, because it seems that women do not count for anything in the Greek public system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u96	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the fourth time we've dealt with this topic in fifteen days, which we must evaluate as positive, as very positive, which is brought to the House by the different opposition groups a very important issue, such as the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. In addition to today – if only one minute of reflection is allowed – we have seen the complexity that has to have children on the one hand be a matter for women, but on the other hand, that the decision on women's sexual and reproductive health is not women's decision. That's always the ambivalence or contradiction in which society moves from its perspective, we're going to say androcentric – not to make a stronger qualification –. Demographic issues aren't social issues, they're women's issues. On the other hand, the decision on women's bodies and their health is not women's own decisions, but they become a social decision, something that from feminist theory we can call control of the sexuality of women's bodies. That's why we're going back with that initiative, and from BNG we're going to support it. Furthermore, with all due respect for minimums, I hope that the People's Party will support it, because it means that the law is complied with, that voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in the second quarter are safe, that they are in public health and that they are, in addition, understood as a whole process, because it is not only a health issue – and it has been explained here perfectly by the rapporteur – but it is a matter that needs accompaniment before, during that process in a healthy way and possibly afterwards as well. And I, with all due respect to the parents – for whom we certainly demand reconciliation and co-responsibility – believe it is not equal to introduce them in this debate; neither is it their body nor is it their decision entirely. I think we're talking, in this case, about the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in very difficult situations for women, and, in addition, total and absolute loneliness on the part of the public health system. I won't appreciate it, that it will, too, but that's not the question. The question is, this woman, the women in Galicia, has to travel to private clinics in Madrid, or do it alone in the public health system, because there is no real accompaniment, and there are women's own witnesses. And you – the People's Party – say there are no complaints. But if the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is stigmatized, how will they then claim?Oh, my God! It's almost obvious that there are no complaints. It's obvious because, as bad as they're going through, they're not going to complain to the Galician Health Service, because that was a terrible decision. Besides, many of them, because of the knowledge we have, have little information on it, and they think that was the only technique that could exist. And then they're going to get to know and lose the same, which is something that they probably want to be confidential about as well as social penalties, even if it's strictly health issues. I think it is understandable, absolutely understandable, that there are no claims; in any case, if there is a platform that presents a collective claim, truly the Health Council could have had no idea whether sensitivity, but from the very height of political purposes to have an interview with the signing persons or with the platform, with whom it has considered, to analyze what is the situation that is happening, not only in the Coruña health area, but throughout Galicia, because, still in a lack of data, we are seeing that this is something, in addition, that repeats itself in Galicia in the most disorganized way, because there is not only a need to see how it is done in each health area, there have to be health people who have contacts and who give you that information or get in touch with parliamentary groups. The Government should already be the first interested person to comply with the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and to have and offer a good public service for voluntary termination of pregnancy, at least in the second quarter; the other one we will speak on other occasions. In addition, we have already done so when Mr. Gallardon tried to modify that law, which, in the end, was only the modification for teenagers, another subject on which we cannot enter now, in that derivative. I, in fact, reiterate: it is good that this issue is brought to the House, but it is more positive that this initiative is being approved today and that the Government is actually committed to having a public and safe planning for voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in the second quarter. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u98	Good day again. We accept the amendment of AGE, and we thank the support of the Joint Group and the BNG for this GNP. We also accept the transaction, Mr. Núñez Centeno. We are going to try to reach some agreement; now, of course, it cannot be subject to the result of that report, because we already know that report. So the audit is going to the hospital's gynecology services, and the hospital's gynecology services won't tell you they're doing it either good or bad, and above all, they're going to tell you they're doing it perfectly, and therefore the result of that report we already know. So if you don't care about that condition, then, of course, we can trade. I think there's, as Carmen Adán said, a subject of minimals. I believe that there must be a minimum agreement in this Parliament to correct the situation that is taking place. It's not that complicated, and it can really be done. I'd like the PP, instead of arguing against it, to say that they're doing it right and insist on all these stories, to recognize that there really are things that are doing wrong, and above all there was something positive to improve it. If we go that way, we'll make a deal. Otherwise, obviously not. Look, the support of the Xynecology Society, the Matron Society and so on, should be as valid as the information the professionals have from the family planning centers, which also belong to the Xynecology Service, are working every day with women and they're saying they're not meeting that protocol. They know perfectly well. Of course, if that protocol exists, I doubt it, nobody taught us, and the professionals who are working don't know it. Of course it doesn't exist. So, I think it's the least we should recognize and what we should go about. I want to insist on the subject of complaints, on what other groups have already said. I don't think you can ask the women... they've pretty much done that once this news comes out, go out to the lecture, talk to them and others -- and you have that experience -- and tell me it's happened too. I think that this should, of course, be useful to understand it as a complaint and as an acknowledgement of what is happening. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, on the request by the Galician Union and the Council of the Crown for the opening of the parish tunnel
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u100	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u101	Mr Trenor has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I do my part with Mrs Ferreiro's words, and I also ask the Alternative Left Gaga and the PSOE that they recognize that they are also sometimes wrong. It's all right, they can say, that they're not always right, and that sometimes they have mistakes that cost citizens a lot. But today we can congratulate, ladies and gentlemen. This Parliament's mandate has never been fulfilled so quickly; we can even talk about preventive compliance. Yesterday, when this plenary began, the mayor announced that the Parish tunnel will be opening this week. It's enough to know that all Galicia will know what sense is happening in the Coruña for the mayor to correct, but for now, ladies, it's just an ad. The People's Party put an end to the Parish hole that left earlier municipal governments with a project that includes a 55,000-square-meter leap between The Navy and The Parrot, a parking lot and an underground vial, which is the solution to mobility in the city centre, while sovereignty is returned to pedestrians and the heritage is recovered. A project that was a result of the effort and dedication of the former municipal government and the spirit of dialogue and cooperation with the rest of the administrations involved, where it happened from a hole of what we all were ashamed of. One of the keys to this project is that it allows the pawn to move smoothly from the galleries of the Navy to the sea, which is an unprecedented urban renewal in the heart of the city; the elimination of more than 30,000 daily surface vehicles on the façade of the Navy, giving continuity to the work that was paralysed in the Parrot. Suppose to recover for citizens 55,000 square meters by sea, in a declared field of cultural interest. This performance allows the pawn to give all the protagonists, projecting a quality public space, designed for citizens, increasing the space for children's games, favoring the visibility of the galleries, protecting the vestiges existing in Porta Real, increasing the green areas and, above all, making them useful and integrated into the space intended for the enjoyment of the neighbors. It draws attention to the fact that most Spanish and European cities have been addressing sustainable mobility projects more than 20 years ago in the heart of their cities and that those who cry for restricting traffic in the center of the cities and for insisting that pedestrians be the ones who are now protesting. The Nationalist Bloc, the Socialist Party and the Tide cannot blow and climb at the same time, claim in all the cities that disappear cars to give protagonists less in the Coruña. It would be good if they made themselves clear: either they bet on cars or they bet on people. The former political leaders left the work in a dead-end call, with an illegal license granted at the Socialist Party stage, without counting on the previous Heritage report. That was the legacy they left: a seal that has been in the center of the city for almost five years. This was the case, because they gave a direct license to build a parking lot without a report of the Galician Union Heritage. And the end of the shame is that those who caused the problem also sought to paralyze the greatest work of urban transformation with demagogic arguments; doublely demagogic, because the Socialist Party also carried this out in its 2011 election campaign. But the effort and involvement of all institutions were imposed on an opposition that chose the path of no, with the sole objective of delaying the work. The collaboration between administrations and seeking the general interest of the former municipal government contrasts with the search for confrontation and sectarianism of the Tide Government. From the first day they tried to boycott this project, intoxicating, deceiving and lying. They made demonstrations, it's true that with very little success: 47 people came to the first, 40 to the second, and 30 to the last they did. They brought the blockade to this Parliament, but most of the Greeks gave it their backs, and they refused their locks. And the biggest blockade is now being done since the municipal government, despite not having won the elections. From the first day, instead of working for the good of the city and the crownings, you threw all your pollution into the other administrations. Only five days after the take of possession the branch consignor announces that he wants to "naturalize" space, gentlemen; shows from the neo-lingual, call naturalize when they mean paralyze. Twenty days later the mayor announces that he wants to modify the financing system unilaterally and the conciliar denounces severe floods as a result of the rush and urgency in the execution of the work. And you have to leave your own mayor's lie; that's yes, twenty days after cross-declarations between the Town Hall and the Harbour Authority. I suppose with the rage of being corrected by his own mayor, the concierge himself threatens to paralyze the works of the Navy by clinging to this time I don't know what problems with the municipal work license. All false. And now the mayor is at least faster and it only takes three days to correct his concierge and announce that he will allow the Navy to open. Without doubt the technical problems, the security doubts of licenses, on September 1st the tide returns to the cargo and now conditions it to the assignment of land, conditions the Parish's opening to land. While calling for transfers, the Town Hall rejects the opening of the marine hospitality sites provided for in the project; places I remind you, lords of the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block, that in their project paralysed by Heritage were 3,000 square meters and that they had to be reduced to 1,100. But the flogging campaign reaches dramatic targets when the municipal government more than doubles taxes, not only to the Harbour Authority but also to the companies that use the port; they even raise them to fishing companies, a rise of EUR 942,000 a year. But there does not end the flogging campaign and in Madrid – the capital of the country – at the most luxurious hotel in Ritz, the mayor compares the investment made in the foreign port with the investment made at Castellón airport. Good patriot! Socialist gentlemen, in reference to your amendment, I am sorry that this is what the Socialist Party's role is reduced to just the Tide Killer. We could think of the cost you agreed to pay Sánchez in another hotel in Coruña – also five stars –. The candidate then boasts of Ferraz's absolute dependence and lack of autonomy for his franchise in Galicia. But you're an accomplice to the Tide, you've chosen this mayor with your votes, and you're also cowards because you didn't want to be in this government knowing that your government was going to be bad. The Harbour Authority receives the works to tunnel the Parish with the conformity of the technicians of the Ministry of Development. Since then, the tunnel is in a position to enter into operation, but the Town Hall has not shown willingness to receive it. And from that point on, more than a hundred days have passed since they circulated more than 1.5 million vehicles across that surface. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the opening depends only on the Town Hall; except, of course, that the local government – as everything seems to indicate – had not planned the traffic and mobility measures that affect the whole area. So far, there is no planning for mobility management solutions to restrict movement on the surface of the Navy, no progress to complete the pedestrianization of the Old City, nor do we know anything yet of the adjudication of the maintenance of tunnels and not of the removal of the fences; fences that cost 5,000 euros for their rent. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, little dialogue and much confrontation. They made the confrontation their way of dealing with the rest of the administration, not just the port. They faced the Ministry of Development with which the great work for this year, the expansion and improvement of Alfonso Molina, budgeted at 10 million euros, an improvement that took thirty years. They also faced the Galician Junta by the intermodal station, putting the new bus terminal in place, instead of prioritising the interest of the citizenry and meeting the agreements. But we are fortunate: the mayor, knowing that this initiative would be supported mostly by this Parliament, announces its opening. But it's amazing? Is it credible, the Tide Government? Is it credible that the Government has made all the art a lie? They lied when they talked about the city's debt and its cost, they lied when they said that they approved thirty licences at each meeting, they lied about social income, about evictions – while they're going down to Galicia, they're increasing in my city, they're increasing in the Coruña; that's right, what's not now in the Coruña are banners – and they lied when they said they wouldn't make smaller contracts, and 95% of the government contracts in the tide are smaller. In any case, and despite the above mentioned, if we gave him credibility, we would be in a way of doing terrible politics. We paralyze, block, confront, tide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u104	...to correct later. This government of change only succeeds when rectified, gentlemen. It's not the first time, but it's his modus operandi. It's happened to the IBI. They wanted to join the IBI's recovery period with the payment of the traffic tax, announcing it when the payment period was over, prejudging all the corrupts, who would have to pay an average of 500 euros in the same month, and had to be rectified, but only after the People's Party had called for a full urgency to deal with this matter, in the same way that they now correct only when the initiative I stand for today is going to be approved. And, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, the local government of the Coruña must stop making excuses that nobody believes and get to work on the garden plan, urbanization, how to restrict surface traffic...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u106	...in the second phase of the final pedestrianization of the Old City, in the reform of the roundabout of the Souls. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the real reason for the delay in opening; the reason is that the tide has not done its work. Stop prejudicing citizens, stop damaging trade and hospitality, and open the Parrot tunnel now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u107	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez García, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u108	Good morning. We don't know much about the sense of this initiative, about when the tunnel will be opened; now, well, what we do know is what the People's Party is afraid of. The majority group, with 41 Members and Members, must come here to Parliament, which is unable to bring the wind sector forward, which is unable to take public road transport forward, which destroys jobs, etc., to oppose the Atlantic tide and opposition to the tides. It's normal for you to be afraid of them, but, Mr. Trenor, the true enemy is not the Tides, the true enemy is what you did in the previous years above all; people have realized and that's why they got rid of Maria Pita. You were talking about the credibility of the Atlantic Sea. The credibility was what Mr. Black and Mr. Julio Flores had with the Pikachu operation, wasn't it? You were very quiet plugging in your friends, using the Town Hall of Coruña as if it were your chiringuit, right? But people have told you enough about corruption, Mr. Trenor, and that's why the Tides do have credibility. You said, very little success in the demands, and they got rid of Maria Pita. And you noticed him angrily because you think that power belongs to them by divine grace, and whenever democratically they dislodge them from power you react anti-democraticly. And if they attack on land, sea and air and boycott from institutions, where they should seek the general interest, governments that are not friends. In that you are experts. See, the City Tides practice a way of understanding the politics that cloudes the word, after the structural corruption of their party has made it a disgust; from there its electoral success. But, in addition to making politics something worthy, they also become something worthy of management; of course, the way you manage the Tide – you, who has as municipal management reference to Rita Barbera – is likely to be incomprehensible to you. But the important thing is not what you look like – who don't have credibility already – is what seems to the citizens and the citizens of Greece. And I'm sure... I know the truth is Scotch, but please let me finish... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u109	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u110	I'm sure these citizens and citizens in Wales don't consider Rita Barberá an efficient management model, as they don't consider an efficient management model to Julio Flores and Black. The municipal governments manage well... – don't be afraid, that you'll get people's votes out; they're already throwing them out, you're past, but they've been able to manage the misery that the irresponsible managers left of the years of waste, you. [[Murmurs.]] The municipal governments manage, but they also politics in the noblest sense of the word to search for new ways that allow our people not to pay for the falculates committed by you. The tide governments will do worse or better in their day, but people, those people who have to decide democratically, when comparing these governments with their governments, say: the tide governments don't steal – that's what people say –; the tide mayors don't flirt with drug traffickers; in the tides there are no mayors like Rita Barbera – a great expert in the management of shame –; a tide mayor doesn't promise sex for work, like the president of the Orense Parliamentary Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And we've already debated what the works of the Parrot tunnel are. We have already told us what those works looked like, for the greatest benefit and glory of friendly companies: conversion of public budgets into private business, de facto privatization of public lands, suppression of parking on the surface, defectation and engeneration of port land, etc; the paradigm of the continuity of the stricter and steeper neoliberal policy. But the works are done and the situation has to be handled effectively and responsibly, and that's what the Government of the Atlantic is doing. A project, that is yes, that transformed the Parrot, the cradle of the city of Coruña, into a private underground parking lot for this company's business, which ended with centenary buildings, like the old health building, work done with electoralist rushes – as citizens pay, and you don't pay, they charge, because they didn't care –... The Marine Tunnel, opened in works last year with numerous filtrations, the Parrot tunnel...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u111	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u112	...with the technical documentation provided by the Harbour Authority on March 15, Mr. Trenor, because the Town Hall demanded to receive a work that meets all the requirements to prevent further damage to citizenship. That's what makes a government responsible and committed to citizenship. On March 15th! On March 15th, did you know the mayor of the Coruña and the Atlantic Sea that you were going to debate this initiative today?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u113	You have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u114	So, Mr. Trenor, the only thing you just proved here is that you're panicking at the tides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u115	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. You have the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u116	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Trenor, I must begin by paying tribute to him because his speech today has impressed me by his argumental strength. But the problem is not that this Member – who today's president of the Union himself was jolly, as if that was a shame and not a positive virtue from the most remote philosophy –... what makes me most surprised is that nothing else to register your initiative entered the panic in the old and noble building of the Town Hall of the Crown and immediately what it had been paralysed years is going to be unlocked from tomorrow. Mr. Trenor, yours is like Cid's: it's enough to teach the weapons to get the enemies out of retreat. It's true that the episode of Cid, so dramatic, so epic, has dubious historicality, but, well, the epic isn't necessarily related to reality. [[Laughter]] Mr. Trenor, what happens is that, said all this, you should withdraw the initiative because you have already achieved the goal, and there is no need to devote half an hour to a debate that is more than resolved by the way of the facts. Now, if you want to speak against the mayor of the Crown, I won't be the one who currently puts obstacles against it. It is true that – we are proving it, the truth, with concern – those who came involved in the idea, speech, the clothing of the new policy, because it seems that the whole new policy consists of not managing, discursing and, if possible, going unnoticed. Well, we don't, of course, share that way of addressing things. But, in any case, Mr. Trenor, if anything remains to be discussed, it is precisely the amendment this group proposes, because you spoke of some historical facts, did not miss the truth, but lacked information in its exhibition. You have failed, for example – and allow me without joy but with responsibility to explain it now to the House – to explain what has happened since 2009, since the very government of Mr Feijóo has arrived. First decision: to appoint a president of the Port Authority of the Coruña, to appoint a president who did not carry out his mission at the front of an institution so relevant economically, but to act as a partisan aristocrat in the service of the most spurious interests of the People's Party. And so it was. From 2009 to 2011, when the municipal elections were held, the Socialist Party ruled the city of Coruña, with the harassment continued from the Harbour Authority and the systematic boycott to all the initiatives of the city. How is it possible for a public company that has a status defined by law and which is mainly due to the development of the port and its economic area to be immersed day by day in a political battle? But, oh, surprise!, the municipal elections change in 2011, comes to rule the mayor of the People's Party, and naturally the president of the Harbour Authority remains silent. Quiet, that's not effective. Because, as you have just acknowledged, since 2009 there have been works that have not been able to be completed either by the Harbour Authority or by the popular mayor who ruled the city from 2011 to 2015, and, in fact, there is the electoral result that they have reaped. But the story doesn't end here. May 2015: again there is a change in the city's government and it begins to rule the Tide. The Harbour Authority shall immediately re-operate by boycotting each and every one of the decisions in which it may intervene. Mr. Trenor, you must have at this stage a minimum of decency in front of the citizens, you must do at least the act of conscience that was done in the city of Vigo and replace a president of harbor authority hooligan and ineffective by a person who at least does not create problems. Because the port, like any local institution, affects the city must be subordinate to the policy that marks the city's government. That's the natural division of competence in this country, that's what you don't tell this House today. I therefore ask you, Mr Trenor – knowing that we share that tunnel, of course, it must be opened, and that the opening date is already announced – to accept – the initiative is maintained – our amendment as an addition to the confidence that we are giving the majority group the opportunity to correct what was undoubtedly a mistake for the last seven years, to cease the current president of the Harbour Authority and place an official who does what he has to do, which is to develop the port and the city. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u117	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u118	Thank you, President. The Parrot tunnel, of which we are talking today – and that, for the latest information, is about to open – is part, along with the Navy, of the starry work of the previous local government of the city of Coruña. We understand that in this work the great beneficiary was the Harbour Authority, because it was built in the property of the port; works carried out by a company, to give the company Copasa, which were given finger, to build the structure of the parking lot on account of the public era; interest to the beneficiary port and to the adjudicatory. This work reflects a classic in Galicia, which are the urban ruins and works lacking economic profitability. We're looking at it, aren't we? Total investment has been recorded in over 50 million, and the specific work we are talking about today has risen by 14 million. We understand it's a real political propaganda, and it's scandalous this spending, especially in an era where it must be invested more rationally. We understand that this work will convert the Parrot, which is an elitist neighborhood and a neighborhood where it seems that they live rich heirs, into a neighborhood that will stand out over the others. Because we understand that the previous local government fostered the classist principle so there are neighborhoods where neighbors and neighbors live that seem to have more rights and deserve more consideration than others. We speak of a work of something more than half a mile between Porta Real and the Castle of San Antón, which burys traffic by eliminating the practical totality of surface circulation and favoring the expansion of the pedestrian spaces. Since Junta it was assumed that it was going to count 55,000 square meters, but it says they're not such. We were sold the increase in the peonil zone at the cost of eating land to the sea. Do we understand that this is a sustainable city model? I don't think so. This area of the city is true that it has most of the pedestrian and restricted areas to traffic in the city of Coruña. We understand that aesthetic level is a sea of cement, an area of tourist access. We understand that peonalization can be achieved by closing four cars to traffic, otherwise enabling measures to progressively reduce the number of vehicles entering the city. In this descent it is important to deploy a nearby train as well, and to take advantage of the existing network of interurban public transport. We don't know if the Parrot tunnel is going to solve the traffic problems it has in this Coruña area. It was a daily traffic of 30,000 vehicles, although it seems that there are no more than 14,000 cars in the Navy. In the meantime, tens of thousands of motorists – especially the people who are going to work – are suffering big jams in other parts of the city. For example, the intersection of Artery Avenue with the Hill Round multiplies by 20, at least, that of the Parrot. We understand that the work, which is about to open and that it is going to do a service, remains a luxury and an investment interested, above all to re-evaluate the heritage assets of the Parrot area. We don't know whether or not we've done a study of the average of vehicles traveling through the stretch of the maritime walk between the Oceanographic Institute and the district of Sleepeiras. What is really important, and it doesn't cost so much, and it's very necessary when talking about a modern and sustainable city, is to guarantee the mobility of all collectives, taking into account the characteristics of this city, and in particular the old part. They'll probably not be so bright or advertising, but they'll probably improve the lives of a lot of people. We understood – and indeed it has been demonstrated – that they were given the same burden as the building of external health, in the gardens of the old fishing fleet, since it seems that it was disturbing. We know that the tunnel will be opened when the Town Hall finds that it is in optimal conditions, a situation that, as we all say, is about to happen. It is true that the work was finished by the end of 2015, and that it was delivered at that time, but it was refused because there were a number of deficiencies. We understand that opening up this tunnel has to break the bad habit that is to open up to the meadows and then, in many cases, to close down to solve problems at the cost of all the money, and not of the construction company. You have to believe the correct infrastructure conditions and the validity of your permissions to allow you to be in service. We know that at the time of its opening it will modify and reorganize what is traffic on the surface, allowing only circulation to those neighbors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u119	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u120	...and neighbors of the Parrot area, public transport and cargo and unloading vehicles. So we understand that, I think it's already obvious, the work will open, but not in the conditions that had to be as appropriate as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera Caselas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Trenor, it's less bad that you're against confrontation, after listening to your fiery intervention. Look, Mr Trenor, I recognize that I am a member of the group that supports the Government must be very boring. Most of the time, the work of the honourable Member is reduced to voting with the Government, applauding what the deputy advisor says or reading the arguments provided by the council. Perhaps to kill boredom, or perhaps because they know they have lost most, the People's Group is relocating in this Parliament to act as an opposition group; in this case as an opposition group to the councils in which it does not govern. But, look, jokes aside, it seems to us a bad way to make politics use the Greek Parliament as a platform for local political battalions. Because the issue they bring here today is a strictly local issue, and that is where we should address ourselves if we act in politics with a minimum of rigor and seriousness. But look, coming into the matter, the BNG is in favour of, once done, if you proceed as soon as possible to the opening of the Parrot tunnel. I say "once done" because we don't think that in a city with 20,000 stops the construction of the Marine and the Parrot tunnels was precisely a priority performance. As soon as the Town Hall had to borrow 12 million euros to cost its construction, almost 5% of its annual budget. Nor do we consider it logical that the Town Hall and the Union, through the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, had to assume much of the cost of tunnels made on land of the Harbour Authority. Look, as far as the Parish tunnel is concerned, we don't know the exact reasons why we haven't opened yet. The Town Hall announced the opening would be imminent. These days the mayor announced it would be even this week. The Town Hall claims legal and technical reasons to justify the accumulated delay, such as the need to solve some security problems associated with tunnel management. But whether or not the reasons for the Council's claim are justified, we believe that the Galician Union has a lot of other things to deal with, especially when its policies have made this country some real foxes. Therefore – I insist – it is a topic that should be addressed at the local level. Look, Mr. Trenor, you're going to bring up local issues, instead of using Parliament as a platform for publishing a report from the Black Government, as you did, we suggest you bring up other issues, since you're assuming so much to defend the interests of the Crown. We suggest, for example, that the Ministry of Defence return freely to the Town Hall and for public use the lands of the Road Camp in Maestranza, because they are communal spaces, the city's own property, which belong to the city from its foundation. They are, moreover, lands that are situated in the field of protection of the defensive system of the city, declared well of cultural interest. And the Ministry of Defence, as you well know, what it's going to do is to subsell the better place these lands to give a real urban platoon, the Ministry of Defence of a Government in functions acting as a real real real estate in the service of urban speculation. So I add that initiatives like these, which, if they really do have to do with defending our heritage and the interests of all corrupts, BNG is going to bring them to this House. And, therefore, we hope that this defense of the Coruña's interests of which you claim to have your letter in favor of this claim. I insist that you stop using Parliament as a political platform for local battalions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u123	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u124	What vehemence, spokespersons! this being necessary accomplices makes them not to be in any good mood. But, Mr. Jorquera, you're here to talk about local initiatives... I don't have fingers in my hand to list all that you bring, all that you bring. Starting – it's the last – by Ence, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, I see you're happy, and, apart from happiness, you've even been quite funny, I don't know if Julius Caesar and Brutus were too. But look, I admire you so much more, so much more. If he was a fervent disciple of Paco Vázquez, he gave a turn of Copernican and is now a defender of the populism of the Tides. I won't accept your amendment, we won't accept it, because we don't enter personal sales. Ladies and gentlemen, shall we receive lessons from the opposition of election results? Do you think, gentlemen of the PSOE, that you are in a position to teach election results? Do you honestly think about it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Jorquera, it is better for you to confluence with the centralist populism, which, if not, I think they have little to go through in this chamber. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, Mr. Sánchez, you didn't win any of the elections. They didn't win in the Coruña, they didn't win, they didn't lie, they didn't cheat, they took less votes than the People's Party. They rule because the Socialist Party gave them their vows. It's true that he gave them his vows, but they didn't trust you and they didn't want to join his government. Ten months ago, since his arrival in the government of some cities, he had consumed 20 percent of his mandate, and they had made the confrontation with other administrations, the inability to manage the day-to-day and the non-compliance of his program the dominant tonic of his management. Fear, Your Honor? No fear. Perhaps the only fear we have of you is the sectarians they are, gentlemen. In the Coruña they have blocked the projects that were in progress and even with budgets, they are unable to approve your budgets this year, there is not a single new project, they have paralysed agreements with social entities, they process half of the licences that a year ago, and this paralysis has its consequences; of course, yes, Mr. Sánchez, consequences in employment, 800 jobs have been destroyed, and the Coruña has stopped being the city of Galicia with less unemployment. Ferrol, a city with 28% unemployment and the concern of its county is the processions of the Holy Week, it's the plebiscite to the monarchy or walking away from the busts, gentlemen. A city without budgets, no urban guidelines, no economic promotion measures, no proposals to reduce unemployment, and they have 28% unemployment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] In Santiago, what are we going to say, if they're not capable or even...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u125	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u126	...to manage school dining rooms? You are the governments of smaller contracts; you are the governments that have no transparency, that do not account to anyone; what officials are doing now their friends are doing for 17,000 euros. 95%... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u127	You have to finish, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u128	...of contracts are minor. They want to double spending on advertising and advertising, they want to double spending on technical assistance. Zero in transparency, gentlemen. They promised to get over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u129	Finish, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u130	...the political life, and on the new policy weighs and remains entrusion: couples, brothers, relatives, party mates, husbands and wives. Ladies and gentlemen, they act motivated by personal preferences, by whims, without taking into account that since June they represent all the neighbors and not those who think only like you. [[Murmurs.]] You are the governments of comedy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u131	Mr. Trenor, please love you!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u132	...and the prepotency. [[Murmurs.]] There's precipitation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u133	Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u134	...and change of decision without reason, without consultation and without...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u135	Mr. Trenor, your time is up. [[Murmurs.]] [[Mr. Trenor López utters words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Trenor, Mr. Trenor! I'll call you in order for the first time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Mr. Trenor, about the AGE amendment? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Peace Franco and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to prevent the expansion of eucalyptus plantations and ensure biodiversity and persistence of the rural environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u136	There were no amendments to this initiative. Mrs. Peace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Given that Mr Trenor has just spoken of caciquism and nepotism, we can rename the bridge as the international bridge of the Parrot, which passes through Ferrol that arrives in Ourense. Mr. Trenor, allow me to keep talking to you. First of all, I hope you will see if the People's Group has a bearing on the electoral campaign that started this morning and we can seriously debate the issues that are coming to this Parliament today. Mr. Trenor earlier said that the issue of Ence was a local subject, and I'm a little surprised, because I think this initiative that we bring here today about the phenomenon of eucalyptization of our country and the consequences it has for our forest model and for our economy shows that it goes far beyond the problem that generates Ence. We could say that this initiative that we bring here today, which is not the Galego Nationalist Block, is an initiative that literally reproduces a proposal that has transferred to us different environmental groups and associations, of defense of the rural environment, of ultimately the right to live in this country, which have signed a manifesto called "Stop Eucalyptus... Forward Carball!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh He said that this initiative, which is very concrete, very modest, is bound to five aspects in its resolution, that in most cases it simply has to do with the regulatory and legal framework that we currently have. However, and insisting that it isn't the Galego Nationalist Block – and that's why I dare make this tremendous assertion that I'm going to do – it's at the heart of our country's forestry policy, it's at the heart of why we have a failed forest model in Galicia. And it's also empirically contrasted that it's a broken forest model for various reasons: forest fires are a symptom of that it's a broken model; the lack of added value of our forest products is evidence that it's a broken model; that we don't have a second transformation of wood evidence that it's a broken model; that we have the territory as we have evidence that it's a broken model; that we cut in Galicia 50%, more than 50% of the wood that's cut across the state, that's only good for shredding and paper paste, and that at the same time we have to import wood for any kind of transformation shows that it's a broken model. It's a broken model because for almost thirty years now, since the existing forest plan has been put in place – by calling it somehow, because we don't know if it's been in force at some point, because we haven't made the investments that were planned in that plan, nor have they been met, nor have we taken the measures to meet any of its objectives – we can say that this forest model, based on an exclusively forest use, based on the disorder we have in our territory and on our mountain, based on the uncontrolled forestry, even of clearly agricultural land, including recently concentrated lands, for which we have spent billions of euros in these processes, because it's a model that doesn't generate wealth for those who should be the recipients of this wealth, for people who live in rural areas. Finally, we could say that it is a model that only benefits woodworkers. But I'm going to go further: almost or the woodworkers, to whom we can almost benefit, we could say that exclusively this forest model is the interests of Ence. A forest model oriented so far to produce wood for paper pulp, and now with the new orientations and the new policy of this Government of Galician Union also producing energy crops, so that Ence is also engaged in the business of producing energy based on biomass. He said the forest plan adopted in 1992 was not met. That, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, was even said by the former advisers of the People's Party in the 2006 Study Commission. All the advisers of the People's Party who came by said that the Forest Plan had not been met, that the People's Party and the Union had never committed themselves to the investments that were necessary for their compliance. But it won't be just saying bad things about the People's Party and the Government of Galician Union either. I'm going to break a spear in favor of the People's Party and I have to admit to them that I am basically a political organization that demonstrates its coherence with its practice. You, coherently, have just given the Age of Sixty years in its concession to remain in the Pontevedra River, and in line with that, are developing a new Forest Plan that will shield this policy to the sole and exclusive benefit of the interests of Ence for at least another thirty or forty years in this country. Finally, you are developing a forest plan and an entire body of decrees and regulatory development of the Mountain Law that will increasingly result in this tremendous eucalyptization in this country. For those who don't have the data, I'm just going to give three data on eucalyptization: one, that in 1972 in Galicia there were 131,000 hectares of eucalypts. In 1997-98, when the second Forest Inventory was made, there were 396,344 hectares, i.e. 28 per cent of the area planted in our country. In 2015 it is estimated that there are half a million hectares of eucalyptus plantations; many of them could be called spontaneous or adventurous, which are born spontaneously after forest fires, because, as all of you know, it is a pyrophytic species that takes advantage of its proliferation precisely, among other things, of forest fires. That is why we explain the situation and the problem, among others, for this reason that we have in our country. There's a fact that I didn't know and I've learned about this initiative of these organizations, and that in Galicia we have more than 52% of the eucalyptus on the whole peninsula, not Spain, not the Peninsula. But the Peninsula has 53% of the eucalyptus in the world. We have more eucalyptus here than in Australia!, more eucalyptus here than in Australia, which never ceases to be really picturesque. That is why we with this initiative – I insist, not us, but the organizations that promote this manifesto – what we want today to put to the vote are five very simple questions that should, at least, be approved. It is more than that, as in some of the demands is strict compliance with legislation, we are even willing and willing to vote on them by points, because I suppose no parliamentary group will be against compliance with legislation. The first point is that the German Autonomic Administration has to give instructions to all public employees to comply with regulations, both the Mountain Law and the Nature Conservation Act and the Back Law, to prevent eucalyptus plantations from being planted where they cannot be done, and they are being done. We could bring here fifty thousand photographs of river channels, that we don't meet the 15 meters that mark the Mountain Law, we could bring agricultural lands, we could bring land of partial concentration, we could bring enclaves into oak trees, we could bring enclaves into pine trees, where according to the law is forbidden and eucalyptus being planted. So let the laws be fulfilled. The second point – I suppose the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party will be in favour of – is to make some necessary regulatory changes to prevent the restoration of natural spaces protected by eucalyptus. I suppose we'll all understand that if for something we protect some natural spaces, because they have certain ecological, environmental, wildlife values, etc., we'll have to preserve those values, and therefore we can't plant eucalyptus. Third: perform actions for the elimination of the victorious eucalyptus. There is a provision in Law 42/2007, of natural heritage and biodiversity, which states that Victorian plantations must be eliminated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u139	...that is, the spontaneous proliferation of alien species, as is the case of the eucalyptus. Finished, one second, Madam President. Fourth: regulate the creation in Galicia also of a catalogue of exotic and invasive species, which does not exist, and which, of course, are not the same exotic species in Murcia as in Galicia. And fifth: to promote the urgent adoption of measures to protect, protect and promote the existence of native forests, while prohibiting the planting of Eucalyptus nitens in the wake of a judgement by the National Court, which agrees that it can be prohibited, whenever there is a report by the Scientific Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture which clearly declares it serious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u140	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u141	...for biodiversity, invasive and having serious consequences for the natural environment. We believe that these are issues – as I said – of minimums, but they are important, not to change the forest model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u143	...but yes to brake that we continue to advance in a failed forest model, in a forest model against the economic interests of the country and in a forest model that is a genuine environmental aberration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u145	Thank you, President. We're demonizing the tree of the eucalyptus, but what can't be attributed to this tree is a conflict that has to do with planning, repopulation, forestry and exploitation techniques, that is, with human activity itself. As the companion of the BNG said, in the third national forest inventory in Galicia in 1997 and 98 the pure mass eucalyptus occupied a total area of 174.210 hectares on our land. But this data is not concrete at all, since it was not contemplated that surface where it appeared mixed with the sea pine and other species, and which tends to evolve towards masses dominated by the eucalyptus. Today this figure is true that it's about five hundred thousand acres. The large eucalyptus plantations are authentic deserts where only this tree survives, because biodiversity in the place cannot adapt to this invasive species and tends to disappear. The soil loses its wealth and the animals are unable to adapt to the new environment, so they disappear from the place. The problem is exacerbated by the introduction of the Eucalyptus nitens, which is eating the soil to the Eucalyptus globulus, because the first one presents a favorable condition that is much more resistant to the plague of the gurgullum that is destroying the globulus and also supports a situation at a height above a 400-meter quota, so it is expanded in a vertiginous way inside this country, which was free from this tree and comes to replace the pine plantations. It is an exotic and naturalized species in expansion, with a high risk of invasion and very dangerous for the maintenance of biodiversity and ecosystem functionality, for its ability to proliferate in strict thermal conditions, even appears within the Nature Network itself. The Greek mountain community organization suggested the total ban on Eucalyptus nites plantations in Galicia. It is criticised that since the Forest Council itself, the new Galician Forest Plan has been carried out following the guidelines of the wooden and the Ence companies, essentially, and not taking into account the specificities of the Greek mountains. This Galician forest plan has been in force since 1992 and it can be said that this standard has consistently violated its own guidelines, except for the creation of forest districts. Regarding the determination in the 1992 Forest Plan, the area of Eucalyptus globulus exceeded widely and new areas dedicated to Eucalyptus nitens were created. For the review of this forest plan, a working group was created at the Forest Council, which met last year. But it must be noted that most of the members of the Forest Council were representing the wood sector and that the promise to incorporate the results of the consultations into the document was not fulfilled. The methodology used by the German Government was also criticised in drawing up and discussing the plan, where the guidelines that were initially approved are neither representative of the sector, nor democratic, nor a product of consensus between all sectors related to the mountain and the rural environment. The new Forest Plan is the privatization of mountain management, betting on the production of low-value added wood and the preference of forest production, based on indiscriminate planting and even promoting environmental degradation; that is, a exploitation of the mountain of colonial type, eskimoing resources where they are given, does not generate surpluses for people living in place, is doing business in political decision-making centers. It is intensification of production with monocultures of alloctone species, use of coastal forests or massive use of agrotoxics, forgetting the objective of preserving soils and mitigating the impacts of climate change. It's an attack on neighboring mountains, degradation of land or loss of soil, abandonment of land by people and persistence of forest fires. It's true that you bet on forest biomass, that you warn this, and on energy crops to produce electricity, which is another one of the Ence business. Mortgage the future of the Greek mountains. There are no initiatives to recover the usurped agricultural area. The maintenance of public subsidies to the eucalyptus, consolidating the Eucalyptus globulus and allowing the Eucalyptus nitens to replace the first. We must boost a functional and sustainable mountain that is tailored to the demands of the headlines and the headlines and the demands of society as a whole. Tree plantations are not forests, they don't own any part of the vast biodiversity that owns forests and they don't offer anything to the people. If I also wanted to point out one of the consequences of the eucalyptus wood industry itself, which is because of the type of work, of the forest rose, which also makes real attacks on cultural heritage, which are not made isolated, tearing down with rocks and marbles, and it seems that they have total complicity with the authorities. If it's important as a very urgent measure, at least apply the current law, which is not being complied with. And we agree that the creation of the Catalan Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species should be demanded and also urge the Government of the State to modify the Spanish Catalogue of Invasive Exotic Species, to include the Eucalyptus nites itself as an invasive species in the catalogue approved in Royal Decree 1628/2011. We understand that urgent measures must be taken to protect the native forest. And a very important measure would be an application of a forest didactic information to owners and owners on plantations of eucalyptus nitens. From the Joint Group if we're going to pass this non-law proposal because we consider...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u147	...which is at stake the natural wealth of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, Mr Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u149	Clearly, the problem is never a plant species, the problem is not the eucalyptus, the problem is the policy and the problem is the choice of model, the absence of management, the absence of planning and the search for different goals than we think are most convenient for the country. If forest policy is planned simply focused on the sale of paper pulp, it is clear that we will come out of a different mountain model than if our goals are the creation of a diversified mountain, complementary to agricultural and tourist activities, with a multifunctional set of job creators and added value. It's very different from a model we've developed in Galicia. By the way, Isabel Tocino and Carlos del Alamo, members of the board of directors of Ence, at the time, in the 1990s, had the ability to decide to plan the plantations of eucalyptus in the Italian and Spanish fields, as they were Minister and Environmental Adviser. When forest policies were defined, when grants were given to reforest land, they were deciding, and today they're at the board of directors of Ence. So the goal of the People's Party for Galicia was precisely what we have today: a model focused on selling paper pulp, a model based on quantity rather than quality, a model that creates little employment and an unplanned and unplanned model. In fact, we denounced during the planning of the Law of the soil that many forest masses of decidifoli and leafy are deprotected, because it defines both the specially protected forested spaces as well as those of neighboring mountains in man common and a land map, a catalogue of forest-interested soils; catalogue and map that don't even exist. After so many years, we don't even have soil maps to sort and plan where these species can be and where it's counterproductive for general interest that these species are. They didn't even do the least. And so we have a model that in figures shows what it is, that is, we have 68% of the surface, we have 50% of the state cuts and we have created only 13% of the state's forest employment. That's the perfect definition and the perfect demonstration that this isn't a model that interests us. We're interested in a model for Galicia that creates much more jobs, that makes rural population, that creates added value, that creates a transforming industry around it. And that's why we denounce once again that the People's Party, although you can say beautiful words here about it, is designing a Galician forest plan without that multifunctional vision, without that diverse view of the mountain. Of the twenty-five agents who are working on the forest plan twenty are from the forest sector. They must be those agents of the forest sector, but we believe that a much larger fan of collectives and people who could be thinking about the tourist model, the agricultural model, who could also be thinking about biodiversity, the conservation of biodiversity as wealth for this country, and who were also thinking about the water cycle, for example, and the effects that cause the uncontrolled proliferation of eucalyptus plantations. Once again we started making the approach in a wrong way. In a wrong way, we say, because we still think that the People's Party intends to turn this country into something different than it is today, when – as we said before – people have to go looking for opportunities outside and, above all, they have to go from rural precisely because the models that are developing both in milk and forest expel people from rural. That is why we support this initiative because it goes that way. The problem is not the eucalyptus, the problem is the policies of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u150	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. We have an initiative here that puts once again on the table the concern of an old problem, not because of the old less important problem, which is or has been the cause of controversy and discussion for a long time and that as a country so far we have not been able to solve. I think, of course, and it's the first of the elements, it's a problem that needs long-term measures and, above all, a planning, an active and sustained policy over time. Therefore, with the governments of the People's Party speaking of active politics, sustained in time and planning, it is counterproductive. Indeed, today we have in Galicia about five thousand hectares occupied by eucalyptus, which means more than half of the existing ones throughout the state. This in itself would not be the most serious, being serious the problem. The main problem for us lies in that we have that amount of hectares without knowing very well or why, or why, or why we've planned it like this. It's more: the president of the board himself said recently here in parliamentary headquarters that we would have enough trees for two more pastors; that is, there is therefore no planning, and we don't know very well why we have them or why we have them. There is no need for a very rigorous study to come to the conclusion that, indeed, there was a clear business strategy, based on disproportionately increasing the supply, so that the price would fall, and counting on inoperability, and therefore the complicity of the People's Party Government, historically and sharply with Mr. Feijóo in the past eight years, and that lack of politics, therefore, is confined to the politics of Ence in its broads. It seems, therefore, of course, not only because of an ecological problem, not only because of a landscape of monoculture, not only because in certain areas it seems clear that it is not the best way to make fire prevention, but also because of a purely economic issue. We're clearly surpassed in the offer of this species, which makes it even endanger its economic viability. But we can't forget that if these 500,000 hectares are relevant, for us they're still, if they fit, more relevant too, or so relevant, the 600,000 hectares that we have unproductive. So being important these 500,000 hectares, the serious problem is that we have 600,000 hectares of totally unproductive mountains. If once and for all we solve this endemic problem and we get out of this eternal loop that actually, as was said here before, despite having the largest forest area in the state, with a lot of difference, despite cutting half the trees, actually, we don't have a second transformation industry, and the income and benefits left by the forest industry are far from having an equalization to the amount we have; if we get out of that loop, as I said before, there are no factories specialized for another type of wood because there are no plantations, or there are no plantations of other types of wood because there are no specialized industries that favor them and that implant them. We therefore agree with this initiative, and indeed, as Mrs Peace said, mainly because it comes to many of the initiatives we bring here, which are summarized in the fact that legislation is being complied with. So, if there is legislation, even if it is better, there is a legislation that should limit and should prohibit eucalyptus planting in certain areas, but a legislation that is not in every light, and that obviously the Administration does nothing to accomplish. But, as we have stated in the Commission and we also want to make it clear here, we will ask for a point vote, because indeed we do not agree exactly in that diagnosis in the discussion of nitens or globulus, and therefore we will ask for a point vote. We won't support that point. We didn't exactly agree with the diagnosis because first, in the new plantations of the last five or ten years, 75% of what was planted was nites, and therefore it seems to us somewhat unrealistic to think about eradicating them and baning them. And it is an opinionable matter, but for us this species is no more exotic or invasive than any other type of eucalyptus, unless we understand, as I said in the Commission, that it is more invasive because it adapts better to certain areas and resists certain plagues. But if that were to be solved by the way of management and prohibition, and to enforce legislation, we would have perfectly saved that supposed invasion, or that greater invasion of this species of nitens over the globulus. So that's where we think we have to inciting. We are not going to be – and that is understood as such – the defenders of the nitens species. It doesn't make sense, besides, because it's less profitable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u153	So we're not talking about a species that is more profitable for producers. It's less profitable also for pastors, and it's less efficient, in terms of wood, for sawmills, much less than pine. So it has absolutely no economic advantage, but rather quite the opposite, and so what we have to do is try to comply with the legislation, to improve this legislation, because it needs to be improved in many respects, to prevent it from continuing to plant eucalyptuses and that it is effectively forbidden to plant eucalyptus in certain areas, without entering into discussion, which, from our point of view, we do not agree with that little nuance, whether it is nitens or globulus. We will therefore call for a point vote, and we hope that the group will grant it, because the rest of us fully agree with this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u154	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please look at the time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u155	I don't think I'm the biggest exponent in going over time in the full, there are quite more exaggerating examples here than my own, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u156	Thank you, Mr. García. Look at your time, watch your watch, watch your watch For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Peace, the Government of Galicia and the majority parliamentary group in this House – the People's Group – we understand that the solution of the problems of the Galician mountain is not about the indiscriminate prohibitions that you want to do, but about the rational management of resources, supported by instruments of management or forest management, in which both the majority group in the House, the People's Group, and the Government of Galicia are already working, and I will demonstrate this throughout this intervention. And if you had listened to the interventions in Commission 7th, Agriculture and Mountains, the various representatives of the Government of Galicia, and had followed up on the latest developments in the legislative field which periodically published the Official Journal of Galicia, it would have meridionally made clear the concern of the Board for the management and promotion of our mountain as a better guarantee and also as a future. There are multiple initiatives of the Government of Greece, I will quote some of them, to bet on a more orderly and sustainable mountain, promoting the use and exploitation of woodland species that are our own. To begin with, I have to tell you, Mrs. Peace, that it is not true – and I repeat, it is not true – that eucalyptus may be planted on any land. In fact, article 67 of the Galician Mountain Law, when it speaks of the conditions that must be met by forest restockings, prohibits forest repopulations in urban soil of the rural nucleus, in demarcated urbanized soil and in the rustic of special agricultural protection. And it also forbids it in those densely populated areas, even after its use or its impact on a forest fire. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But it is also that, as we are aware in the People's Group and in the Government of Galicia also that in large areas of the territory of Galicia they are neither viable nor desirable for eucalyptus plantations, the Council has driven forestry models for this genre since 2014 into seven of the forest districts in which Galicia is divided, and partly also in the district 9. And he's working, he's working on a draft decree that regulates plantations with the Eucalyptus genre, throughout the autonomous community. And from this project and from this decree you've heard of the Forest Council at your December meeting. And besides, even rational management of the eucalyptal masses is also being dealt with in the planning work of the Galician Forest Plan, which began with the establishment of a working group which, in a consensual manner, proposed guidelines that will serve as a reference for the review of the plan and will be included in the next Forest Council. And what doesn't make sense is that you play criminalizing certain forest species, because I, who am from the Lugo Navy, tell you to go to the Labour Council -- but there you don't have representation, so you can't send notice, you have to go, you might as well, and you tell them about the eucalyptus as you speak here. Go to the Town Hall of Barriers and tell them about the eucalyptus as you speak here. You go to a council that you rule with an absolute majority, of the few who rule in Galicia, and of the few who rule in Lugo, which is the council of Ribadeo, and tell the mayor of Ribadeo to talk about the eucalyptus as you speak here. You'll see how the mayor of Ribadeo does not speak of the eucalyptus as you speak here. You know why? Because the mountain, which is Galicia's best ordered mountain, one of Galicia's most productive mountains, which is in the Lugo Navy, was precisely a source of wealth, and continues to be a source of wealth, which in times of crisis has sustained many families of the Lugo Navy. And it was the base of the eucalyptus. And I can't, for nothing, agree with you – I've told you once again – that the eucalyptus is a problem with the Ence. No, the eucalyptus is a problem of wealth for many Greeks and Greeks. And it's more, you go to the Town Hall too, and you'll see a factory there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u159	...a factory that is tiptoe, which all works – and all orders out of Galicia and out of Spain – is with eucalyptus wood, which is Madeiras Villapol. It's good that you pass by and take a look at all of this, and go away because there's no representation there. But where they have representation, tell the mayor of Ribadeo that he defends what you stand for in the Galician Parliament, that they rule there with most absolute majority, and you'll see how the mayor of Ribadeo disagrees with that. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u160	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u161	Thank you, Mr. President. It's always a good luck to have Professor Balsairo so that one of us can read the DOG, since it seems like the rest of us don't read the DOG. I would like to begin by saying, firstly, that this is not a debate about species, it is not a debate about plant species, but, indeed, about forest models. And if we propose on this initiative, as we have already proposed in others, that it should be forbidden in Galicia to plant eucalyptus nites, it is because that committee of experts states that it is invasive because it has the ability to transform the environment, and because it blocks ecosystems. We therefore consider this to be a serious attack on our natural, economic, etc. wealth. And for another reason, because Mr. Balsairo somewhere on my initiative must have read that we proposed that all the eucalyptus from the Navy should be removed. Therefore, I have no problem, if you invite me to go to Work – that you are sure you have representation, and then your hand will have no problem going there. I tell you about the eucalyptus here without any problem, and in Ribadeo and anywhere else in the territory of this country, I have no problem. Because we never said here that the eucalyptus should be removed in those well-ordered places. What we're saying is that this country can't continue to have a forest model just to favor Ence. Because here, where we produce 52% of the state eucalyptus, we have 52% of the surface, it turns out that if any of you want in your house to put on an eucalyptus frieze floor, there's no eucalyptus in Galicia that's worth that, and we have to import it. So it's a failed forest model, failed because it doesn't allow transformation, and because it's only designed to supply paper pulp, and so much wealth, to Ence. And why do we think there's a ban on nites? Because precisely that illustration that Mr. Balsairo of the Order made to me of May 19, 2014, so that crops are ordered, the forestry models, establishes that in all districts of Galicia, less in a couple of municipalities in the center of the mountain of Lugo, and other than those of Ourense, anywhere in the territory, you can plant eucalyptus and you can plant nitens. And if you continue to allow the nites, we will end up having nites up to the top of the mountain, where so far there could be no eucalyptus because the globulus doesn't adapt. And that's why we want, among other reasons, to forbid it. I'm sorry the People's Party disagrees, because it says we don't know the law. Well, you see we don't know the Mountain Law, so at point 1 of the initiative, what it says is, "To urge the Board to tell all its public employees that they must be diligent by starting files and establishing sanctions that are established in the Mountain Law, in the Back Law and in the Nature Conservation Law, so that in those places where reforestation is already forbidden with eucalyptus of the type is done and with other species – but here we're talking about eucalyptus – is done." Because it's not like you can put it everywhere, Mr. Balsairo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u163	...but you are the Mountain Law – as almost all of you – only when you want it, the rest of your time are objects. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members, on the establishment by the Government of Greece of the necessary regulatory mechanism to prevent the execution and distribution of photographic images of minors during the institutional and political acts carried out in the educational centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u165	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u166	Mr Vázquez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u167	Well, good morning. Thank you very much, Mr. President. In mid-February, the Gaga de Left Alternative received a warning from the House's legal services – this House – about the need to reformulate the initiative we are debating today. The lawyers considered – and from our point of view they considered it to be correct – that it was necessary to reform the initiative, since it contained the image of young children and therefore violated the regulatory framework in relation to confidential data protection laws, in general, but also, of course, of minors. We have reformed the initiative, and this is the one that appears with the brushed faces – we have stated it – in the parliamentary plenary documentation that has been distributed to all groups, and that surely the honourable ladies have had time to check. The initiative, therefore, contains images that have been published on the board of Galicia's website, contains images that have been published in the newspapers of Galicia, in government institutional acts and in several visits to Galicia's educational centres; therefore, they are public images. In the first, which is on the initiative, you can observe the President of the Government and the Education Adviser sitting in a manner – from my point of view – ridiculously in two desks three smaller sizes, attentive, apparently, to a class, that is, with the clearly visible faces of the younger students and also, yes, with lustful computers opened in the desks. In this institutional visit, no kind of educational content announcement was made, on the other hand, or any kind of initiative was introduced, simply the president and the advisor were doing what is called "making the photo." In the second image, this already known, known as the photo by Palomares of the councillor, in the midst of a crisis of school dining catering and in the middle of an election precipitate, the councillor attended a school dining room to eat and show the goodness of catering food. That's right, also in a picture where they appear, clearly visible and identifiable, young children during their lunch. In the third picture we have the opportunity to see the Education Adviser welcoming a frightened child who is brought to his arms, in which you can also appreciate in the background the identifiable images of his classmates. They are just a sample of the hundreds of photos that government members carry out each year in educational centers in Galicia, but not only in educational centers – although this initiative is confined to this issue – but also in special education centers and dependency centers, seriously affecting, from our point of view, the right to privacy and the privacy of children and adults. I insist, I'm just a sample, we obviously have nothing against whether the Education Adviser or whether the President of Galicia goes and visits an educational center. Moreover, we consider this to be his obligation, to carry out field work, to visit the centers, to make politics, as it is said, at the foot of work. But that doesn't have to be collected by the graphics media, nor does it necessarily have to be accompanied by public appearances surrounded by children or children. We believe that this clearly exceeds minimally well-intentioned political action. We ourselves also visit educational centers every week and will not find a picture where a Member or Member of the Alternative Gaga de Left picks up an image surrounded by children or young children. Moreover, the directors of public schools tell us, repeatedly, and insist, that if we take any picture, there is no child or child in front of us. How curious!, you must not make the same recommendation to the President, or perhaps the President has the ability to emphasize that recommendation. The Personal Data Protection Act establishes the protection of minors by prohibiting the public dissemination of any numerical, alphabetic, graphic, photographic, acoustic or other information concerning identified or identifiable persons. So the photos I've just shown you are going through the law very clearly. Royal Decree 1720 provides that the consent of their parents or guardians shall be required for the processing of personal data for minors of 14 damage. In fact, in order to comply with this royal decree, educational centres refer families to a request for permission to publish and use the image of minors in the teaching materials of the centre, and in character and purpose exclusively educational, such as the school magazine, the illustration of educational units, the website of the center itself; as is usual in educational centers. And it seems obvious that the political acts of the Government are out of this authorization, that is, when a father or mother authorizes him to take a picture of his son in an educational center, he does not do so to be employed in an institutional or political act of the members of the Greek Government, this seems obvious. So the use of children's images with political intent on the part of the Government, from our point of view, is absolutely immoral, not only illegal. We have talked – and we have done so often in this House – about the need for a democratic regeneration, and we have also talked repeatedly about a manifest lack of confidence in public institutions and their representatives by citizenship. But from my point of view it is often forgotten that every political act must be presided over by something which is – at times very ethereal but also very solid – ethics. And by many codes, by many standards, by many laws that we approve, we will never be able to move forward if we leave ethics aside. Your lordships will agree that the photos I have just shown in this House are far from political ethics. The use of minors for supportive purposes is also illegal, in addition to immoral, from our point of view is absolutely indecent; and therefore it is contrary to the most basic ethical values that must have a public office. But in addition to this issue, in addition to being a clearly censored fact from this point of view, the use of photos with children and with children by public officials is something already hated by citizenship. No longer with him, people no longer take these kind pictures of a public office hugging or taking a child in the lap, and they don't understand that it has to be, of course, part of their political performance; no longer with it, people are tired. And we therefore believe that this House has an obligation to preserve the image and the rights of minors, it also has an obligation to ensure compliance with the regulations in this respect, which is very clear and very concrete. And for all this, we believe that even if we are not able to reach these great agreements that are so often requested in this House, even if we are not able to agree on too important things, at least in this matter we should be able to agree. We must be able to defend the right of protection, the right to protect the image of minors. And that is why we consider an ethical commitment by this House to urge the Government of Greece to establish the necessary regulatory mechanisms to prevent, once and for all, the taking of photos of minors during institutional and political acts in educational centres. And to also establish the necessary regulatory mechanisms to avoid public presences in the media by institutional or political officials in public schools with the presence of a minor student. We believe that this is a reasonable request, we believe that it is a reasonable request and that, therefore, it must be welcomed, in this case, by the majority group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u168	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u169	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning to all. Mr Vázquez, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this initiative because of legality, yes, because there is a law that somehow recognizes this type of thing since 1999. And it's no less important, too, that we're going to do it by ethics and aesthetics. We're going to go to parties, and I want to do it starting with legality. I want to tell all of you, ladies and gentlemen, that they are increasingly parents and mothers of younger pupils who request a restricted use of their children's images in the Greek educational centres. This situation that has required school and high school management teams in recent years to take this matter into account in registration documents, and to request, even in writing, the use of images of pupils and minors on the websites of schools or even in activities of an extra-school or complementary nature. Therefore, the Socialist Group believes that this situation – which has not always had this degree of exigencies in society – must be arranged to avoid problems in educational communities. And the solution should necessarily go through the development of a new organic regulation of educational centres more tailored to the needs and demands of today's society, which are obviously not the same as those of the late 20th-century society; in particular, the demands that the ROC contemplated in 1997. And from there comes, precisely, Mr Vázquez, our amendment to this initiative, which we understand to be an addition amendment and which can complement what you are presenting. But we don't want to let this opportunity pass, ladies, to talk today a little about ethics and aesthetics in a matter like this. I will not, on behalf of the Socialist Group, tell you in Parliament that Mr. President of the Board and Mr. Education Counsellor do not have all the legitimacy of the world to make the visits that they consider appropriate to the Greek educational centres, but to tell you that these visits must be made in respect of legality and observing ethical and aesthetic behavior in accordance with the demands of today's society. A society which compulsively uses images of minors on social networks and which, on the contrary, has a very different measuring rod if that happens in school life. Legality, therefore, we've already talked about how to solve it, with a new organic settlement of centers. As for ethics and aesthetics, I want to tell you, ladies, that one thing is to visit an educational center to meet their needs and know on-the-spot their needs, and a very different one to take advantage of these visits to make political propaganda. Five Members and Members who are here today in this House we visited together a school centre in Lugo a few days ago at the time of recreation, and we did not take any pictures of children in the centre, precisely the request of the director of the centre and of the ANPA itself. We did our job without needing to use minors. So things can be done if you behave ethically and aesthetically. We therefore believe in the Socialist Group, ladies and gentlemen, that the time has come to address the changes needed in the OCR in order to adapt it to the current circumstances. It is necessary to address new situations: harassment in the networks; management of extra-school and complementary activities; use of mobile or recording telephony electronics; management of student strikes; installation of cameras inside buildings and courtyards; attention to the cultural, racial or religious diversity of students and their families; the overload of the teacher with certain tasks that they understand are not competent to them; management of leisure times, and also, like no?, the management that today deals with the use of images of children. Ladies and gentlemen, we could continue to list different cases that are causing difficulties in our schools and institutes, but I understand that there are enough examples given for the subject to be clarified. I insist that we have a ROC which dates back to 1997 and which was valid at that time, but the causes have changed significantly in the last nineteen years. The directors and directors of the Greek educational centres have persistently asked for those changes in the OCR to adapt it to today's needs. The Socialist Group therefore considers that the time has come to face this change and to do so with a broad consensus with the educational community as a whole. We have to be able to make a new OCR, adapted to today's times and needs, a OCR that collects, in short, the feeling of our educational community as a whole and that ensures, seriously, the so soft and caching autonomy of the centers. Different things are the ethics and aesthetics of the politics itself and of the people we've spent on this important public service in a timely manner. Those, ethics and aesthetics, you don't need to regulate them, ladies and gentlemen, just practice them every day if you really want to regain the prestige of politics and politicians. Therefore, Mr Vázquez, you will count on the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u170	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u171	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, President. Preparing the plenary, when I arrived at this initiative, on Sunday 27 I was surprised to read this news: "Education carries out a protocol to clarify how to treat images and data from students. The Education Council presented to the Galician Council a protocol for the protection of personal data; a reference guide with which it aims to clarify the doubts that arise between the management teams and teachers of schools and institutes on the use of images, the management of personal data in the case of parents who are not married, the use of video surveillance cameras or the transfer of data. The document, which will still collect contributions from board members, defines specific guidelines for the educational community, so that they have more legal certainty in the management and processing of personal data. For example, it specifies that data from the parent cannot be obtained through the minor, and it is expressly forbidden to collect those from the labour situation." Well, this came after having this initiative presented by the Left Gaga Alternative Group, and I think this was done by the People's Party for itself, because the privacy of minors in educational centres has been covered by law for a long time, and it is also strictly respected in them, as well as the exhibition text of this PNL, in relation to the use of images of students in school activities of a play-educational nature and their publication on the websites of the centers, boards and school newspapers. This is to heal in health. I say it'll be for that. It is that, in fact, the partisan use of children and children, especially when it is done in schools, taking advantage of the fact that these minors and minors are forced to attend and respect the initiatives of the management of the centre, without the knowledge or authorization of mothers and parents, is a fraud and disloyalty to the confidence that society puts in political and public officials; a lack of plurality and the right to think differently at a given time. And it's not his opinion, it's the statements of a militant from the People's Party in Catalonia before the referendum for the right to decide. If you want, I repeat to you the words of this member of the People's Party: The partisan use of children and children in schools, making use of which they are obliged to attend and respect leadership initiatives, etc. It's fraud and disloyalty. Member of the People's Party in Catalonia. There is no doubt, moreover, that the intention is propaganda, the intention of these images and similar ones that they want – they claim, they do not succeed, but they intend to convey the supposed favourable positioning to the educational policies of the People's Party by families and educational centers. They are strategies of the most rancio and populism banana, which shame those who contemplate them and should also shame those who star them. I hope you're not a part of this kind of propaganda, this kind of campaign. Do you remember those images of Bush in a school when it was the attack, also campaigning populist, reading a story about the reverse at a school and not learning about the attacks? And they're the same images! The face of the councilman and the face of the President of the Government of Galicia lends itself to this kind of publicity campaign, which truly shames me, as a Welshman and as represented. If you want to attend school, I think it's very nice. But they attend and meet the demands of the ANPA, and they don't take advantage of the fact that these children there can't decide whether or not they leave. I don't know who was responsible, whether the paper or the People's Party. But, of course, the People's Party should not lend itself to these kinds of campaigns. Really, don't look at me like that. You have to share this opinion. I'm convinced you share this view. Well, the Joint Group will support the initiative, of course. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u172	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u173	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vázquez, I shall begin by saying that the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has many coincidences with the non-law proposition that you have just defended here from the stage. We agree with you that the protection of minors is undoubtedly one of the main obligations of the public authorities, particularly of the Welsh Educational Administration. We also agreed on the need to preserve your image, both graphic and photographic, as well as how to protect the privacy of minors and their personal data. We agree that sometimes images of minors from our educational centres – images that then flood Galician newspapers and televisions – are used for propaganda and empty educational or educational events. We agree, in the end, that sometimes, on a recurring basis, there are public appearances, with the presence of children and children of minor age, to advertise to the media announcements with clear advertising and propaganda, even by the Government of Galicia. Of course, the BNG Parliamentary Group strongly rejects the use of the image of children for advertising or propaganda purposes. Uses that, in our understanding, are against the right to preserve their own image. We reject it, of course, whoever does it. He's got to be a conchler, even if he's from education, as well as the education councillor. We must be both a Member or a Member of this House and a Member of the Congress of Members. He has to be the mayor of a council as well as the president of the Galician Union. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, understands that all public offices must ensure and protect the processing of personal data, including photos and images, and the personal privacy of minors. We must, of course, reject the use of images of children and children for the purpose – to our understanding – illegitimate. For that reason, our support for the Greek Parliament is already in the forefront of urging the Greek Government to establish the necessary regulatory mechanism to avoid the use and abuse of children's images for advertising, propaganda, partisans and illegals. We do so out of respect that we deserve the protection of minors and minors, as well as the right to preserve their privacy. I respect, by the way, that it already existed over ninety years ago, when, through the statement commonly known as the Geneva Declaration, men and women of all nations, recognizing that children are the best that humanity has, declares and accepts as its duty, beyond any consideration of race, nationality or creed, that the child should be given the necessary means for its normal development. The child must have sustained and protected against all kinds of exploitation. It was a long time ago, but there were UN agreements and there are existing data protection agreements in this country, and a real decree that develops it. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, calls for respect for all representatives of this Parliament on this subject. As far as we understand it is compatible with the advice and even the President of the Government visiting public education centres to know the educational reality of our country, to know the difficulties, to listen to the demands of the educational community, to solve the many difficulties and needs that go through public education and even to value the quality of our public education. But we also understand that respect, for us, is not compatible with propaganda advertising. For example – you said in your exhibition – to fix the problem of catering from dining rooms with poor food, we consider it much more appropriate to recover the direct public management of these dining rooms to offer products of proximity and quality, to ensure a nearby cooking, than a photo of the advisor eating, or making him eat, a soup with the students surrounding it. I don't know if the counselor has been guided by that saying is worth a picture of more than a thousand words. But I, Mr. Vázquez – and finished – tell you that on the subject of the images, instead of that saying, I think the counselor should think that there is no better word than the one you are about to say. We support – and finish – the non-law proposition that you just defended here. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u174	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We bring here today an act that counts with all the congratulations of the educational community, which is strictly related to the current legislation, and which is quite clear that, if you had to reformulate your initiative, it was because you didn't count on the necessary permissions to be able to distribute pictures of minors without permission, something that didn't happen, precisely in this or any of the acts that no member of the Government of the People's Party celebrated. Absolutely none. The government respects the minors. Watch, in addition, and see why legality is respected as to the publicly advertised image of minors, their privacy, their rights, their data, absolutely all of them. There's absolutely nothing you can attribute to any of the words or accusations you've seen here for free today. Among other things, you may question whether such protection is true or not, but you have just demonstrated it by the Government of Greece in another recent action, sending the Galician Council of Convivence the draft protocol to bring in and make its approach, from their point of view, and striving for a law that we have here also in Galicia to protect the image of minors. That protocol, by the way, comes from an initiative that the People's Parliamentary Group has presented in this House. It is also a parliamentary mandate that re-enforces the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination. But this initiative did not count on the favourable vote of any of the members of any of the opposition party groups. He left with only the votes of the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group. So you weren't worried about the children's public image. Today they come here with a critique of nature, using the exaggeration of a specific data to make general criticism of acts that have nothing to do with what you said here. They brought nothing, absolutely positive, absolutely nothing, more than some irony, with greater or less correctness, and the resource of Palomares, which is very good, but that defines neuropsychology, Mr. Vázquez. You, like that summer refreshment, came up and liked yourself, like music, which sounds touching, fantastic, right? What happens is that it then collides with our expectations and reality. And the reality to you has overflowed it. If you go out in images. You, who said there was none. Yes, yes, demonstrations bringing small children... – here it is – bringing small children to the banner. I didn't see a single protest, no initiative in this House. [[Interruptions.]] It must be the example between the new policy and the old policy. The old policy that has never been taken out of hair for this, because here they all appear, from Mr. Quintana to Mrs. Adam, with children. It was probably the children's initiative, which they were campaigning, probably. Here we have President Touriño accompanied by distinguished members of this House, former mayor of Santiago or former advisor, in a school dining room. [[Interruptions.]] Surely, I don't know if you're free, Mr. Fajardo. [[Applause]] Here's another example of old politics. A video screen, splendid video, where children from a childhood school hired an artist to entertain them. It was not a political initiative, it was a child's initiative, that hired an artist who came to them to sing, curiously, a very appropriate song: "With money and without money I always do what I want and my word is the law." Here we are, Mr. Mayor of Vigo, but he's not using it, it's the other way around. And then we found the new policy, a gentleman of hat laying here with the rest of the students, at a school in Santiago, this is not used in the new policy. Or other children who, taking advantage of that they were in a happy Christmas, hired a sociocultural animator who curiously was the mayor of the Crown, what we're going to do to him! They're all here, they have a good time and they're having fun, and they're sharing. [[Murmurs.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it's not about setting examples, it's about being exemplary, and you're no good at all. They come here to give a different feeling, to blame a government that scrupulously complies with all and every one of the legal provisions that come collected today and that are vigilant. You remember in this aspect – and finish, Mr. President – Abraham Maslow's saying: when one sets a tool just for a hammer, the problems all look like points. You're the only one who's exposed here, who have problems that aren't capable of speculating and, in the meantime, they're trying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u177	...to tear apart everything around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's over, Mr. Ron, it's over. But the intervention you're going to have here after nothing will discredit anything that the German Government has done or what this spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group has said, because everything is perfectly collected and contemplated by law. And you deeply respect the image of the minors and their rights, which you didn't do, and you had to correct. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u178	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. An unquestioned example of this government's moral decreptitude, and in this case of the People's Party, is what Mr. Farínas has just done. [[Murmurs.]] On the one hand, to put examples of issues that you yourself consider censorable... – imaginable, you brought them out here teaching them, look, look, look... – and then you don't support the initiative. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the initiative we bring affects not only the political positions of this government, but any public and political office, whether it's a party, it's not a party. So, if you agree, they will prevent any concierge or any public office on any party from using the children's image. This is a shame for you and your families. It's a shame, and you know it. The second shows of moral decrepitude is that many of your voters, and many of those who are sitting there, know that this is a shame and they consider it unacceptable, but, they can't take it in public, giving AGE reason. The proof that it's a shame is that you, four days before discussing this initiative, present a protocol to the Galician Council of Convivence. That is indeed a demonstration of moral decrepitude, to cover your backs and not vote in favour of such a reasonable and reasonable initiative as this one. And they present a protocol that more than a protocol is a protocol, because you're trying to hang it every day for citizenship and no longer tails them, Mr. Farínas. I'm a protocol government, and people are tired of their protocols, their photos using children and girls to stay in power. No more tails, it's so obvious! You not only use Parliament as an advertising dish, you even use schools. Because the photo where the councilman appears and Mr. President is not accompanying families in a claim, as you have taught me. No, no, it's a photo inside a classroom... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u180	Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u181	...on school hours. So you don't confuse... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u182	Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u183	And any other photo of any other public office similar to this one will be censored by this deputy, including that one. So you approve the initiative, and neither this or that will happen again. They're actually consistent and, of course, they're not practicing demagogy, but much less on account of the image of children and young children, which is what you do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, I appreciate the support of the other groups. As for the amendment of the Socialist Group, I will assume it, while understanding that it is global and would affect many other areas, but given the lack of political will of the People's Party, there will be no problem in assuming it, taking into account its importance and adequacy. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the rescue of the new Vigo Hospital, its recovery as a strategic hospital for the southern part of Galicia, as well as the creation of a commission composed of all sectors involved to assess its problems and shortcomings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u184	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u185	Mr. Losada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, me too, like the counselor yesterday, I came to talk about a book. In this case it's not mine; it's mine because I bought it in a bookstore but I'm not the author. The fact is that the advantage of intervening in this Parliament on Wednesday after the President of the Union is that, as I say always, it opens up new horizons in scientific knowledge. Today he told us he was very happy because they were going to come out with absolutely dazzling data from the Greek economy at 11.30. Indeed, the National Institute of Statistics drew a press release – I say if they didn't have a sailing opportunity – and I want to advance some of them: we grew up four tenths of GDP less than the Spanish average... Yes, yes, sorry but yes, sorry but yes, 3.8% Spain, 3.4%... I would thank them that before saying it's true, they read the papers, illustrious cathedrals. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Inter-annual rate of variation, national total – no, I am not a professor – 3.8%, Galicia, 3.4%; i.e., it is true. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know what joy is. We follow the sixths by the tail. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, there's 5 behind and 11 ahead. [[Murmurs.]] We're great. As for the average with the Spanish set, we're at 87.7% of GDP, which also... gives me the feeling that the concept of rule of three Mr. Feijóo doesn't have much to do with it. If Spain loses positions in front of the European average and Galicia loses positions in front of the Spanish average, it is quite easy to understand that we have lost positions in Europe. It's a matter of first multiplication...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u187	Let's go with Álvaro Cunqueiro, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u188	...and then split. I have a teaching vocation... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u189	But we're going to Álvaro Cunqueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u190	This has a lot to do with the growth of the economy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u191	Don't... Man, get him on, get him on. Go and call him Alvaro Cunqueriro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u192	I was gonna call you, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u193	Then bind it, bind it, bind it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u194	I think your intellectual anxiety is very good, but I decide when I call, if I may be.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u195	Well, if that's all right, but turn it on, turn it on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u196	The growth of the economy allows the tax collection that allows quality public services, to see if they understand it! Let's see if they understand! [[Applause]] If you don't understand it or you don't want to understand it, it's your problem. But I insist, see if you understand! And now I'm going a little bit to the book, which is not mine, it's Owen Jones, an English polytologist, who talks about the British National Health System. I will read brief notes: "The bureaucracy and the costs of the Administration of the National Health System" – of the British National Health System – "doubled" – is talking about the PSI – "through the PFI system, an accounting scam designed by the Conservative Government of John Mayor. The PFI was much more expensive because private companies have to pay higher interest rates for state credits. As has been the custom in modern Britain, it has touched the contributor to run with risk." By the way, and here I'm going to say the figures of England, that when we talk about the opposition of Vigo Hospital and say that 350 million euros has passed to 1,400 million euros, the illustrious cathedrals of the People's Party are causing perplexity. In the case of the PFI applied to the British National Health System, spending of £54.700 million ended up at £310,000 million. So I challenge the illustrious professors to dismiss it or to give alternative figures. Therefore, as I speak of economics, of the PFI and of public services, Mr President, and after Mr Feijóo's illustrative intervention, I will indeed speak of the private hospital in Vigo. And I'm saying private because I'm going to talk about Vigo's commercial registrar report. That I know neither the universities nor the school facilities nor the rest of the Greek hospitals nor the health centers nor this Parliament are in the Galician Mercantile Register, in none of them. Maybe I do. I am very used to listening to the spokesperson for the People's Party – I and some other fellow in this Parliament – repeat the public hospital. I say it in case they want to look for him and they don't trust my word. He's got CIF. Well, first called the Concessionary Society New Hospital de Vigo, S.A. S.A. means anonymous society, means a company for shares in which capital contributors receive a benefit corresponding to the initial investment. I think it's in Mercantile Right, chapter I, it's a simple thing; it doesn't even need a rule of three. The CIF – as a public data I think I can say here – is A-27752120. The sharing of the capital of this anonymous company by shares... in a large list of companies I want to read the most relevant ones. One of them – the president ate this summer with Mr Feijóo on the north coast of the province of Coruña – is Acciona Concessiones; Ernest & Young; Altair, Engineering and Applications; Dalkia, Energy and Services; Bridges and Shoes. I insist, shareholders. Products, trademarks and commercial names. Office of Industrial Property of the Spanish Patent and Trademark Office. I insist, that I know, no public facility has. He also has a reference N-302838. And we keep going. President of the Board of Directors – which I know, the rest of the hospitals don't have it either, but perhaps I'm wrong – and of course all appointments and leaves corresponding to the executive positions of that Board of Directors. Well, because this is actually about what we're talking about, a private hospital. The Socialist Party therefore supports the rescue of that concession. And he supports the rescue because he believes that there have been absolutely relevant legislative frameworks against the public interest of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The first, Law 30/2007 of 30 October 2007 was breached of public sector contracts, because, undoubtedly, in the previous assessment document there is no justification at that time for the system being through public or private financing. There was an agreement by the Board of Governors, presided over by Emilio Pérez Touriño, who said that the public investment society, public investment, had the capacity to rely. That by the way, that's exactly what the private investment company has done. Yes, the benefits of Mr. Florentino Pérez, Bridges and Footwear, Altair, Ernst & Young and Dalkia Energy. If anyone can rebuff this, I'd also appreciate it if he rebuffed me. This formula has a much higher cost than public funding, it's a fact contrasted empirically. It is therefore clear that public spending programming meets the criteria of economic efficiency. That's in the law, and, therefore, it's failing. In addition, it is contrary to Law 2/2010 itself of budgetary discipline in Galicia. Because, I repeat, between two alternatives, the most expensive is accepted. And it is not true, first, that there was no financial capacity to do so by the public system, but that, even above all, the circumstances – which were not known in 2010 – of the capital market, the types of interest and the level of indebtedness of this autonomous community perfectly allowed for greater indebtedness. And if not, let them ask the autonomous communities who are most indebted. It was also breached in the Galician Health Act 8/2008, which gave citizenship the right to participate in this mechanism, which did not exist, which we know. Maybe there was a private meeting. Of course, there is no assumption of risks – however captive – on the part of the concessionaire. In Vigo we already had the captive demand to Mr. Silveira, who was a private company and we all knew it, Povervisa, and now we have two companies with a captive demand: the concessionary society of Vigo and Povervisa Hospital. So, I insist, it's non-compliance. Next non-compliance, the initial concessionaire no longer exists as such, because among them there were companies that depended on savings banks that disappeared and that are currently owned by those funds of an American risk fund, which is Hill International, that is to say, that neither does that initial condition be met. And on the other hand, it's also said that in the IFP it has to be the concessionary company that takes on costs and funding. He was practically stopped year and half that hospital, because the concessionary company was unable to get that funding. And we had to watch the fact, absolutely disgusting, that while the Government of Greece was absolutely armless in the face of the difficulties of financing the productive fabric of this country, it was able to swallow a credit of 180 million euros to the European Investment Bank so that that company could do business with the health of the vigues and the vigues. So, there's a systematic failure in the procedure and there's a systematic failure in the resolution, because the hospital, although my companion Carmen Acuña says it is, of course, private, smaller, as much as bothering them, as far as it coincides with the PP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u198	...but it's private and small, 843 beds in a 1,453 bed project, and I don't think it's good that the rooms are double, and that they have two beds, because in the country hospitals there are also beds in the corridors, but they're campaign hospitals, they're nothing else. The workers, everyone, who's smaller, who's not the project they've supported and discussed, and who deny you the evidence, deny the evidence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u200	It's over, Mr. President. And so that's why we're asking for this ransom, of course at the lowest cost for the public archives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And we are not only the socialists and the whole of the left, among others, nearly half of the professionals at Vigo hospital, nearly half of the professionals at Vigo hospital, Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, who say that the project is a failed project, which only serves to enrich...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u201	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u202	...to some companies. I, even risking your withdrawal, call it ballast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u203	Thank you. Well, I'd like you to take it off. Take it away? Thank you. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Agreement between the President and the Member. Nothing to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u204	We'll have to hire a censor soon enough. Thank you, President. September 3, 200,000 people on Vigo Street, putting it precisely towards dignity, that of those who do not care what is happening at Vigo Hospital: the dignity of the sick people, the dignity of the professionals and professionals and all the Greeks and Greeks we pay, at the expense of the lack of investment in other areas of health, a private capricious hospital of Mr. Feijóo, a expensive whim, a PFI, the jewel of the crown of the Government Feijóo, which is a failure. A mobilization culminating in protests for many years against the indecency of a government that not only privatized a hospital that was obviously necessary, but also impoverished attention by forcing professionals to work under harsh conditions. A mobilization that has succeeded in giving Mrs Mosquera's bears on the street and, however, since then cosmetic changes. They haven't done anything since the new advisor's entry, they haven't cared about complaints from services like in the ICU, in emergencies; victims of an unplanned failed transfer and lack of sufficient means; from psychiatry, where there aren't enough professionals to provide adequate care; from the midwives, each matron must attend two deliveries; there are insufficient personnel; from the captors and captors, who were at their own time privatized to return their assignments after a fight nothing easy; from the laboratories and the pharmacy itself. We said, and so I told the manager in our visit to the center, that if you're delaying chemotherapy treatments, that's a very serious thing. It gives them absolutely everything, even the situation of the samples, as were the samples of pathological anatomy in a dark room on a bass, or that will happen, for example, to the genetic material archive that was located in the general hospital. They don't care much about research and intelligence; they won't know whether to get rid of them or they're at risk of losing the genetic samples, which are necessary for scientific studies. They pass over everything as they have passed over the laws and regulations as to adjudication and construction. Nothing seemed to serve as a warning from the beginning of the prejudices that a private hospital was going to have, with a private agency, too, as explained here, with a complete private directive and that it would involve a debt that would compromise health budgets for years; we warn you before being here and we have warned you since we entered this Parliament. The Council of Auditors, as it moved in the last debate of the past plenary session, warned that it was compromising the sustainability of public health. But what's more! the People's Party went forward, which gives more if they fail or fail to meet the deadlines of execution, nothing happens. We warn you in your own time, you gave them absolutely the same. Whether the dealer modifies or cuts 32% of the beds from 1,239 to 845, what does it matter, we keep going? That in the end the hospital doesn't have a central lab, don't you mind, what does it matter? That 25% of UCI beds are cut off, both of them! And that with the reordinating of the Nicolás Peña and the Mexeiro – so that according to the People's Party is so well and has no glasses – we remain with 29% less beds in the areas, because so does Povervisa do business, of course, at the expense of her workers, who today again denounce the conditions they have to work on. And what do you care that it had to be the Galician board that went to solve the funding gap? All of this gives them absolutely the same, and we have denounced this Parliament, on many occasions, the non-compliances; we have, therefore, long been relating the current situation to financial defaults, the general results of the centre itself and the design of the IFP. And, therefore, by agreeing with this PSdeG initiative today, what we are asking for is the amendment we tabled, because precisely how this ransom is going to be done, that is what we have already put in the previous plenary, and we understand that there will be no problem in voting in favour, because so it was voted in favour of the previous plenary for the rest of the opposition groups. An amendment that implements the method of hospital recovery and that allows to negotiate with concessionary society to acquire both the value invested by it, the social capital, the credit provided and even the market interest, as explained by Comrade Xoese Manuel Beiras in the previous intervention in the past plenary session. But what we have defended for years since this parliamentary group is that ransom. We therefore allow us to return to the public something that should never have gone out of the audience, and if there were 200,000 people in the street on 3 September, asking for it, putting it towards that dignity, it seems now that on 12 May they will put that dignity back on top of what will be, at last, a public hospital for Vigo, because we will recover it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u206	Thank you, President. Rescue a hospital is what this LNP demands that the Joint Group will support with its vote, rescue the Álvaro Cunquer Hospital from the dealership's pursuit of profit, but also from a supposedly fraudulent political management. The procedure for granting the private undertaking is denounced by the Galician Public Health Defence Association and admitted to the procedure by the European authorities. A disincentive since Mr Feijóo, convinced and expert privatising, took over the presidency of the Galician Union. Imitating Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre's script – this leadership so valued in the People's Party – in Madrid, Mr. Feijóo takes the first step, the construction of the hospital under the model of mixed management, and does it without competition and without consensus, the finger, as would commonly be said. This step assumed the increase of the initial budget, first consequence, more or less in the triple of what the two-party government had assumed. And the result made rivers of ink run and filled the streets of Vigo's city one of the biggest manifests that have been contemplated in democracy. They're very colloquial abbreviations. Inaugurated after a long process of irregularities and in the middle of the electoral period, the deficiencies encountered were of such magnitude that they caused the cessation of the previous advisor. Private management in building, whose purpose is to increase the benefit for the company rather than the health and safety of users and professionals of quality public health, has been translated into reduced services, the size of the building, the quality of the materials used and equipment, in quality and quantity. Specifically there were deficiencies in access, equipment, rodent presence, roof falls, hasty transfer of patients with consequences for all known, paper walls that prevent the installation of equipment, faecal water spills, floods, absence of toilets in surgeries, drips, decrease of emergency space. It seems exaggerated, heard like this, and I'm reading it, and it seems to me to be over-exaggerated, but it's a sad, amazing reality. The second step of the Aguirre model is the outsourcing of certain services: cleaning, maintenance, laundry, catering, diet, etc. Following the script, the result in Álvaro Cunqueiro is: insufficient food and poor quality, patients don't have a mineral water principle, garbage bags and clothes used piled up, discos, spoils that don't get arranged... Third step, in the neoliberal strategy of Aguirre and his disciple Feijóo, would be the total privatization of the public health system. Aguirre didn't get it, let's hope Mr. Feijóo doesn't get it here in Galicia either. This LNP seeks to repair the legality and initiate the rescue procedure of this hospital for public management and prevent the Greek citizenship from remaining pending, being mortgaged for the future in health care with an impressive debt. It is EUR 80 million that has provided the concessionary company, which must be returned without compensation or pay for loss of profits, assuming the company in the rescue process the repair that needs the center, derived from the company's savings and the pursuit of profit, and which even endangers the health and safety of users and professionals of public health. Also recover the cuts introduced in the contract between Sergas and the concessionaire for costing, beds, operating, research and teaching modules, etc., and also recover the risk of financing which, by contract, was carried out by the concessionaire, but through a bureaucratic cambalach was largely covered by the Galician Union, in that mad pursuit of the Government Party to protect the private sector. Of course, Mr. Abel Losada, the Joint Group will support the initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u207	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u208	Good morning. In fact, we speak again today in this Parliament of the new Vigo hospital. It is clear that a subject such as this often comes to this Parliament is showing the importance that this has and is therefore shown by the enormous concern that the construction of this hospital and the put into operation and the multiple deficiencies and the system employed because they generally cause between the population, between professionals and others, are they not? And indeed – Mr. Losada said, but we have already said it more often – it is obvious that the decision to build the new Vigo hospital by the PFI model is more than contrasting that it is more expensive, which is more expensive to public buildings, which is a model to benefit companies, which costs much more than public management. There are more than enough studies, tested, of places where they've already done it, and where the evidence is in sight, right? The results of this model are also tested for the health of people, for the quality of health they lend themselves, which translates into suffering and death. And there are already studies that this model in the United Kingdom has meaning for health quality. There are already enough studies that demonstrate the increase in mortality in the population as a result of delivering public health niches to private companies, studies that anyone can access, are from published in writing or through social networks, made by specialists of different kinds, from economists to sociologists and studies on the subject. I mean, I don't think the People's Party here will dare to deny that cause-effect relationship between privatization, a worse quality of care and the consequences on the morbidity and mortality of the population. It's more than proven. And it's more than proven that Vigo's hospital is a private hospital. I, in the previous plenary, when we approached this issue, I said it, but, let's go, it was nothing new, it was all known, it's a private hospital, because it's on the balance of the UTE's accounting that made the hospital. It's just that simple, it's not like a good of the German Government, of the Greeks and of the Greeks, it's computed because it's in the balance of the concessionary business. That's how it's a private hospital Sergas has rented the facilities to provide health care there. That's the mechanism. You've been to a model that means building a hospital by a private company, and it gives up until those 20 years of canon, and what Sergas does is rent that facility in exchange for some of the modems nearly 70 million euros a year. Round business, round business for the company, that company that was broken, that UTE that was broken, that the Greek Government, that doesn't seek funding for itself, because it turns out you couldn't, find it for the company. All this disproposing relationship, which led Vigo's health area not to be better treated, to have no better resources, to have no more beds, to have no hospital to meet the health needs of an entire area, to have a hospital that has no central laboratory, which does not currently have a sterilization to allow it to work as it had to be, to be suspended surgically, despite the fact that yesterday the councillor announced here that it would be the best sterilization center in Europe. Well, we'll see, for now it's chaos, for now it's chaos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So at the BNG we said the same thing again: it was a political decision to go to this model, it was a political decision to build a public hospital by paying far more public buildings. And what we have to do is make the political decision to reverse that decision and go against it, to rescue that hospital for public service, to rescue that hospital so that it is management, control and decisions from the public, because right now – you can deny it, but the evidence is there, the professionals are there every day – who is in charge of the hospital, in the fundamental decisions, is the concessionaire, it is the executive staff who is there; it is the ones who make the bold decisions, indeed, are the ones who make the bold decisions. Which, political decision to privatize him, political decision to rescue him. So we, in the previous plenary session, said that we are worth any itinerary that leads to the final goal, a final goal that Vigo's hospital is public, and that, after making it public, if you install all the resources and services it does not have, so that it's the reference hospital that Vigo's health area needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u210	...that at this moment, of course, Vigo's health area is the most abused in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u212	Thank you, President. Good morning to all. Mr. Losada, I'm not a professor, it's true, but I know what an SA is and I know what the PSOE is: lies, unemployment and crisis. [[Applause]] And I say this for the next time. I'm not a professor and neither did you, but you couldn't read the statistics that the National Institute of Statistics today drew from the growth of GDP in 2015, broken down by autonomous communities. Here you will see, Mr. Losada, that Galicia has grown exactly the same as Spain, 3.2, in terms of volume, Mr. Losada, 3.2. If you let me intervene, you had ten minutes and I have five. [[Explained words not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u213	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u214	Well, it grew up exactly the same as Spain, which has been 1.4 more than the European Union average. Do you know what they said, Mr. Losada, when the 2015 budget project was being discussed in this House? That the predictions of the Galician Union were overstated; it predicted 2.8% growth and we grew by 3.2%. You said, "How is it possible that Galicia can grow twice as much as Germany, don't you believe it? [[Applause]] Well, we exceeded the forecast we had by 2015. Well, coming into the question of Álvaro Cunqueiro, I'd like to read a tweet, a tweet that says: – Thank you. – "When they treat you in a public hospital, you feel proud of your country. Already high, thanks to wonderful health professionals." It is the patient Churches, patient Pablo Iglesias, who only a few days ago had a colic – we wish him a quick recovery – and attended the hospital of Arganda do Rey, a town south of the capital, Madrid, which was built under the same public-private funding and collaboration system, with a difference: that the concession of this hospital is thirty years, and that of Álvaro Cunqueiro is twenty. [[Explained words not perceived]] [[Murmurs.]] How do you say this hospital is Mr. Churches? A public hospital, as is indeed the King's Arganda hospital, and as of course it is the Cunquerio Álvaro. [[Applause]] Well, for fear that part of this House, specifically the socialists, will not be represented in Mr Iglesias, I will speak to you about a socialist referent, in this case Mr Antioch, who was President of the Balearic Islands. This president, Mr. Antioch, when he arrived at the Government of Balearics, what he did was to stop the works of Son Spases Hospital. But at two months, what he did was to resume them with a public-private financing system, exactly the same as the Cunqueiro Alvaro, making a change and expanding the concession of that hospital. [[Murmurs.]] So does the Socialist Party in other autonomous communities. [[Murmurs.]] Since this debate is already repetitive, and we have been talking about this debate many times in this plenary, I would like to tell you that while this House's opposition has been doing exactly the same initiative for four years, the Alvaro Cunqueiro hospital, the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and Chuvi are evolving. The news is obvious. An accelerator room is being installed in the Mexier. "The Chuvi is equipped with a diagnostic team of breast pathologies that represents a great qualitative and quantitative advance." "The Pneumology Laboratory of the Cunker sums up two more machines that avoid deviations." "The Chuvi conducts a pioneer study around the world to see the benefits of pre-habilitation in pancreatic cancer operations." "The Sergas signs an agreement with the Salceda Town Hall of Caselas to build a new health center." [[Murmurs.]] I mean, minds you're still anchored in the same theory, the Sergas and the public health of Galicia continues to evolve and specifically in the health area of Vigo. A few days ago, we saw this picture, this picture in which four public charges appear -- this lady I don't know who she is -- four public charges. The one on the right probably doesn't recognize him anymore, but he was undersecretary general until a few days ago. Three of the four have several questions in common. The first one, which is charged with corruption, and the second is that they have not stopped putting obstacles in the way for this which they have behind them, which is the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, to be built. They never put anything on their side for this hospital to be a reality, but today it's a reality, today it's a reality despite the many obstacles they put on the road. While you keep asking for the same thing as four years ago and keep trying to get rid of this big hospital, at this hospital, 5,250 surgical operations have already been done, 8,000 hospitalizations, 233,000 consultations and 85,000 emergency care, Mr. Losada. It's time for them to change their attitude. I finish, and finish with a comment, a comment on the social networks of a Lady of the Guard, who says the following: "There are few things I'm focusing on. She touched me with a family I've entered and spent more than three months in the Helmet, with wonderful professionals I'll always be grateful to. I've been in Germany for many years, and quite a few times entered, and the Germans already wanted to have a hospital like Álvaro Cunqueiro. We don't appreciate what we have. I don't think they have any doubts, like everything else. In correcting the errors I agree, but getting things out of here I don't share them. We don't destroy, we better build for the good of all." [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please, Mr. Losada, build. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u215	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Losada. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, quiet, please. Quiet, please, so you can finish Mr. Losada. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u216	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u217	No, wait, wait, not yet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u218	Mr. Dorado, look, you have to improve your internship. I certainly don't speak in terms of volume, I speak in terms of the web page of the National Institute of Statistics, today: "PIB at market prices. Current prices. EUR thousands: Galicia 3.4; national total, 3.8." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, that's fine, that's also what I know; then you have some adjustment problem. Well, well, well. Of course, I know that the Spanish judicial system has some problem, I really appreciate Mr. Puy's class, as always!, but I would like you to let me talk, because it's not in the debate, Madam President, that I know!, that I know it's not in the debate! [[Laughter]] And if you are, I'd like you to tell me; if you are in the debate, I'd like you to tell me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u219	You know he's not. Go on. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u220	Then it would be nice if you had told him. Look, I know that the Spanish judicial system has some ponds, it's a pity that Mr. Antioch is the one who sets in motion the PFI system at Son Spases Hospital and who's declaring that he hunts OHL is Mr. Matas for that same hospital. That's all right! [[Applause]] Look, do you know what we're talking about, Mr. Dorado? We're talking about two fundamental vectors. The first one, and I'm not going to say ballast, I'm going to say ideology and business, business of the company that has the CIF A27752120. And, of course, with all my respect to the patients who are there, who may feel magnificently treated, I never spoke to Sergas professionals at any time, eh! I mean, don't try to mix me intentionally what I didn't say. I didn't talk about Sergas professionals. Moreover, they attend an unheard of fact: as Sergas' professionals, they demanded improvements for their work center without talking about their wages, and the advisor, in an act of political misery, not to mention anything else, said that they were actually complaining because they wanted better offices. Don't you remember? Wasn't she at that moment when the counsellor said it here? I was, I was, I was here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So with all my respect to patients, business benefits have a CIF, and it's not Galicia, it's Actosa, it likes them or not, it likes them or not. And come here and tell us the stories you want. And, by the way, I told him: ideology and business. And do you know what the other factor is? The other factor is an unprecedented advertising campaign to show Feijóo as a good manager. A brutal adjustment of the deficit, which, indeed, ended up breaking up with essential public services in this country, as much as you try to disguise it and here sell us thousands and thousands of squares in all kinds of public services, and of course, what happens, without any doubt, is that Galicia would be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u221	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u222	...to rescue that hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u223	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u224	Because when the headlines say and when the Ministry of Economy says: "The government will finance another €1.7 billion this year the zero interest for Galicia" – because the management of Feijóo, by the way, was very good – why are they going to use them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u225	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u226	I don't know why they're going to use them, but I'm sure not to limit the profits of that company with Mr. Dorado's NIF. Say that here. Say that here. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u227	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u228	No, no, I don't need to see pictures. They say this here, they say they don't care about the benefits of Actora and what they really care about is the health of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u229	Mr. Losada, the amendment? Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u230	I appreciate the understanding of the presidency, Madam President. Yes, no, we're not going to accept the amendment of the Alternative Left-Galga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u231	Okay. Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. So we moved on to the next non-legislation proposal, from the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the call by the Government of Greece for a public job offer covering the total number of vacancies since 2009 in public health. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members, on the call by the Government of Greece for a public job offer covering all vacancies since 2009 in public health, as well as the agreement with the unions of an order to link Sergas contracts to their motivation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u232	This initiative was amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u233	For the defense of the initiative, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u234	Thank you, President. Today we bring an initiative of justice, first, with the professionals and the professionals of public health, and, secondly, with the Greeks and the Greeks that we went to that public health, in times when it was necessary and planned to increase places in some services – because it had been studied that it was necessary, especially in primary care but also in other services –. The creation of new squares was viable, but the People's Party decided not only to brake it, but to initiate an aggressive reduction in the health, health and health work, which today has led to the current precariousness. They were made in the name of the sacrosanct support of the deficit, a support that was not real, because today we know that these cuts in the name of the crisis have not only survived or not only been created on the basis of the impoverishment of the Greek population but also under that supposed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u235	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u236	...no funding – they said there was no money and they kept saying until there was nothing. They justified a cut from around 7% of health budgets and 2,600 million euros across the board. But while that was happening, Mr. Feijó owed us until we reached the current debt, which exceeds 10 billion euros. That is, gross social cuts that, instead of reducing debt and improving the economy of the real country, they increased, and they also increased interest, which we paid to banks, the multimillionaire payment flows we have up to 2040 because of public-private partnerships like the one we just discussed right now in relation to the new hospital in Vigo. Therefore, the cuts have only served to deepen the benefits of the usual ones, and the cuts in the number of health professionals are to us it seems – and therefore a theft – a decapitalization that has only served to worsen the public health and the situation of thousands of professionals who today have to assume, in addition to all this, the increase in the workloads that it entails because that elimination of thousands of health and health markets. Since 2010 – as your lordships know and we have debated here until satiety – applied to the influence of these tops of spending that 10% replenishment rate, which has therefore limited the number of professionals, not only in health care – in education and we could talk about many other public services. That is, that – as we have explained – of 100% of the vacant squares 90% were destroyed. That same replenishment rate that rose to 50% in 2015 but in no case supplanting one hundred percent of the squares as they were claimed. Two problems get out of here. One first, that during these years they haven't even called...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u237	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u238	...that descent of the squares, and I in particular, as far as my category is concerned, I had to wait six years to be able to resubmit myself to a public job offer, and other categories didn't even -- between quotes -- that "sort" -- because it's no luck -- to be able to introduce themselves. And secondly, the announcement of the recovery of the possibility of that replacement rate does not match or obviously did not suppose to fill out all the squares that have been eliminated all these years. What we cannot understand is how, if the People's Party maintains that there is economic recovery, it does not exist to recover precisely the totality of these squares. What happens – as I have just explained – is that not only have squares been amortized, but those who are left vacant did not go on public job offer – six years I waited for, other categories not even that. And, therefore, all these squares are happening is that they are covered by precarious work, contracts that should be covered by long-term contracts, and with stability and with squares that were subject to public supply of employment; in 2014 – the latest data we have, as mentioned at the initiative – more than 100,000 contracts per day, to which these accumulations of tasks must be added. As we have already reported here and are tired and tired of reporting it to potential health professionals, there is a perverse use of what was previously a contract – let's say, between quotes – of "better quality" that were the accumulation of tasks. Right now, for a few years now, these contracts have been signed every 15 days and still above are used to cover loose days of need in different services. In such a way that, despite having a 15-day contract – they were considered six months ago to accumulate them and sign up because I think I remember that every three months – because in spite of that, every day they can assign that professional to a different service. A precariousness that is indecent and that doesn't deserve people who have been working for public health all their lives. I don't know if it's personal experience, but when I finished my career, a decade ago, it was estimated around a decade, twelve years, fourteen years, at the top, that people because of a promotion, if they worked more or less continuously, the public square presenting themselves to those oppositions. Today, not only the people of my promotion, but some older -- some older years -- follow with the same precariousness that we had when we started working, or probably worse, because that abuse of day and hour contracts does it is that the situation is chronicled and there is no way that people can plan their lives. Others and others – contrary to what has been said in a parliamentary committee – never even get access to their first job, end the promotions in my case – also in other categories – or end the training cycles and can never be incorporated because there is not enough work. And that's not just a job problem, it's an obvious problem with the quality of health services. It's impossible to provide the same service when we have about 2,000 professionals less, a little less than 2,000. When we have a download of so many professionals, it's impossible that we can provide the same service, right? And, therefore, what we're asking for here, and what we consider to be fair, is a basic initiative, against what it might look like. We are not asking for new services, new squares, better services, which we could understand as such, right? because we believe that in primary care, for example, we would have to create many squares and that in fact they were planned. What we're asking is that all vacancies that have been left since 2009 be filled and a link order is established that forces Sergas to contract for the causes that motivate that recruitment. You can't be using contracts to further jeopardise workers and health workers, using a contract to cover absolutely everything and sending them because every day to a different service or even to different services: go up here, go down to another plant, go to another service... a completely rocambolesque situation that we understand violates all kinds of labour rights. Of course – and I'm going to finish now –, 816 squares that have been drawn, because it's an election year and it played – of course, there are autonomous elections and it's what it's about – do not complete all the destruction carried out over these years. Nothing's going to return to public health all the professionals have contributed to taking on this whole workload these years, but at least what must be done is to correct this situation. We understand that today the People's Party, for the sake of this economic recovery, should support this initiative that we are presenting today. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u240	Well, today we're talking again about the need for Galician public health to have sufficient staff. BNG will support this initiative, Mrs Solla, but – I regret – I fear that the People's Party will do the same as it did in the previous 5th Commission, where the BNG brought this request and voted against. They don't think it's necessary, because elsewhere they're worse; so why are we going to be okay? We're going to match down, please! Or it's the same risk because yesterday's BNG initiative, which also voted against Sergas having the personnel needed to provide the service. Just like they fell out of bed today or hit a blow and it turns out they're reacting and doing the right thing and they're supporting the Welsh Health Service because they have the right staff, right? Because look, one of the important issues of the health system is staff. Without a trained staff, in sufficient quantity and with decent working conditions, there is no possible health, there is no possible quality health. To have quality public services, qualified and sufficient staff are needed. And the Government of the People's Party, supported by the majority group of this House, the People's Party, because systematically what they did was reduce that huge human capital. What they're doing is decapitalizing public health from human resources. We can go to the data, and we can see that as the public is decapitalized, private is capitalized. We can go back to the debate on the previous point, can't we? It's such a simple thing. Look, between 2010 and 2014 more than 3,000 people were retired, 3,000 professionals in Sergas. If we count the squares that have been offering since this second age of staff, we have in 2012 been 176 optional squares; between 13 and 14, 205 nursing and 82 optional; 14-15, 104 for the rest of collectives and 314; and this year, 818; they give 1,700. I mean, with this 814-seat call, which, of course, seems like every time they announce it, it's 800 more and they multiply the pancakes and the fish, it turns out that with this call, it's not even nearly half of those that have been lost. With which, of course, we're talking about an ERE in Sergas of more than 1,500 people, when it's over and when these 800 and some squares are effective, because at the pace they go!; they're summoned, we don't know when they're going to solve them, when they're going to take possession, because here everything can wait, right? Because they're playing the reposition rate trap. They say they already call all the squares; all the squares of 2015 but not all those that were lost in previous years, of course, not all the 1,500 that were lost in previous years. Which we're on a negative balance. We are going to support this initiative and we are presenting to you an amendment of two killings. One is that where the initiative calls for a public job offer that covers 100 per cent of the vacant squares since 2009, what we ask from the BNG is that it be in all categories, because with that collection that they put in the Budgets Accompanying Act that they can accumulate squares in the categories they consider appropriate, it turns out that what they are doing is to convene squares but in many of them they are not calling them. With which we believe that all these squares are necessary: these maintenance squares and all those services that have been for years, since 2009, without convening any square. So we hope that it will be accepted from all categories. And then a new point where we're asking is that all the structural squares occupied by potential staff be called. Because the squares I'm referring to are the considered structural ones, but there are many other vacancies – which also exist, but which are not considered structural – that are there in a kind of limbo. It's about places where staff are hired in precarious ways, and at BNG we consider that we also have to compute, that all the squares should be counted, that all these squares should go out. It's more than discussed, a conditioned health needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u242	...sufficient staff in condition; you need to eliminate that precarious recruitment, where most of Sergas contracts are contracts for days at the moment. We're in this situation that, for example, in consultations on Saturday to Sunday doesn't need to be personal, and they'll be at this rate they hire from Monday to Friday...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u244	...to avoid hiring at the weekend, to hire at the most attended hours. Well, a precaution according to his job reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez García, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u246	Thank you, President. We said yesterday that we had a couple of full-time talks about health, which shows that it is something that concerns the Greeks and the Greeks and something that is not working well, because, if it were working well, it would not be an insistent issue in this Parliament. I would ask the People's Party, instead of being defensive, to reflect on the needs that are being claimed, because we are no longer moving what is being given in society; a problem and concern about the citizenship that you do not care about. For example, the 2015 report of the Association of the Patient Defender, of the State, says that emergency collapse is a constant throughout the state for lack of personnel, but that the worst situation occurs, by this order, in the Canary Islands, followed by Galicia, Andalusia and Catalonia. So we're the seconds that have the worst emergency services, the most collapsed and the lack of staff. On the list of hospitals most reported by neglect, the first that appears from Galicia is the CHUAC, which appears in seventh place. But the point is that the Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo appears in the ninth place, when it only took a few months, less than six months of life, and it already appears in the ninth place as the state's most denounced hospital, which should make the People's Party reflect. As for medical neglect, of the 14,430 presented in the State to the patient's defender, in Galicia, 797 were presented, which is a very high proportion in relation to Galician population with reference to the state. So proportionally, we have a very high number of complaints about negligence. It should also be noted that the negligence committed in Povervisa with Sergas patients is attributed to the CHUVI, so these complaints from Povervisa are also included. And speaking of Povervisa, I want to tell the People's Party that they do not take the same measure, because they copy many things from Povervisa. Povervisa has just opened a file to the entire company committee for reporting that work insecurity is affecting the quality of care. That's the way you guys, and this hospital that you've agreed to, solve things. If someone denounces the precariousness and lack of quality, the loss of quality in the provision of services, it is immediately threatened with a file to the entire committee, something so I think that the Board and Sergas, who signed that concert, should take letters in the matter, because defending the interests of patients and defending the interests of workers is not a crime, and much less when it's just a statement to the press. Unheard of. But we could also talk about waiting lists, which, even though this report from the State Patient's Valator reports says that there is a reduction in waiting lists in Galicia, says that this reduction is also due to certain irregularities, such as opacity in updating data, and therefore, an acceleration of figures, reactivation of concerts with private health for much of the year, management guided by privatization and controversial shock plans. Therefore, the defender of the State's patient himself doubts that the reduction of waiting lists in Galicia is real. And besides, the valet itself says there's opacity to accialize the numbers. We can also talk about the number of cuts that have occurred in health care and how this has influenced the high precariousness. We've already talked about hiring for days, yesterday I was talking about the distress of staff and stressful shifts, and that affects the quality of care. You don't have to be a doctor at all, you don't have to be licensed at all, you have to know that if a nurse attends 10 patients she's more stressed, and you can take them worse, that you have to attend to 5. It's logical, it's so logical. Since it's not the same service a person performs that rests one day a week as the service that provides a person rests two days a week. It is not the same as the provision of a person who has a stable rotation, that of a person who has an unstable rotation, and today is tomorrow, tomorrow night, and last afternoon. I don't know if you know what it's like to work shifts. I've worked for a lot of years and it's a total shock and it's inflated. So all this precaution, this call people at eight in the morning, comes right now to the hospital and tomorrow you're at night, and last you're late, and you have no rest, that had to be forbidden. That's overexploitation at work, that's recruitment fraud, and those are realities that are being given in Welsh health. So we are going to support this initiative, and I hope that the People's Party will reflect on these issues because there is no debate on this. Less personal, more precarious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u247	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u248	...bad quality of care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u250	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the previous plenary session, in this House we discussed an initiative by the Socialist Group that intended, in its resolution, that the Council of Galicia had ceased to bring appeals to the judgments that gave reason to employees and public employees, in accordance with the return of the extra payment of the year 2013. As you know, this initiative was not finally approved by the votes against the People's Party, which is our surprise when, a few hours later, the Consecutor of Fairy announced the bomb and I will pay back 50% of the outstanding payment of the year 2012. An exercise, ladies and gentlemen, of endless political cynicism and hypocrisy. The same exercise you're doing with Sergas' public job offer. If we want to know exactly how many squares will be covered and how many will be vacant it is as simple as to pose a math problem that I think is from primary notebook. If, according to data published in Sergas' human resources management plans, the number of vacancies generated between 2011 and 2015 was 3,527 squarees, and the public job offer establishes the 818 squarees call, how many squares are left unmet? 2,709 squares. That is to say, the public job supply will only cover 23.2% of the vacancies; a figure that, of course, from the Socialist Group we considered to be absolutely insufficient to meet the needs of the system and the quality in care for the patients, something we have already warned that would occur in the budget law, which talked about a 100-percent replenishment rate, but actually the small letter announced to us that the replacement rate was only for the amortized squares during 2015, nothing related to the year 2010 until 2014. And what will happen to 76.8% of the remaining squares? Either they will be amortized or they will be covered by precarious contracts or they will have private health services to supply these staff shortages that Mr. Feijóo's own government has been creating for these years. This is the perfect tool that the People's Party uses to continue to pave the way for the privatization of our public health. Without workers it is not possible to maintain the care activity, so the bed and surgery will continue to be closed, increasing the waiting lists. Because yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, any person who had ever applied for a diagnostic appointment knows how long to wait, even if you try to make it constantly. And other services, which will cause you to maintain your assistance statistics, they will perform these services with private health. Yesterday Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo mentioned the report of the Federation of Public Health Associations, but she made a biased reading of it. The same is true of autonomous communities with a high degree of privatization: Madrid, Catalonia, Balearic Islands and Galicia. The ones that have a low degree of privatization are Andalusia, Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha and Extremadura. Interestingly, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo, Members of the People's Party, three of the four communities with a high degree of privatization have been governed for more years by the People's Party, and also curiously, three of the four autonomous communities with a lower degree of privatization have been ruled for more years by the Socialist Government. We socialists have always wagered, since the 1980s, from the General Health Act, for a quality public health for all. That law that had among its promoters a badge fellow, a socialist badge, which was Mr. Ernest LLuch, murdered more than fifteen years ago, than we feel tremendously proud. Since then, we have continued to struggle and fight for public health of quality and also for labour stability and the quality of employment of workers and public workers, those who form the backbone of our justice, equality and well-being system. That is why we are going to support this initiative today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u252	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is, whenever we hear in this Parliament speaking to a member of the PSdG-PSOE, we always have the feeling of being facing a political casting towards that congress in search of a vacancy secretary general. I have the feeling, after listening to Mrs. Blanco, that she also has an impact on that casting and also wants to participate. We, in fact, what we have to ask for is tranquility, because, Mrs. Blanco, I have to remind you that the 10% replenishment rate for the health that established it was a socialist government; who later turned it into 50% was a People's Party government, and that today is 100 percent thanks to a People's Party government, Mrs. Blanco. So what you say is it's political cynicism or a very active participation in that political casting of the PSdeG-PSOE! [[Applause]] I repeat the data I told you yesterday by my colleague from the People's Parliamentary Group. That you had a level of concert 13 points higher when you ruled the Bipartite, the Socialist Party-Nationalist Block Galego. Hence lessons from the Socialist Party, zero, Mrs. Blanco. If something becomes clear to us after listening to the interventions of the left-wing groups on this whole, on this motion, is that, of course, there is a shared strategy by all the left-wing groups to destabilize the image of Galicia's public health. You are creating a catastrophic picture of health that has nothing to do with reality. It is true that we have seen a number of years of constant fall from the public collection because of a Government of the Socialist Party, of course! But despite the many budgetary difficulties, Mrs. Blanco, in Galicia, public health and her professionals were able to improve and offer services that were not provided in Galicia in 2009, however much they prayed to them. That's why we felt reasonably proud of our public health, mainly on two issues. First of all, because we can count on the public health professionals at all levels, who pay high-quality attention and who are very well valued by the Greeks, against what Mrs. Representing the Joint Group or the AGE Excision. And secondly, because in times of maximum difficulties we could continue to improve public health as much as it bothers you. With 2,000 million euros less each year we were able to increase the weight of health expenditure, which increased from 36% of the budget in 2009 to 40% in 2015. We felt proud of the Welsh public health and we felt proud of what we have done all this time, because we were the Government that put our Lugo hospital into operation; we were the Government that put into operation the new public hospital in Vigo; we were the Government that executed the reforms and expansions of the hospitals of the Coruña, Ourense and Salnes; we were the Government that put into operation 20 new health centers and we reformed 9 more, and another 14 are found in construction. It was us, not you; therefore we felt proud. And it proves that things are done meridianly well is demonstrated by the health barometer published in June 2015, which says 73.2% of the Greeks believe that the health system is good or quite good. Eleven points above Spain's global rating. So, Mrs. Martínez, you and the opposition groups have to reflect on. That catastrophic vision that you have of health care and health professionals, because they also say it, it doesn't share it with most of the Greeks, and it's expressed in that barometer. We bet on public health and that's why in the June 2016 budgets there are 103 million euros more than in 2015. That's betting on public health, don't come here saying a lot of things and then don't do anything; that was when you were ruling. Speaking of which, you tell us about the public job offer. Look, we have to tell you that in the CEO of March 7, Sergas' Public Employment Offer Decree was published for 2016, with a total of 818 squares. A number corresponding to 100% of the vacancies generated in the previous year, in 2015, in accordance with the rules for calculating the replenishment rate contained in the State basic legislation. Vacancies in the previous year. So what you're asking is that it can't be done, Mrs. White, and you know it. So they come here to lie and try to cheat on citizenship. Those 818 squares are in addition to those offered in the public health system in Galicia in the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and they add up to a total of 1,600 new squares, as much as it bothers you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So the maximum number of squares allowed by the current legislation is called, and that's what you deny. [[Murmurs.]] About the temporary coverage of vacant squares, I have to tell you that Sergas' stable staff rate is around 80%, 80% the stability rate. I'm sorry to bother you, and the percentage of replacement squares is 65%,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u253	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u254	... depending on the service needs. We felt proud of a Sergas in which 36,000 professionals work, who serves 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, and we were proud to support a government that at the worst of the economic crisis reinforced the state of well-being and armored...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u255	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u256	...public health. I'm sorry you're here trying to cheat and get a public job offer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u257	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u258	...that we feel especially proud. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u259	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u260	Thank you, President. To appreciate the support of the opposition groups, we are going to accept the amendment of the BNG, although we understand that in order to take out these additional squares, what would we have to do?, we had to generate these squares, that RPT, and we don't know if it could be in this OPE, but if we had to take them out. And I said that, it was an initiative of minimals, because we understand that it is necessary to generate squares and, at the entrance, we demand that the People's Party take back what it eliminated, if it came up not to overcome that supposed crisis that seemed to be the population. Mr. Tellado, he addressed the world less to the proposed group, and you used the intervention to carry out electoral campaign and opposition to the opposition, as it has already been customary. I would ask you that before saying that we speak ill of the public professionals, you should review previous interventions – because you could answer the same – and if you wash your mouth a little before you talk about who you have to endure for decades precarious contracts of hours, days, and you have no minimum of stability. Do you know what that is? We're not proposing here, we're not just talking about 2015 vacancies, you're trying to confuse. We're talking about all those squares that you've eliminated, it seems to be in the post of a supposed recovery, which I assumed the greatest indebtedness of Galician history; 10,000 million euros of debt that only served to justify cuts in this case in health care. And that's why health professionals continue to maintain with their work a public system that you don't support with their "administration." And I say it in the dining room, because until now if it hadn't been for the work of health professionals, there wouldn't be anything on the side of the Galician board today. Of course, the system still has quality, but it's not what you do, it's for health care and health care. And obviously that quality has been lost and is lost when there are fewer professionals to work and to provide those services, because they have to assume larger workloads and because, in addition, it involves the depreciation of services. Please, a little bit about all those people, not only the workers and the workers, but the patients who suffer from these waiting lists that you contribute to your policy of public policy and cutting. Keep on, keep on voting in favor, don't worry, others will come to create that RPT and those squares that you've eliminated. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u261	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u262	We move on to the votes of non-legislative proposals. We begin with the first non-law proposal, which is from the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to increase the number of refugees in Galicia and the presentation in the Galician Parliament of a reception plan. I think there's a transaction to which it was read yesterday, so we voted on this not-law proposal. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Consuelo Martínez García, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to increase the number of refugees in Galicia and the presentation in the Galician Parliament of a reception plan. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u263	We now vote on the proposal from the People's Parliamentary Group on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the improvement of the system of contribution and socio-laborative protection of people working at sea. He has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group and that he did not accept the amendment of the Group of the German Nationalist Block. Voted transactional text of G.P.'s non-law proposition. Popular, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the improvement of the system of contribution and socio-laboral protection of people working at sea. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u264	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the adoption by the Government of the measures necessary to ensure full and quality care for all women who have to stop their pregnancy in the second quarter of the management by medical causes reflected in the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy throughout Sergas. The rapporteur has already stated that he accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, and there is a proposal for a compromise with the People's Party that I do not know if an agreement has been reached, if there is and can be read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u265	No, we don't agree, Mr. President. I'm sorry, but I wanted to thank you for the interest the PP MP put on, which we tried to reach agreement, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u267	...we have unfortunately not seen that intention since the Health Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u268	Thank you. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Socialist, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte, on the adoption by the Government of the necessary measures to ensure full and quality care for all women who have to stop their pregnancy in the second quarter of the management by the medical causes reflected in the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy throughout the Sergas area. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u269	We now vote on the Non-Legal Proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, on the request by the Council of Galicia to the Council of the Crown for the opening of the Parrot tunnel. The rapporteur has already stated that he did not accept amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left and the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga and Mr. Gonzalo Trenor López, on the request by the Galician Union to the Town Hall of Coruña for the opening of the Parrot tunnel. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 58; votes against, 8; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u270	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the German Government to prevent the expansion of eucalyptus plantations and to ensure biodiversity and the perspective of the rural environment. The rapporteur for the PSOE has already been asked if it could be the point vote. Do you have a pontiff? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, of course. It asked the Socialist Parliamentary Group to vote on points. It's accepted, so we vote... do you want to group any of the points or...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just four separate? Only 4 separately. [[Murmurs.]] First of all, we vote on point 4 of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to prevent the expansion of eucalyptus plantations and to guarantee biodiversity and the perspective of the rural environment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14 and against 58. The result of the vote is negative. That point 4 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u271	And we vote on the rest of the points. Vote of points 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the G.P. Non-Law Proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco and Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to prevent the expansion of eucalyptus plantations and to guarantee biodiversity and the perspective of the rural environment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u272	We voted in favour of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the establishment by the Government of Greece of the necessary regulatory mechanism to prevent the execution and distribution of photographic images of minors during institutional and political acts carried out in educational centres. He has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members, on the establishment by the Government of Greece of the necessary regulatory mechanism to avoid the execution and distribution of photographic images of minors during institutional and political acts carried out at educational centres. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u273	We now vote on the proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece to rescue the new Vigo Hospital, its recovery as a strategic hospital for the southern Galician area, as well as the creation of a commission composed of all sectors involved in assessing its problems and shortcomings. The rapporteur has already stated that he did not accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Vote of the G.P. Proposal. Socialist, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece for the rescue of the new Vigo Hospital, its recovery as a strategic hospital for the southern Galician area, as well as the creation of a commission composed of all sectors involved in assessing its problems and shortcomings. The voting was as follows: 27 votes in favour, 40 votes against; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u274	And finally, we voted on the proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the call by the Government of Greece for a public job offer covering the total number of vacancies since 2009 in public health, as well as the agreement with the unions of an order to link Sergas's contracts to its motivation. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was not accepted. Sorry, the amendment was accepted. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members, on the call by the Government of Greece for a public job offer covering all vacancies since 2009 in public health, as well as the agreement with the unions of an order to link Sergas contracts to their motivation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u275	We opened the doors and we continued with the development of the agenda item, with the interpelerations. Interpellation of G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the care of persons affected by mortgage or rent
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u276	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u277	Good morning, Counselor. The object of the inquiry is to evaluate the effectiveness of the housing policies of the Galician Union in our country after knowing the data presented by the General Council of the Judiciary, which we are told that during 2015 there were 2,432 releases, 3.5 % less than the previous year. For the first time it goes down, even if it's only fifty and few cases, it's 3%. The data show that each time the evictions rise because people can't afford a rent, it's 1,507 in 2015 and 800 for mortgage executions that go down 14%. But what we're told about this data is that we've followed seven years after the Government of the People's Party in Galicia, and from the beginning of the crisis, with an unacceptable drama in the country, with seven executions, daily releases that take place in this country. With everything that drama means. And so what it means is that after so many years, when the figures remain stable, when there are still unacceptable figures, when even this small rate of decline -- we will explain the causes then too -- would mean that we would take up to 50 years to eradicate our country's challenges at this rate. So the situation is still dramatic and you have to wonder if you or you don't want to solve this problem or you don't know, but the data doesn't lie. You've been unable to improve housing policies to reduce this absolute drama, and I'm not going to repeat what we've always said, that each of these 2,500 evictions is a family drama. There has still been a defiance in the city of Ferrol, a family that had to go to the streets, a family to which the Administration or the Government has not proposed a solution to guarantee a basic right, a human right, to have a home. And they either don't want it or they don't know it, but what's true is that you've made a perfect cocktail for this to happen like this. In this country there is expensive housing, a expensive housing, despite the whole crisis practically the price of housing is not low. That's right, the wages go down, the housing goes down, but the wages go down. We still know the data, the data on the weight of workers' wages and workers' wages with regard to GDP. Even though official figures speak of the most busy in the past year, what they earn most busy, these 19,000 more busy, theoretically, because they represent less weight in GDP in favour of business profits, and that means that they are taking us to a model of total work insecurity, total work instability, and that there are a lot of people, and more and more people, because they get the drawbacks because they can't afford a rent, and many people aren't able to pay rents of 250, 300 or 350 euros, that's what's going on, that's the drama that's going on. And that cocktail is also completed with no public housing policy, no housing policy, no, no, there's no, there's a slight makeup and advertising and propaganda policy; there's no, there's no housing policy. There is no public rental policy, we have repeatedly repeated that when in this country it does not reach 1% the housing for public rent at affordable prices for people, in the most developed countries in Europe it exceeds 20%. When Europe spends between 1.5% and 2.5% of GDP on housing policies, here we do not reach 0.3% of GDP. But there is also no regulation of private rent, and when it is regulated and modified it is always done favouring the tenant, reducing the minimum term for which a person is entitled to be rented from 5 to 3 years, even greater instability, and when that period is over, the owner can put the rent he wants and can modify the price the way he wants. And this doesn't happen in other countries that don't have the drama of European defiance. Precisely the most advanced countries regulate the private rental market that affects housing policy, but it also affects economic policy with commercial sites, although that is not the issue that brings us here today. So it's a perfect cocktail for this to happen, and you at this perfect cocktail are not willing to change anything from the fundamental. You are not willing to make a public rent policy, to mobilize the large number of empty housing that is towards the public rent and increase that percentage, and also indirectly lower the price of the housing, because, of course, there are also other conflicting interests, which are the large owners of the housing, which do not want to lower the housing prices, mainly banks and large real estate, and between those opposed interests, you always choose the same side. Nor are they willing to make a housing investment policy sufficient to change these percentages; nor are they willing to regulate private rents for affordable rents; nor are they willing to change the economic model of precariousness and that people's wages do not give them to live. Make-up and very timid measures only moved by fear of losing electoral support, not by a deep concern about this situation, but it is not explicable that after seven years the figures follow where they are, with that bonus-rent who has almost insecurable conditions for many people, listening to what there is -- when the previous realisation program on all cases of defiance that occurred in two years only managed to raise 43 people -- that we have to hear that the rest did not meet the requirements. If they don't meet the requirements and only serve 43 cases, the requirements are bad and bad. When there are more than 5,000 evictions during that period and only 43 redeployment, the requirements are bad, and the rental bonus still above being very restrictive, the rental bonus, as the private rental market is not regulated, may also be worth raising the rent price on the private market, there is no concern, because there is no mention already of the systematic lack of execution of the housing shares of this Government. A housing expert and a housing defender responds when asked what policies are being carried out in Europe that should be applied in the Spanish state, and says that we should be doing four things that we don't do and that are to a large extent connected to each other. They must mobilize empty homes to rent, what did they do here? We officially have 13% of empty housing, plus 10% of second residence. These are very high numbers, unusual in the rest of the European Union, which demonstrate that the urban and economic scheme is dysfunctional, that the model is not correctly processing reality and home creation, and the fact that soil and other natural resources are limited. Mobilizing housing and capital, it's better to be sold and occupied than empty, but we need to increase our percentage of rent, we need to increase our percentage of public rent, it's a strange proportion in the European Union, countries with lower rent are the least developed in Europe, not the most developed. Finally, we're going to have an old housing park and we have to meet the challenges of rehabilitation. On the other hand, we don't have a public housing service that deserves that name. Nobody talks about home as one of the key elements of the state of well-being. This is all invented, Counselor, there are models to choose from, and you choose a model that excludes many people from a basic right: the human right to have a decent housing. All we have to have is a political will to change the model, and so we see you don't have that political will to change the model, to convert the housing of a business to a right for people; to convert the housing with a source of economic creation into a source of creation of well-being, and to increase public housing policy both in investments and in the social rental public park. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u278	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u279	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. If something characterizes and distinguishes the housing policies of the Galician Union, it is our effort to ensure and protect families at risk of losing their homes, because it guarantees constitutional rights, to address the most disadvantaged and the fight against evictions, since they are the priority objectives of the Government's action. And it's not a few days, a few months, it's, of course, for a long time, that we've been working with programs and specific measures to prevent evictions and support for people of residential exclusion. Measures we have been implementing since 2012, which we have already redoubled our efforts. We approved the new Housing Act, measure number one. Action No. 1, New Housing Act to avoid evictions in public housing and which allowed the donation to be paid in protected housing. Action followed by this Housing Act as a measure of number 1, in December of that same year Programme of Realisations by Mortgage Executions, measured therefore number 2. We thus respond to all those affected who ask for help and who meet two requirements, which I have to say, Mr Sánchez, which are two simple requirements. We have fulfilled what we said, and I have fulfilled our purpose, which, of course, is to redeploy a hundred percent of the people who address us, for that reason the information has to come; that they meet those two simple requirements, and while there is only one family at risk of losing their homes we will not be satisfied and, of course, we will continue to work. After these two measures, more action has been taken, a total of 12 initiatives that we have already launched, 10 already in progress and 2 to put in place; 12 initiatives that we have from Galicia. Action No 3, the Convention between the Judiciary Council, the Fegamp and the Galician Union, a joint action protocol to detect cases of particular vulnerability in housing launching procedures and to provide social measures. I personally had a meeting with the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia that wasn't random, it was within this round of contacts that I've been doing since last year to inform the measures and for the measures to be known and the information to come; for the solution to come we made a balance, constructive self-criticism and we are working on that line. With regard to the data of the Judiciary, I have already explained to you on many occasions, Mr. Sánchez – here in Parliament and in many places – the statistical data of the Judiciary's Council, and you know they're talking about any good likely to execute mortgages. For you is so important a rustic farm, a garage, the summer house, are they as important to you as the usual housing? I'm concerned about the cases of common housing evictions, you seem to be more concerned with those of the rustic farms. We, on that line, are working because we care about the usual housing. Action No. 4, the People's Valedor Convention to channel possible situations of special need and to be immediately attended by the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil. In October 2013, another measure, measure No. 5, the Reconduce Programme. The Reconduce Programme has a more preventive approach to creating a framework for coordination between the various councils and acting in a fight against these challenges. And after all these effective initiatives and measures to fight the mortgage executions, there were other measures to fight the executions, the cancellations for rent default, because reality came to tell us that we had to put the accent there and put the accent there. And that's why over a year ago we approved RehaVita Plan, measure number 6: bailing on the leadership of Galician union politics and intensifying our efforts, both quantitative and qualitative. More resources in new applications, new measures to get even further. Just two measures – I have to say, and I hope you share with me – two measures of great silence, the Sareb Convention, measure 7, and the Financial Institutions Convention, measure 8. The agreement with financial entities, I have to say that to me, of course, it was very relevant, because Galicia's largest financial entity – Abanca – was committed, and he signed with Galicia's board, not to throw anyone out of their home, and that he could remain in his home for a social rent, social rent between 0 and 75 euros, maximum 75 euros. I think it's a relevant measure. And also thanks to that Convention with Sareb and financial institutions, measures number 7 and number 8 have made available to these entities more than 240 empty dwellings, which we are dealing with families in need of social rent. They allowed many families to be solved, Mr. Sánchez: Begoña, Sandra, Dolores... yesterday even in Cotobade, a family with children we gave a solution to a hypothetical execution. Also at Salceda de Caselas we signed a contract to facilitate a Sareb housing for needy families, we're looking every day for solutions for those families. We've asked Sareb and Abanca for a special effort in Coruña and Vigo, because that's where we've detected that we have more problems, in Coruña and in Vigo. By the way, I have to say it's municipalities that have shown total passivity. Yes, Your Honor, Passivity, ask your fellow Tide in the Coruña. I have to say that nothing, Your Honor, all they have promised, equal promises and equal failures. In the meantime, we, I have to say, continue to work, seek new ways to have more social housing, and in addition to the sight placed on families at risk of losing their housing, as I said by emphasising those families who have difficulty paying the rent. We launched measure number 9, the social lease bonus. I have to say that we were pioneers in Spain, an urgent and immediate support measure, which has already resolved many families who have difficulty paying their rent, help 150 euros monthly, 12 months, extendable another 12 months, and also has an additional subsidy of 450 euros to be able to cope with the costs of formalizing a new contract, or also deal with possible debts that families have. We're working to keep no family out of their homes so they can't afford the rent. And this same year, as you will know, we've reinforced that lease bond, 4 million euros in total, and we've also expanded the beneficiaries, including that they can also access this bonus-renter victims of gender violence and also needy families who are deprived of their housing because of extraordinary causes, such as fires or floods. And last Saturday, as you will know, the empty housing census came into force, measure number 10. In this way credit institutions, their real estate subsidiaries, as well as asset management entities, have a six-month period for registration in this empty housing census, which will be public. The empty dwellings of their property, are compulsory for those financial entities, and those who do not do so will receive sanctions. Financial institutions are required to have empty housing in these municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants, because that's where we've detected that there may be more problems. And the census also incorporates, by the way, the possibility that the Town Council, the Town Hall of the Crown, the Town Hall of Santiago, may incorporate the empty dwellings that are detected in their Town Councils and which are incorporated into this Census of empty dwellings. I think it's a very important measure, this of the empty housing census, to have a complete X-ray and need so that we can make all social planning on housing. The goal, as I told you, is that no family is homeless for economic reasons, and that's why we're focusing on our efforts. I told him 10 measures implemented, 2 measures that are on the way forward, to have a total of 12 measures. The Board therefore has a set of actions to deal with situations, a set of measures, Your Honor. In the text of his inquiry, he spoke of the need to bring all the information to citizenship and to professionals. On something we agree, Mr. Sánchez, on something we agree, little help if we don't know each other. That's why I started a round of contacts, even with people who work every day with the most disadvantaged, because they're the ones who can advise, with the Fegamp, with the Nobody, on days of work. The institute also works daily with these lenders, and, in any case, I think it's the duty of everyone to transfer the maximum information. Your Honor, I don't think we should be doing very wrong when there are collectives who, despite the ideological differences that separate us, have publicly recognized the work being done by the Galician Union, especially in Vigo. I insist that we will not be satisfied, in any case, while a single family is at risk of losing their housing. Put my share on, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Replica round, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u281	Counsellor, this speech would be fine if you were the advisor of a newly arrived government, then all these promises would be fine to do things that change this drama, but as it is not the case, and you are a member of a government that has been trying to solve this problem for seven years, in theory, because as I tell you or you don't want – that is what I think – or you are incapacities. It's the two questions. You can't come here to present promises for the future after seven years where there was already the drama, and the data of what you've done, your balance, is 18,000 defeats – approximately – and 43 realos. And if only 43 people met the requirements, the requirements were wrong. And you still have a face here to tell me that the data is from homes, places and everything. But if it had to be an AGE initiative, it asked for verifiable figures and secure figures of what the usual housing was. How do you intend to fight this drama with a minimum of rigour, if you didn't even have the data of how many are habitual housing? How was it possible, and still you get it here by criticizing the data I give, which are from the General Council of the Judiciary. How do you have the face to say, a seven-year-old government advisor, who didn't know what are usual housing and what are local housing? And why haven't they done it before? Or are you telling me that this data of 2,400 drafts have no relevance? Are you taking this data away from you, Counselor? Are you telling me there's no such problem? Tell me I care about rustic farms, and so on. But what are you saying? Is that your level of reasoning? You present strict data of how many ordinary dwellings are these that are being sheltered, and then you will have some credibility. But as long as you don't insult intelligence, and don't insult people who, like today, are leaving their home because of your policies. And you follow in the same, 18,000 challenges, 43 royalties, and you speak of the Housing Law. You must also have a face to talk about the housing law you approved! That reduces levels of protection housing, that reduces, that goes against what should be done to ensure people's housing. Its measures are wet paper, and it says that the rental bonus is a pioneer in the Spanish state. So the rental aid is a pioneering measure in the Spanish State, Counsellor? He's insulting people's intelligence again, but if this is older... But are you serious about the fact that it is a pioneering measure to give 150 euros to those who meet super-strict requirements, and then, still above, serves to raise the price of rents? Is that a pioneering measure? That's how we get our hair. And you're talking about bank agreements. Look, you've used billions of money from all citizens, including the refugees, to save the banks. And now the banks return handcuffs and photographs, still above for publicity. But they don't return solutions, and they don't return housing, that these banks had to be saved by public money. They don't return solutions, they return alms and photographs, they still go out campaigning the banks and Abanca, of the good things we're signing a convention. Right? But actually, not what you say, measure 6, measure 7, actually, people keep going to the street, Counselor, they keep going to the street and you don't give them any solution. What are you telling me, that we're redeploying three cases? The data is there, the data is there, Counselor. If you can rebuff me with data that you have brought down the drama of the defiances, I'll have to shut up, but in the meantime. And he's talking about municipal governments, tides, once again. If you're an expert at boycotting them. You're an expert in boycotting them, with a totally sectarian practice, and how you do that you think the Administration is your corralit to do what you want. Yes, sir, you're an expert at boycotting them. Your model is also to sell the official public protection housing to Voitre funds, as did Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u282	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u283	Yeah, so I know it was the People's Party that did that, right? No, no!, oh, okay!, then it's Madrid's PP, of course!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u284	They don't dialogue, and they're done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u285	Well, Counselor, the reality is we're following the way we're following because you're not willing to change the model to eliminate this drama. They don't care, what they care about is electoral wear and tear. You defend that housing is still expensive, you defend that housing is still expensive because there are interests at stake, of course, because you don't want to lower the housing market for the big owners of the housing, which are banks and large real estate. And you're also not in a position to ensure that in this country there are wages that you pay for a rent or to pay for a mortgage, and that's why what happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u286	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Lockdown, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u287	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, they're not promises, they're ongoing measures that have given solution to more than 400 families, solution to more than 400 families, thanks to these ongoing measures. [[Applause]] I'll explain the data to you again. You're the one who said here that eight wastes a day, and in those eight wastes a day are included the rustic farms, the garages, the suns. So I'm worried about the usual housing, not the rustic farms and summer houses. In any case, the comprehensive solution goes through the collaboration and involvement of all, administrations, associations, agents, each within the areas of their competence. We within our powers, also the municipalities, because the Law of 2008 is there. The Law of 2008 clearly states that the municipalities have competence through their social services, and many times – and, Mr. Sánchez, you know – it is not only a housing problem, but they need full social support. Therefore, the Law of 2008 is there, and it is a law that we must comply with. In any case, within his arguments, to me, of course, they have not proved to be convincing at all, and I, of course, allow me to make observations to the governments of Coruña, Ferrol and Santiago, of course, yes, because they were carrying the flag of the defiances and have not implemented a single measure, Mr. Sánchez, that is the reality! Town Hall of Coruña, star measure: social income that would be implanted in 100 days. There's nothing. What's the result? [[Murmurs.]] Zero. Yes, what are the measures they propose? A proposal to the judges of an informative brochure. Santiago Town Hall, municipal initiative that is limited to a mediation table, mediation table that... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u288	You've spoken, you've spoken. Quiet, quiet. No, no, shut up! Mr. Sánchez, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u289	...no economic content, no staffing, nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u290	Quiet, quiet, Mr. Sánchez, please! No, no, you're answering, and you've already spoken. This is Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u291	In Ferrol, the declaration by the Town Council of Ferrol, free of eviction, with a simple statement that the problems are not solved, Mr Sánchez, the problems are not solved. [[Applause]] And in the case of Ferrol's defiance, I think it said the Ferrol Town Hall that had a table, an office, seems to have given no answer. In any case, I'll give you the 12 measures so you can report on the 12 measures and offer solutions to that family and many others. I think we have to go from promise to fact, to serious work. Serious work is managing, managing and working, not just talking. I think it is inexplicable for you to question the involvement of the Galician Union, when in these Councils of the Crown, Ferrol and Santiago after nine months there is no measure. And there's no government, local or autonomic, that I think I have as many measures, as broad, as flexible and as effective as those that we have in progress at the Galician Union. The Sareb Convention, the Financial Institutions Convention, the Empty Housing Census, the Social Charter... Let's not get stuck, let's keep trying. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Empty measures programme, measure number 11, proposed by Fegamp to mobilize these empty dwellings. The municipalities that want, on a voluntary basis, can join this program of empty housing and mobilize them. And Junta, what will you fund?, guarantees through two insurances: multi-risk home insurance and insurance of income recovery and legal assistance. So you guarantee the renters and also the renters. Convention with the Galician Council, we will sign it in the next few days, measure 12. It will provide free advice and in the same way the Galician Council of Law if it undertakes to advise on all the programs and aids approved by the Galician Council. And it will also participate in the arbitrary mediation procedures of the rent to achieve agreements between the tenants and the renters. Allow me to insist, 12 measures, Mr. Sánchez, to ensure and provide coverage for those people who are affected and at risk of losing their homes. We will continue to work, provide coverage and solution to more than 400 families, not only respond to the housing needs of people affected by mortgage execution, but also the default of the rent. And our politics goes beyond the other collectives, like gender violence. Anyway, allow me to think about it, we're in response to solutions. But a balance sheet: Galician board, 12 measures; Town Hall of Coruña, proposal for an informative brochure. Tell me that swing is that. [[Applause]] We have to work together, this is the way, and on the way to work together, to work hand... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u292	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u293	...to find me on that road, which is what I'm doing. [[Murmurs.]] I'll hand you the document, which I forgot on my scene, of the 12 measures, I'll move it to the president so you can report on our 12 measures and with us you can give those families a solution. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u294	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 6:00. [[The session is suspended at 3:20 p.m. and resumed at 5:00 p.m.]] Interpellation of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other Members, on the compliance and regulatory development of Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u295	Mrs Gallego has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we started this afternoon talking about non-compliances, non-compliances with Mr. Feijóo, the President of the Government of Galicia, on a day when from the People's Party and the President himself at the control session this morning showed us his joy. I was happy because at 11:30 a.m. there was going to be fantastic data for the autonomous community, which eventually became, as always, more of a reality. We begin this debate precisely to speak of a law, Law 2/2014 of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals, which was passed in this Parliament of Galicia without a vote against practically two years ago, Mr Vice-President, and which was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 25 April 2014. Two dates, by the way, for those on the left, and we declared ourselves laymen and Republicans, beautiful: the adoption of the law, the anniversary of the Second Republic, on April 14, 31 and the publication in the Official Journal of Galicia, the Revolution of the Caraveis in the neighbouring country, two beautiful dates, by the way. It is a pity that these two beautiful and dear dates for whom we declare ourselves – I insist – secular, Republican and left-wing – are not also dates when the People's Party, and above all the Government of Mr. Feijóo, may celebrate that this law is being fully developed today, and that it is giving rise to the effects that we socialists wanted when we presented the bill in its day. There are even some political groups, and even some collective, who think that this law is empty and that it has served practically nothing. I don't think so. I recognize myself much more, indeed, in the original text that the Socialist Group presented on its day, and I am aware that many of the people who listen to us today are also better recognized in that text. And even I agree with the recent statements by the people's valet in this institution, when I said that removing from the legal text the sanctioning procedure and infringements was a serious mistake that makes daily work difficult to combat discrimination of treatment. But this can easily be arranged. A small modification of the law has already been achieved. There's a much more complicated target, and that's why I ask you today, Mr. Rueda, which is to develop it if you don't politically bet on it. Only with what you are in this law is there enough work for a government that creates equal treatment, normalization and visibility of LGTBI people. There are actions that must boost administrations that are reflected in this law that have a certain economic cost. We can understand those performances that have a certain delay, that it's harder to put them into action, that they go a little slower than we all wish. But there are others, Mr. Vice-President, who have a zero cost for the current government of Galicia and who have not yet started. There's only one explanation for this attitude, and it's just that the Government has not internalized this law, they don't consider it important or priority, nobody is responsible for it or for its compliance. They gave their vote two years ago, probably, because aesthetically it looked good, and there was everything, in that initial gesture that certainly created expectations and hopes that today are frustrated. These actions are also important in politics, and in politics of equality and non-discrimination of treatment, more. I'd say they're essential, priority, because with the political gesture you're sending a message to citizenship, or several. The first is to visualize the reality of LGTBI people. The second one, to normalize to the eyes of society sexual diversity and affective diversity. The third, to act from the public authorities as exemplifiers of what must be citizen behavior. I believe that this law, in addition, has helped us all and all of us who are part of this parliamentary arch and those who work in the paper and in the text to get to know us better, to know the Greeks and the Greeks better, and to enrich ourselves as people, to make them face and name people who often suffer from discrimination. They also came under this law new associative movements, or if some who were more hidden or simply did not exist. It can be the fruit of causality that coincided in time. I think it's fruit that we start dealing more often with sexual diversity and gender identity. The Government, Mr. Rueda, not only took up what the legal text says, but in most of its actions contradicted what the legal text says: advertising campaigns from the Social Policy Council to promote Family Day, which only teaches a family model, in clear contradiction to article 17 of the law; the absence of references in the public media reflecting citizen diversity, articles 31, 32 and 22 of the law; armarization of older persons and persons with disabilities when they enter the social services circuit – see what happens in residences where these people live the last days of their life – all circumstances that are often denounced by the collectives who represent LGTBI people, and which are reflected in that report of the valet who recognizes the witness and collects the testimony of the associations. In these two years we have known, because they have reached our hands, those of all the parliamentary groups that we are part of this Parliament, the concern of lesbian women for not being recognized in the state standards for being entitled to assisted reproductive treatments. Obviously, they cannot meet the health requirement that they have been treated for a specified period of time before access to treatment in public health. We know the anguish of many homosexual couples when they feel discriminated against by the Public Administration in the adoption or reception processes, even with complaints against U.S. judges. We know the toxicity of the Galego Health Service to assume the costs of reassignment surgeries, even with clear judicial judgments; the difficulty of parents and mothers seeking hormonal treatments for their transsexual children and daughters, and who make genuine pilgrimages by pediatric and psychological consultations, among other specialties, to arrive on time with these treatments and avoid double suffering to trans children. We know cases of homophobic aggression in the Coruña, in Santiago, in the rural environment, without support from the German Government that sends article 18 of this law. These are cases we know, which we could test, know and understand all of them. But there are more silent, more hidden ones, who go through the day and we must denounce them to avoid and end the suffering of many people. I'm talking about discrimination that suffers especially from transsexual and intersex persons before having their identity reassigned both physically and documentally. From children and trans-children who, whenever they give the passage of social transit into families who accept what happens – the most fortunate ones – they encounter the misunderstanding in classes, the absolute ignorance about how they act as teachers, the difficulties of accessing, for example, the bathrooms of the sex they feel and not the sex they have, or the dressing room at the time of the class of physical education, of having a note note with a name and a genre in which they are not recognized, or of those who are sportsmen –Article 29 of the law – who have problems so much to be federated, in order to be able to play on issues related to insurance, or even those who want to do a gesture so often as to pay a credit card in a store and when they ask their DNI does not match the name, and they do not want to charge it, or even when they hand over the health card, or even the stranger they show at the doors of this Parliament when they come to a meeting and have to identify with a genre that does not correspond to their true feeling. Mr. Rueda, specific questions: Article 6, disclosure of the content of the law: What measures did the Government take to raise awareness of the LGTBI people and of the whole of citizenship the content of the law? Article 10, training plans of the Galaga Academy of Security, specific training actions, how many? Article 11, measures to support victims of homophobic violence with social, psychological, medical and legal assistance, how many, where? Articles 12, 13 and 14, measures in the field of work, information and dissemination programmes directed at entrepreneurship, trade union centres, labour inspection, public employment service, how many? Studies on the employment situation of LGTBI people, where are they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u297	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u298	Elaboration of the equality protocol and good practice in the field of work, at what stage is it located? Social dialogue, including measures in collective agreements, where? Articles 19, 20 and 21, measures in the field of health, knowledge of the information collected by the World Health Organization on LGTBI to health personnel, what actions have been initiated? Where are the campaigns and training courses? Guarantee of inclusion in continuing and compulsory training of health personnel, where? Guarantee of health care for transsexuality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u299	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u300	...how? Sexual education and prevention campaigns for specific sexually transmitted diseases for LGTBI people, where are they? Measures in the field of education, Mr Rueda, articles 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the law, inclusion of reality in the plans of study between the ANPAs, activities directed to the school community, training of teaching staff...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u301	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u302	...where is he?, what have you done? Specific answers, Mr. Rueda, go there for two years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u303	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, first of all, greet the President of the Arelas Foundation, who informed me that he is up there, and the representatives of the LGTBI-related groups, and thank them for attending this debate today that we take very seriously, but like you, Mrs. Gallego, he started with a different theme – not to go any further into this subject that has little to do with the debate we have brought – I just want to tell you that some people were saying this morning that with regard to the economic data you would not be happy about, because it goes well with Galicia doesn't mean that it works for you. They must think that everything else, that they're going to try to turn him around. And look, honestly, Mr. Losada, indeed, had – I suppose consciously, because I recognize him as an authority in the matter – a beginner's mistake to give them some argument. And just saying that taking the GDP data at current prices without drawing the inflation data Mr. Losada knows it's not like that, it's like saying that Argentina is growing because we don't take inflation into account. You're right, if what's worth to them is the model and the data that Mr. Zapatero has left us, let's be glad that the data that they have left us are totally different, let's really rejoice. [[Applause]] And said this, Mrs Gallego, you actually bring a very important issue, which can be debated without any problems. For some time, there are two years – they have not met – they are about to comply with – about the formulation of a law that is true that has been promoted by your parliamentary group, but it is also true that you have had the necessary support for your approval, and we support it convinced, the People's Parliamentary Group. He also got it from other groups. But now you say you don't like some of that law that you voted for. Well, because I voted in favour of it, I suppose consciously, and I think we all make a good decision. This legal text, Law 2/2014 of 14 April, sought equality of treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals. What I was proposing was a cross-sectional approach with many departments affected, there were many problems, many situations of discrimination, and many people with sexual orientations who needed to recognize this differentiation to guarantee equality, and therefore there are many eids, many roads, which are necessary to address. And I'm sure you'll agree that everything in less than two years can't be done. This was a necessary law, of course, so we voted in favour of it, a guarantee law, a law that aims to protect and also to improve the quality of life of these people with an integral approach, as I told you, to achieve their security, to their right to justice, to their work, to their family, to their health, to their education, to their culture, to their sport, to their youth, to their communication, in short, to all the issues of their lives; and therefore it was a broad and ambitious law, and I think that we all had in mind when we decided to vote for it. Another thing is that we have to diverge—from then diverge in the name of the Government of Galicia, the Council of Galicia—with regard to its assessment of its application. I don't think you've been well informed, they don't give you enough information, or you're interested, like in economic data, to miss the truth to make your political argument. He insisted that the Government is not doing anything to implement it, to develop it, and he came to say that it does not apply due to a lack of political will. Look, Mrs. Gallego, I'm going to tell you one thing, the lack of political will is to talk a lot, make a lot of proclamations, and in the years that you've ruled you don't approve this law, except they proposed it. But they found a parliamentary majority who supported them, who was with you and who, in the end, - I understood it - made this law of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. That's political will, and the other thing is to advertise, but to do a little bit more. And I think that helps little to the need to guarantee these people's equality. We voted in favour of it, probably not in times when you would like to apply it. I'm telling you, I don't understand, if it's not worth it, because it took four years. You were a member of that government, who could bring this law to Parliament. I can assure you that the People's Parliamentary Group would do from the opposition as it did from the Government, support it. But you didn't bring it up as a government, which had much easier, and then you come here talking about a lack of political will and not persuasion of certain things in which we, of course, are absolutely convinced. Like you ask me specific questions, because concrete answers, no problems. Now, don't tell me about political will when you, as a member of a government, did not take any initiative for this law to be passed. I suppose you'd be aware that the situation of inequality was already taking place in 2005 or 2006, not since the year in which you proposed the law. Look, I'm going to talk to you, because I don't have much time either, about what's being done in the field of health, about education and about the issue of attention and information. And if you give me time – and if you focus on this issue – I'll talk to you about the rest of the issues. In health care, article 20 of the law establishes, and could not be otherwise, that health care must be guaranteed, according to the need and clinical criteria, practices and therapies related to transsexuality. Hormone therapies are being administered, as you know, in endocrinology units. Sexual education and prevention campaigns are being carried out on sexually transmitted diseases; respectful and inclusive awareness campaigns that specifically treat lesbian, gay, transsexual, bisexual and intersex girls as established by law and, as I said, as cannot be otherwise. With regard to the training of health personnel, as you asked me, it is a priority issue and, indeed, it is collected in article 19 of the law, and in the training plan of Sergas and the Health Council for 2016 there is training activities on affective-sexual diversity. Specifically – you asked for achievements – on the one hand, training activities relating to equal opportunities regardless of gender and on the other, prevention, management and treatment of HIV-AIDS and other STDs. The Cherote+ centres, in collaboration with the Health Council, are also developing these actions that include, for example, rapid HIV detection tests or mobile applications campaigns for the gay public. And forgive the speed, but I'd like to answer the specific questions you ask. I'm out of education. You highlighted it, the work on sexual diversity and gender identity from school is fundamental, and I think it had to stand out a lot more because it's fundamental and I think a field where there's a lot more to do, and it's not going to be done until now. That's why the law makes a special emphasis on education, and that's also why we're having a significant impact -- I think -- on this issue and on young people, as I also know that the Education Advisor explained at the attendance he also had on this matter in recent times. Since the 2014-2015 course I suppose you are aware that we have adapted the curricula of the national and autonomic field so that the student in Galicia receives adequate training in values. I'm talking to you about the primary, ESO, Bacharelato curriculum and all those where that's necessary. What's your goal? With the need to avoid sexist behaviors in the school community, stereotypes that discriminate on the basis of sexual identity or gender, as well as to encourage – this is also very important – visibility and LGTBI reality. Also since the 2014-2015 course, it has been included in the order by which the school calendar is approved the possibility that public funds-supported centres carry out specific activities that are, in addition, close to the dates of international celebration – and you were talking about the meaning of dates – dates that are related to the effective recognition of the rights of these groups. We've recently done the "I Respect" campaign to which you don't seem to have much esteem, but I think it was a fundamental first step in a campaign of awareness, awareness-raising – which is needed – around equality, sexual diversity, gender identity, addressed to all society and, in particular, to new people. Thousands of posters were distributed for awareness at more than 1,000 educational centres, and it was also implied – and I think it was time for women's information centres to take care of and take responsibility for these tasks as well. This campaign is supported by actions through the European project Youth Against Gender Violence, in which the Union has been participating since 2013 and ended in 2015, and now the conclusions will have to be implemented. By the way, we announce that this year we will make a call to groups that defend the rights of LGTBI to help them and that they may also continue their work, a free competition campaign in which any collective that is dedicated to these tasks can be presented. And out of the classrooms the Galician Union participated and financed last year's actions with associations Acquire and Bigalicy on sexuality and people with disabilities, and the Querote+ centres promote the formation of families through the family network program when there are – and fortunately – applications from ANPA. As for the training of teachers in university education, you know that universities have autonomy to establish this type of training, but the Galician Union is collaborating. There are already subjects given in the degrees of Maxisterio, Pedagogy and Psychopedagogy of the University of Santiago that address the sociology of gender roles, family, education or the process of building gender identities. Anyway, and with the intention of moving on, we're holding meetings with universities to extend it to the rest of the Greek universities. Next April 20th will hold training days for heads of department and educational guidance, which will address the need to deepen the non-discrimination of the LGTBI group from the point of view of teaching in the classroom. We also want to go further, and we've drawn up a protocol to give a proper response to the gender identity within the framework of the Welsh school coexistence strategy. We will put in place a new matter of free configuration, we will study the implementation of a higher education cycle of FP – I think this is very important – about gender equality, and will also launch the equal education plan with the gallo to promote the acquisition of values and good conduct from school. In the issue of information – I leave it for the second part of the intervention – the centers I love you think they're doing, and they've already done a very important job. We will involve the CIS which are scattered throughout Galicia, more than a hundred, so that they also actively work on all these matters and, ultimately, the honourable Member - I would like to insist - excuse you for the speed of trying to explain and give you concrete answers to specific questions. I think you would agree that no matter, and more when it's complex, is solved in a short time. But I think the important thing is to start; we start with a law that we all approve, the bad thing is that the way is to go straight with everyone's collaboration, without making political criticism for making political criticism. You, like everything else important, always understand it backwards. I ask him to be responsible and not to think, for pulling out a political debt – that he will not pull out – that this is something that involves us all. We showed him that we were convinced that this was the way to pass his law, you when they ruled didn't. Now that we're all on the same path, don't turn around, please, for political bills that I think you won't have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u305	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs Gallego. No, but when the debate is over. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Replica, Mrs Gallego. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u306	Mr. Rueda, if you used all your time to respond to the initiative, you wouldn't have to go so fast, instead of being defending the indefensible. Because, as much as you put yourself in the right place, the reality is that the balance that Mr Feijóo leaves us with this government is: more unemployment, more poverty, more precarious work and the self-indebted autonomous community, with the debt record of the entire history of autonomy. It doesn't matter how you look. [[Applause]] You quoted today in your speech to the President of Arelas. I didn't greet her at the beginning of my intervention because I had thought to ask you, in my second intervention, whether you know the Arelas, Chrysalis, Wings, Ultreia, Cascocomi, Galicia understands or Seven Colors organizations. Or if, in other words, more colloquial, Mr. Rueda, you have, since this law is promulgated, being the most responsible for your disclosure, for your stand-up and for the coordination of all the departments of Galician union, for this law to become a reality, have ever met with the people who are present here today in this debate and who represent the collectives who defend the rights of LGTBI people? And do you know what the answer is, Mr. Rueda? No, never. As the answers to all the questions I've asked you is: never, nowhere, in no case, nothing. That's the answer to law enforcement. Look, Mr. Rueda, don't come and teach the Socialist Party about fighting for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Because it's true that we, when we were in the bipartisan government, in those three and a half years, didn't do all the laws that were to be done in the world. But it is also true that the only laws that have been made in this country, I say in Galicia and Spain, that they defend sexual diversity, the diverse affective-sexual realities, the gender identity, equality in the face of sexual orientation, the fight against macho violence, radical equality between men and women, are laws that carry the socialist party's legacy. You can't say that, in any case, of the People's Party. So, lessons from this guy, Mr. Wheela, few. Look, I don't mean to do anything weird with this plea, I'm on my parliamentary right. Because I belong to the main opposition group, which was also the intellectual author of this bill that was soon passed by all groups or without any votes against. And I'm doing what the citizens claim to do, which is government control, to know if the government does what it commits to. And the laws that are passed here, Mr. Rueda, must be fulfilled, and you are specialists in not fulfilling them, or, better said, in many cases the laws that do not like to keep them in the closet – and never said better – because aesthetically it stood well on their day, but then, to comply with them, none. Look, last year, on the occasion of the first anniversary of this law, we brought here a non-law proposition. And you, again, gave him your favourable vote. And in that non-law proposal we prioritized two issues that seemed urgent and priority, which was to make an education protocol and to make a health protocol to solve an important part of the problems that we now denounce here. A year later, too, this is not done. But look, Mr. Rueda, it's not that they're failing the Socialist Party or this Parliament, they're failing the families and the people they suffer. Because, look, it's been more than eight months since the Galego Health Service that families were told that a work table would be made to coordinate and harmonise criteria, because it can't be that some specialists are giving hormone blockers to children 16 years old and 18 years old. And that's not doing it. And when you tell me about the educational curriculum, the reality, Mr. Rueda, is that you don't want to introduce into the educational curriculum cross-sectionally anything that has to do with diversity and gender identity, and nothing that has to do with transsexuality specifically, nothing that has to do with transsexuality. Because what you say, the excuse they use, is that 80% of the education curriculum is already from Madrid and therefore they can't do anything. And when you tell me that the curriculum talks about sexual diversity, the reality is that the curriculum specifically, for example, of trans people doesn't say anything, it doesn't say anything. And look, Mr. Rueda, what I want to know is how many meetings you had or someone in your department, who coordinated you, how many decrees, orders or resolutions developed the law that was approved two years ago, and if you're really willing to comply with the law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u307	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u308	...to meet the claims of the entities. Let's see his will in the motion. I'm telling you, we're going to present a motion with specific deadlines – it's not worth it coming here with the legislation about to exhaust ourselves from promising us things for within three years – with specific deadlines for it to be done within this legislation. But, Mr. Rueda, there is no need for them to invent, there are autonomous communities that started later and go faster. Look, there's education and health protocols...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u309	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u310	...in Andalusia, in Extremadura and the Basque Country, for example. And there are ID papers in the Basque Country, which have just started in December of last year, ID papers so trans people don't suffer that double discrimination every time they have to teach the national identity document. Are you willing to apply what the law says? Are you willing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u311	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u312	...to solve the problems that families have? Incorporating the sanctioning procedure into the law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u313	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u314	Changing the law to recognize transsexual reality? Identifying with a transitional document until trans people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u315	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u316	...can they have their DNI changed to avoid that suffering?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u317	Thank you, thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u318	Are you willing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u319	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u320	...or will they continue to do the same as until now, Mr. Rueda?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u321	Your time is over now, Mrs. Gallego. Thank you. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, it's just that I really don't want to turn this into a political debate... so I won't waste my time talking about other things, as you did... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u323	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u324	Yes, well, but political on the specific subject, not political on other things, as you did in both interventions; you did not resist the temptation to do so either in the first or the second. So, look, the problem is that you're in everything that has to do with the defense of rights – which I insist that we're all absolutely committed – all they care about is having this champion march. They're the ones who teach everyone lessons, they're the ones who have to have the recognition that they're the only ones who care about people. Look, we're all worried about people, Mrs. Gallego. And, of course, while we're wasting our time trying to get us recognized and not working, because what happened to you, who's been in the government for four years, has made a lot of proclamations, but it turns out that afterwards the law had to be approved by the People's Party. That's what's going to happen to you, Mrs. Gallego; that's what's going to happen to you. [[Applause]] You ask me – excuse me because you did not greet the collectives in the first intervention, you will know – if you meet them. They met with two councillors, with whom they asked for their appointments, specifically – and, of course, if they ask for it with me, they will have absolutely no problem – with the Health Adviser and with the Education Adviser, to discuss specific issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u325	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Gallego, I really want to tell you that I recognized you in the first intervention that many things are left to do, that this is a complex issue, that we approve the law among all and that we should encourage it among all. You're now the law that has passed me, so we're not willing to change it. Hey, you voted for her! If you didn't agree to many things of the law, why did you vote for it? If it seemed to you that it was an incomplete law, if it seemed to you that it was a law that was not going to meet the objectives, if it seemed to you that it was unfair why did you vote for it? Why, when we all voted in favour of it, didn't I recognize that it was a lie what I was saying, that it was right what we were doing and that what was corresponding was pushing it, how did we start doing it? We did it in a lot of ways, and there was a lot to do, of course there was a lot to do. And of course you have the whole right of the world – so far we could get there – not to agree with the pace of execution of this and anything else that's taking the Government of the Union, but we're taking steps to implement a law that we all vote for. And that's the first thing you should be worth. But it doesn't matter to you, you're already asking me to amend a law that you voted for, you're denying me meetings that took place and you're saying that I'm not interested because they don't meet with people. Fellows and fellows of my government have gathered together, who have asked these collectives to have these meetings to talk about specific subjects that they care about and that we are willing to implement; perhaps not at the pace that they would like, that I can accept, not at the pace that they would like, but by doing it. [[Applause]] As long as we take this in the political debate, there will be no progress on health, education or equality in all the issues of their daily life, as they have all the rights of the world, for the LGTBI collective, and they have to talk about them. But if we start with this kind of debate to say that it's not worth anything, that there's nothing being done, to try to extract political revenue and to say you don't agree with the law that less than two years ago voted in favour, I don't understand anything, probably these collectives don't understand anything and, of course, they're not going to get anything absolutely clear. We're going to keep trying to implement this law, we're going to keep doing stages, we're going to try to keep speeding up, I'm going to miss it more!, and trying to get the conquests going little by little, but doing things right. We won't even look at him that you in four years as a member of a government did absolutely nothing, that you now come to say that you don't like the law that voted in favor and that you come to try to face and put us on top of those groups that at least – don't teach anyone – care as much as you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u327	Thank you, Vice President. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Losada? What do you want the word for? And based on what article, please? Yes, give a voice to Mr. Losada's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u328	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 76.1, 76.2 or 76.3, what you prefer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u329	Or allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u330	For allusions, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u331	I'm sorry, but I don't... [[Laughter]] Excuse me a moment, which I have been paying attention to the debate. Yes, yes, attentive enough to know who introduced a subject that had nothing to do with the question was Mrs. Gallego, and I understand that Mr. Rueda answers to Mrs. Gallego on that matter. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes. I understand that. So I didn't see that allusion, I didn't see it. I didn't see her. And you know, in addition, that the subject you want to talk about has been introduced into a question today morning by you on a subject that wasn't either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So... in the Cunqueiro...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u332	But without quoting anyone. I promise you not to talk about politics, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u333	Mr. Losada, that's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u334	...in view of the fact that we are in a courthouse and not in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u335	Thank you, Mr. Losada. It doesn't work. Thank you very much. La Maria Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the merger of municipalities
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u336	Mrs. Soneira has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u337	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, to welcome citizens and citizens of Sardinia and Cotobade, but also municipalities that are affected by decisions taken by the Government and which are a reason for this call, we want to believe that within planning. We'll see if it is. Here too are representatives of Forcarei and the Road, as far as I know, because they will also be affected. The truth is, when first here the president of the board, at a certain point, announces that two municipalities, Oza dos Ríos and Cesuras, will be merged, for, well, it seemed surprising, because they weren't even municipalities of a great entity, but of course they were part of a government plan in a model for the country where the pros, contras and moreover there would be priorities. Well, the party's over, the romary's over, and then we'll talk about Oza and Cesuras. But recently Mr. Rueda, who wanted to be no less, and recently enthroned President of the People's Party in Pontevedra, also made his announcement, because it seems that the announcement of the merger of two municipalities with the office of president, or the Union or the People's Party is inherent. I asked my colleagues in the economic area whether any of the documents that the Galician Union presented to the European Union, to the state, in any of the plans that developed the future ad development of the Autonomous Community contained a reference to the merger of municipalities, its virtues, its eves, its advantages, the priorities to merge this, that or that, etc., etc., and, of course, that I knew – for that reason, Mr. Rueda, I don't doubt that you are going to illuminate me – there is no plan, project, study or any other document that examines the situation of Galician municipal map by the Galician Union itself, which seemed to be the natural one, and above all on its part, which is the responsible person of the area. I am not aware – at best – of the fact that there are documents that analyse the circumstances of each and every one of Galician municipalities, of their socio-economic situation, of their foreseeable demographic evolution, but, of course, of the statistics of the Galego Institute of Statistics or of the INE, of their economic evolution, administrative dependence and other variables that seem to be common sense that we would know them to address a model of municipal distribution within the territory. I am not aware that there is any document that analyses, advises or recommends formulas for cooperation, integration or fusion of two or more municipalities, depending on variables that are objective and measurable. No clear and objective protocols are known to address fusion projects, beyond a constant that repeats in both cases: it is a sine qua condition not that they are governed by a mayor of the People's Party. The objective, physical, economic, demographic, environmental conditions seem to be accessory; the most important thing is that in front of each of them there is a mayor of the People's Party and, of course, compliance with the law, although you also know that there is an interpretation of how to approach it sometimes. The Oza dos Ríos experience. It's very important because it's been a while and we can see which modus operandi is. First, the merger responds to the political interests of the president of the Union, who comes here to appear and as a great announcement says he will merge two municipalities with little population, with relative economic importance... at last, some of the many modest municipalities of the rural environment. It caught by surprise the whole world, the media, members of the People's Party, up to the concelers of these two municipalities, I no longer say those of the opposition, that this is almost normal, in the way of doing these things, but also those of the government teams, who knew nothing. After they announce it, there are reports that advise you; that's right, without any technical guarantee, because some even sign the mayors, simply taking statistical data – that goes down any of the pages of so many that we have there. They're taking note because it's the same modus operandi. And then comes the bombardment. This would be the repertoire, which the boys would say: a larger centre; a Coke bottling plant – that it would be..., were the bottles for a conveyor belt..., they told it with all the luxury of details –; the installation of a biomass plant that would give work to more than 500 people, in a population of 5,000 inhabitants – 10%; they would all work, including retirees –; the emptying of a terrace that passes through Oza where the Ministry of Development was involved – I don't say about – suspensive points –... lorito, who would also say the boys, because it is surprising, 3 million euros of investment – and the transformation of the old real way, which unites the two urban centers. Well, the reality is that we don't have a bottle plant or an investment in Ence or a major center, and it turns out that the real road is almost on its way early, because its budget is reduced to poverty and, by the way, it hasn't started yet. And then we were going to save a paste on unproductive expenses, public office salaries, staff reductions, taxes and municipal fees, services were going to be better off than it was a miracle... the result is that today the expenses of a single corporation are higher than those of the previous two. The first measure that took the mayor of the merged municipality was to triple the salary. It is there, it is in the budgets of the municipality, denounced by the opposition, and it could not be answered because it was objective, it is published in the official bulletins. And, by the way, Mr. honourable Member, he went up the garbage rate and went up the water receipt by putting it on a case. Finally, we can even talk about urbanism, which, of course, continues to be divided and divided and there is no more services. And now touches Cercedo and Cotobade, the same procedure: absolute darkness, alien to citizens again. First the merger is announced and then the reports are constructed to measure; some of them are curious, signed by the mayor, because there is no official who dares to put his signature on some papers called reports. It offers a happy arcade, and I look at the data – which Cañita Brava would say, which we quoted yesterday – offers, for example, an investment that is even more spectacular: next to this council that is going to merge there is another council, but, of course, in that rule the reds. So he says, as there are two PP mayors here and I convince them and they decide to merge, I'm going to pull out the Cotorredondo Wildlife Recovery Center and I'm going to transfer it to this new county -- I'm going to invest, Mr. Wheela; you're even more modest than your president. And this, in addition, has more consequences, because this affects the judicial party, affects the services of neighbouring municipalities, educational services, health and even security services, because in one of them there is a headquarters of the Civil Guard. The transfer of the population from Sardinia to Cotobade to a new judicial party like Pontevedra will have consequences for the redistribution of provincial deputies to the Deputy of Pontevedra, Mr Rueda, yes or no? And by the way, what the mayor of Forcarei says or the mayor of the Road, who tell his neighbors that they are not afraid, that they will convince you -- it would be important for him to clarify it -- that despite the loss of population, despite the law saying what it says, if it will keep the Judiciary Party of the Road, the services in Forcarei, and you will continue forward with your project. I don't judge whether it's good or bad, but the method, the method. And despite this, as you have direct threads with you -- the two are from the PP, and that's a very important value for planning the country's municipal development -- it seems that you guarantee, above anything else, the maintenance and survival of the Judiciary Party of the Road and even the level of services that I will forge right now. Mr. Rueda, you did some study in all the municipalities of Galicia that tells us exactly what the situation is, which will allow us to evaluate at the end. There's even some investigator around here on his own who proposes a certain number of municipalities. But that's an investigator's opinion on his own. Is the Administration clear what the number would be? Based on what coordinates? Is the Administration clear, after doing the corresponding studies, what are the criteria for recommending merger between municipalities? And it can be very important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u338	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u339	...to communicate services, to give better services to citizens. But can merger only be between municipalities that are governed by a single political party? Do objective data advise that? You're on the basis of your decisions? You get up in the morning and so, cheerfully, as anyone doesn't want the thing, they say: well, today plays a fusion. Let's go! Is that the point? Mr. Wheela, I think you're a smart person, an experienced person, who also comes from the local administration, and I'd like you to tell me that behind this there's a serious planning and not an occurrence. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u340	Thank you, Mr. Soneira. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, of course, is that if you – and I quote your words – call all this to talk about "festa" or "romería" mergers, as I said, it is very difficult for us to agree. I think this is a little more serious, a lot more serious. And he says we improvise. Let's not improvise at all, or else! I think you agree that we've been failing nobody at all for years, saying that voluntary fusion is a way for the Galician Union to bet on, of course! That's what we've been saying for so many years. And of course, this is accompanied by a policy of promotion, a policy of promotion, of municipal cooperation. If you can't get to the merger, you can't get to it, it's very difficult, otherwise there would be more. Fortunately, some case eventually crystallizes, but of course, the municipalities collaborate. It's just that no one used to talk about it! You say I come from the city hall. In fact, before the Town Councils didn't want to collaborate, now at least the Town Councils collaborate, sometimes a little hard. You know that you put yourself on the Board of Auditors that there were a number of things: first, to report the accounts, and then to collaborate on some grants to access them, and, more or less, they're gradually entering certain services. Of course this has to be talked about, and it has to be done like this, with a planned policy. And we, of course, are doing it. And also in the mergers. In 2013, in the state law, when it was the reform of the local regime – it is true that some precepts have been annulled now – we already said that we had to make a law here because we were not in compliance, but in others. And some of those who remain vigilant and the Constitutional Court did not touch because they said they were well those who promote municipal mergers, economic measures, encouraging measures. That's what we proposed from Galicia, and there they go, and they're fine. The Constitutional Court has not touched them, for something will be; because they are legal and they are viable to us. And, of course, from the institutional viewpoint, we've also touched on that. We have just approved – by the way, with the approval of the FEGAMP, in which your party is also presiding – a fund of 2 million euros to promote mergers, because we must encourage, above all at first, because it is not easy, of course! And because we're gonna keep betting on this policy without improvisation. That's why I call it improvised exercise, that's what's complicated. Here we have to generate – and we are generating – a policy framework and an institutional framework, which I was referring to, and we will continue to do so. And of course it has positive effects, of course! The coefficients for calculating participation in state income of merging municipalities are increased. That can't deny me! There's a guarantee to raise the minimum funding that these municipalities have. That's in the law, and it's up to you. There are advantages to the call for grants. We're increasing it in all those where it's possible, and we're gonna do it, you'll see it now. We support when asked – and I hope that many municipalities will ask for it because that means that there are more municipalities that bet on fusion – support to draft their urban planning instruments and their financial planning instruments. The Union will support them, and that they have to do the deputies; what happens is that some deputation is for other things, it seems. But we, of course, at the Galician Summit are going to do it. And what I was telling you, there's a special fund of 2 million euros for funding and promoting mergers. But this is the institutional framework, the legal framework, then the political framework is needed. So, of course, that's where we started having problems. And then you say, there's a few mergers, it's just that there seemed to be a lot of them. It's just that many municipalities, logically, fortunately some of those that govern the Socialist Party don't pay much attention to their leaders. But of course, when you see that the most important party of the opposition to today, the second party in Galicia, you call them grounded in fusions, you demining them and putting them on the ground like you put them here and how you put them in the media many of your fellows – much more than you did here, probably because you're in this gallery and you feel more responsible, but some of your fellows don't feel responsible and say what they say about mergers – that they say they're patched up and that they're political propaganda, it probably doesn't cheer those who are thinking about it. There's a socialist mayor who doesn't pay much attention to you. The mayor of Pontecaldelas has just said that what he wants is to merge with the Town Hall of Cotobade, that the merger is very good. It's not good with the Town Hall of Sardinia, which is called this, but it's good with the Town Hall of Cotobade, and it's betting for the mergers. He shouldn't have listened to you or other socialist leaders. And mayors of Alfoz and Valadouro are talking about merging. So maybe they don't give too much heed to what you say. They said publicly. I'm talking about the ones who made public statements. Of course, listening to you and seeing your reaction, it's sometimes difficult, and I understand that someone is going back. But we're going to continue with this policy. Look, in that line of distrust, you ask me specifically about the studies that were done for the fusion of Oza-Cesuras. Exactly those who mark the law. I suppose you'll know that in recent years – and I don't agree with it because I don't think the problem of the municipal plant is that there are many municipalities, but quite the opposite – there were many segregations, almost all in councils governed by the Socialist Party, so that other councils might arise. I tell you 3: Sunday Pérez Town Hall in Granada, 474 inhabitants of the new Town Hall; Serrato Town Hall in Malaga, 500; Jatar Town Hall in Granada, 633. These are the new municipalities that are emerging, and I don't think Galicia needs 500 city councils. They're supporting for municipalities. They are socialist councils, they disintegrate, and it turns out they have socialist mayors or mayors. And they follow a procedure that no one has questioned, exactly the same procedure that follows in Oza-Cesuras. And nobody said anything at all because it's the procedure that's in the law, it's what to follow. By the way, I don't know if you've studied the feasibility documents of those socialist councils that have segregated. I do, and they say exactly the same thing, I'm a picture of each other. We didn't do this in Oza-Cesuras. They study the conditioners and they see whether it's viable or not. So if you comply with legality and if the municipalities want to do so, they do. And they say, they're just mayors of the People's Party. Listen, no, I'm telling you, there's some socialist mayor who's proposing it. But if they did, there would be no mayor of the Socialist Party, listening to what the leaders of the Socialist Merger Party say; what the leaders of the Socialist Party say here in Galicia. You'll see, too, what happens is that it's wet paper, we said it all over the world. It will be seen that in that document for the future Government of Spain that signed the Socialist Party in Spain and Citizens, in that leaflet nothing more – and many more than it is dedicated to the local administration – should not be very important, and it turns out that in the most important part it speaks – and I read textually: that they undertake to encourage, in coordination with the autonomous communities – I would like to see here the coordination they have with the Galician Union of Socialists in Galicia –, the rationalization of local entities in Spain, promoting the voluntary merger of municipalities, in order to provide effectively and efficiently the same level of service to all citizens, regardless of where they live. That's exactly what we want to do, so we talk about voluntary fusion. Listen, if what you believe – because it says that general studies are needed – and what you're thinking is a generalized and compulsory merger and that we lie with 314 municipalities in Galicia – I hope 313 in a little while – and we get up with 200, as happened in other countries, present this study, tell us, without any problem, if that's their intention, because at the end of this is not clear. It's a merger or something, isn't it? Listen, fusion is yes, but when there's fusion, we're opposed to each other, they're patched. They're never good, I don't like documentation, I don't want to know anything. I do not receive them, as the president of the Pontevedra Parliament does, who says he will receive them only when he touches them; in total, a merger procedure is of no importance at all. You have to receive before – and it seems to me very well if you had also received the city halls – the platforms that are opposed to fusion. The legitimately elected mayors – mostly absolute, by the way – and representing their neighbours, they do not deserve to be received, for them there is no rush. That's the responsibility of some Members, who then say they have problems and ask the Galician Council for funding to serve services because small municipalities cannot attend them and they can't attend them either. That's what's ventilating right now, Mrs. Soneira. That's the responsibility of a government that's never hidden that's in favor of voluntary mergers, and that's the irresponsibility of a socialist party that calls them patochadas, that says it's in favor and, when one appears, he shoots it with cannon bullets, he talks about studies that he doesn't even know and says they're that, beatados that don't deserve to be considered and, of course, that must be despised. We're not going to go that way. Look, Oza-Cesuras, I was wondering what the results are. Well, look, an increase in revenues from the IEP, over EUR 118,000 per year, an increase of 14%. They went from EUR 157 per inhabitant to almost 200. Reduction of €25,000 per year at the cost of corporate representatives. You said it wasn't true; a reduction of 25,000 euros. Reduction of expenditure over 10% per year, which is realized in a savings of EUR 60,000 per year as a result of the application of economies of scale, direct application, nothing more to begin the merger. Increase in the transfers of the Union to the municipality over 34%; from EUR 1.7 million in 2013 to EUR 2.3 million in 2015. Those are the immediate consequences, and we'll be developing it if they leave us, if they don't put it in stock every time they have a chance. If instead of being proud that in view of the segregation of municipalities of 300 or 400 inhabitants who propose socialists elsewhere in Spain despite what they sign with Mr. Rivera, here in Galicia we have a merger, at least support it, at least observe it, not run it, not criticize it, not talk about data they don't even know, and see if things go well for the example. I insist, volunteer, there's no obligation here. You say Oza-Cesuras was a disaster. You know more than 64% of the neighbors of the Oza-Cesuras Town Hall, than in the municipal elections – I don't think it's best to evaluate what people think – supported the new mayor of the newly merged county. Of course, as you always know much more than normal people, people in town, teach lessons, and that's how it goes! We're going to follow what we believe, we're going to continue to apply it, and if you're ever a responsible party and support it, welcome, and, if not, we already know that they're in the place where they are, and where they're going to be worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u342	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u343	Mr. Rueda, I have the custom to always suppose my interlocutors at all levels, at least the same intelligence as I suppose I have; at least. Of course, you're here to tell me things that I didn't say...! I didn't tell you I was against – not the Socialist Party – mergers. I'm not against driving cars along the roads, now, if in front of that car there's a guy who doesn't know the traffic code or the speed limits or even the mechanics or the basic rudiments of the instrument he's holding in his hands, you'll tell me! And you come to confirm here that you are addressing and encouraging the mergers of the municipalities where you rule for mere improvisation, without any objective data, without any planning. You tell me about Oza. Listen, would you like me to remind you here of the banners that your mayor hung up, complaining bitterly about the policies of Montoro and others? Do you want to tell me where the investments were planned for there? It is true, when you come from a certain level of population, that you have increased the contributions of the State. And does that guarantee the survival of the municipality? Will you slow down that contribution, both in Oza-Cesuras and in the recent project, the ageing of the population, the increase in income, the depopulation of the rural environment, the creation of services and activity there, the rooting of young people who have to emigrate? I suppose the merger will be for something, not just for the state to send us a few thousand euros more a year, because at the end, you say what you say, those thousands of euros plus they were produced in Oza-Cesuras were to increase the salary of the new mayor. Man, now! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Like what's going on!Is that what you're talking about? [[Murmurs.]] Of course, we passed by, and it turns out that you take the papers and look at the numbers... I insist, I presume you, at least... I think you have more intelligence than I have, so don't treat me under that scale. Tell you we're against it. Mr. Rueda, it's just bothering me to say it! Look, it turns out that one moment they got up in the morning, after doing a study, four mayors, – four! – they had a needle – I must also recognize it – none of them were mayor of the People's Party: Mayor of Camarinas, PSOE; Mayor of Vimianzo, BNG; Mayor of Zas, BNG; Mayor of Muxía, PSOE; and they're going to talk to their Environment Director and tell him: we have a problem with the garbage collection, it's economically impossible for our neighbors. Here's a study, we propose an alternative for the joint collection to reduce the receipt to less than half. That goes for three years, still waiting for an answer. And the thing comes to a limit that, of course, as the mayors turned around to call, to see if they're tired, because now they're not put on the phone. Perhaps, Mr. Rueda, you could – without studying, as you did in this case and as you did in Oza – get up one day in the morning and decide to meet with these mayors and ask them if they would like to pool the garbage collection. Because it really affects the quality of life of the neighbors and in savings, which can be measured, which is in the study. But no, because – I said before – these four mayors have an important asset, which are not mayors of the People's Party. Mr. Wheela, from this appearance I find that there is no roadmap, no planning, and there is no study that advises the fusion of this, of that or of the other. Because maybe it's not appropriate for some municipalities to merge, either, but perhaps based on a thorough study of their socio-economic reality, and even culturally as well. Because you know that a fellow of yours, of what you now deny, because it seems that the Fraga Government has never existed, there was someone in the Ten who proposed that the Ten give themselves the conditions to make a macro council. I don't know if they give or don't give, but I wanted to do a study and they were doing something in advance. Did you take it into consideration? I don't know, it seems that this is more a product of pure improvisation – I said before – and to look for an opportunity at a given time. And, of course, in this particular case, where we're talking about councils belonging to different judicial parties, which for the next municipal elections may have an impact on the allocation of provincial Members, and I've already told you, and I repeat for the last time, as I know you're a smart man, I'm convinced that you haven't done this for free, Mr. Rueda, understand? [[Mr. Rueda Valenzuela pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Because you said, when you took possession, you wouldn't encourage motions of censure, because you also know that they have bad press. But this way, Mr Rueda, there is no need to encourage a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u345	You have a track open here perfectly legal – I'm not going to discuss it – to change the majority, for example in the Pontevedra Parliament. By the way, in the Deputy of Pontevedra for less than a year, this Government, you should ask Mr. Louzán what he has done all this time to improve the living conditions of the rural municipalities in the province of Pontevedra. And tell me by step – if you like – how many mergers I have proposed over all those years that Mr. Louzán has devoted himself to doing artificial grass football fields.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, I know that in view of the management you're making very secure in the Deputy of Pontevedra you don't see. But, of course, if you think that by merging Sardinian and Cotobade there goes the Deputy of Pontevedra, you are much more lazy than you thought, frankly, much more lazy yet. [[Laughter]] It's good to know, if you think you're going to lose the Deputy to do a merger, I'm going to tell you again, Mrs. Soneira, that we believe in the mergers. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u348	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u349	We believe in mergers; honestly, Mrs. Soneira, you don't believe it. Because, of course, it is to say: no, if mergers look very good to us, theoretical mergers are perfect, we will always support mergers with a single condition: that there is never one; because as soon as there is a merger, we will go through them, we will say that they are useless and that we are doing them to recover the Deputy of Pontevedra. Do you realize his theory? Do you realize what your theory is if you go there two mergers and they always say they like you very much? [[Murmurs.]] I mean, you didn't mean that, I suppose you don't want to do it or you don't plan to govern, I don't know, because I give you a lot of transcendence to sign to govern Spain, and therefore also basic legislation and local regime – you know it just as I do – will affect Galicia. To sign a pact saying that voluntary merger must be promoted in collaboration with the autonomous communities and that then it does not refer to that – I suppose because it does not suit you – and here they say what they are saying and doing what they are doing... And I'm going to tell you that the president of the Pontevedra Deputy has been less than a year, but it's taken months to, at least, receive two mayors who have won for an absolute majority and are asking you to receive them to talk about something as important as changing the municipal map; because, in fact, it's changing the municipal map, and they want to tell the Deputy of Pontevedra. Something you'll have to say, because you'll also have to report. I can imagine what the report will be, without knowing the city council documents yet, because just as you've already spoken ill of them and said they're useless, and you still don't know them. Because, of course, Mrs. Silva doesn't know them and says the merger is absolutely useless, and I suppose she'll report negatively. Look, you here – I'm sorry to tell you with all due respect – discovered the powder, yes, because it says: no, it is that the municipalities increase funding because the population increases. It's that these are the advantages of fusion, it increases the population, jumps from a stretch and, therefore, exponentially increases the income they receive from the state and the board of Galicia. It could also be from the Deputy, you alluded to those posters and said, "Montoro doesn't meet Oza-Cesuras, and we agree, he didn't do with Oza-Cesuras. And we asked him to apply retroactively the advantages of fusion, the only fusion that had been in Spain in many years, and he didn't. And we publicly said we disagreed, as in other things that Mr. Montoro did about the local administration. And I said it on this stage, said it by the president of the Galician Council and said it by the parliamentary group, and we had to make a law to overcome the evasiveness of state law. We said it without any problem, we didn't resort to it, it's true; but we did many things to avoid prejudices that could result from a law with which precepts some of them disagreed, with the mergers yes. And we also agree with that poster that says, "Fucky, give us back ours," because you also know that the Crown Deputy, as the Socialist Party ruled, despite winning the People's Party, has cut off all the help he had to the newly merged municipality, Oza-Cesuras. We also agree with "Formoso, give us back ours." [[Applause]] What were the reasons for automatically making the decision to cut off Oza-Cesuras funding? [[Applause]] What was a council governed by the People's Party that had increased support after the municipal elections? After being merged, after all the neighbors and neighbors of Oza-Cesuras knew what the merger was, they knew what they had before and what they had after. Listen, if you -- and you in general -- were to have a People's Party debate there, or are the neighbours and neighbors of Oza-Cesuras stupid? And knowing they've suffered a lot of prejudices for a poorly planned merger that only brings economic losses and decreases, it turns out that support for the mayor of Oza-Cesuras has increased. What are you calling neighbors fools? Or perhaps you have to admit that they're quite smarter than you think and that they saw that fusion brings advantages and so at a time when I have to admit that the People's Party has had bad results in other municipalities, even in the area, it turns out that in Oza-Cesuras we have increased support. What happened then, Mrs. Soneira? I appreciate that the neighbors... the bad thing is that, of course, with the environment that you create, it's hard for them to go on a little by little; but it's just that little by little they're going to see the benefits of fusion. Tell me about these four municipalities that were asking for a commonerity. No, the communities are voluntary – I suppose you will know – they don't depend on the Galician Union to create a community and provide the service together. I suppose they'd talk -- even now in these months that's been in the Crown Deputy -- so they'd give them help and they'd say no. So, of course, if you don't give them to the Council of Galicia, Members can't count; I suppose so, because in order to create a Commonwealth, you don't need authorization from the Council of Galicia at all. And, look – to finish, if I'm done with time – you tell me that the studies, which we don't have studies, that you haven't seen them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look – I'm sorry to say it, because I don't usually refer to it, but there's Mr Méndez Romeo – when I arrived at the council office there were 500,000 euros – some of them had to pay for the Board of Galicia, but I was already the advisor – of study on the viability of the metropolitan areas, specifically that of Vigo, 500,000 euros. To conclude, you know what, that it was better to make a common consortium of firemen. Fortunately, we want Vigo more, we want municipalism more, and we believe the municipalities should collaborate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u350	Thank you, Vice President. [[Words are spoken from the public stage that are not perceived.]] Yes, please, the House services help our guests leave the plenary, please. [[Words are spoken from the public stage that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Help the House services. They collaborate with the guests. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. We turn to item 7 on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Filgueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the talks held between the Galician Union and the provincial deputies to analyze the feasibility of a change in the model of management of the provincial consortia of firefighters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u351	We begin with the question of Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, of the Popular Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u352	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Vice-President, he does not believe that Mrs Soneira's action now has anything to do with the role of control of this House over the Government. I think it has much more to do with the political casting that the Socialist Party of Galicia, the PSdEG-PSOE, lives in search of this new secretary general for the next quarter. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] We're going to talk at this point in the fire station, depending on the provincial consortia, that's what this question is about. The opposition here in Galicia has us very accustomed to using a double language on the management of public services in Galicia. When ruling the People's Party they talk about privatization, when ruling socialists with nationalists or tides they talk about indirect management. They are socialist euphemisms based on the maxim of "do what I say, not what I do", which is essentially to what the Socialist Party here devotes itself to in Parliament. Well, after demanding for a long time and with great concern the direct management of firearms parks dependent on provincial consortia, it seems that the presidents of provincial deputies dependent on the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego are no longer so interested. Now the real priority was to change the provincial deputation logo of Pontevedra and add as many stars as the municipalities there are in that province. And unfortunately Mrs. Carmela Silva will have to change that logo, because she has one left, after the merger of these two municipalities. Well, last January 12th to Junta de Galicia held a meeting with the presidents of the provincial deputies – from Coruña, Lugo, Ourense and Pontevedra – addressing the situation of the provincial consortiums of firemen and establishing a one-month period to analyze the feasibility of a system change in the provision of the service At that meeting – we knew him through the information provided – he showed his willingness, the willingness of the Government of Greece to explore the possibility of moving forward between the Union and the Members, to study the feasibility of a change in the management system – of indirect management, as required by the parties on the left – and to study conveniently the legal and economic viability; ensuring in any case the workers' rights. In this sense, from the People's Parliamentary Group we want to request the assessment of the Government of Galicia on the talks held between the Galician Union and the provincial deputies to analyze the feasibility of this change in the model of management of the provincial consortiums of firefighters. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u353	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Responds to the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u354	Mr. President. Well, Mr Tellado, briefly, by taking a little bit of a look back and explaining what situation we are in and what situation we are in, what situation we are in and what situation we want to reach. In the year 2000, there were no fire parks but those of the seven cities in Galicia. In the year 2000, the first park, the one of the Ten Tabeiros, was opened by direct management, and at that time I had the responsibilities of director of the local administration and we came to the conclusion that we had to choose whether we really wanted to extend the model by another different approach and that I was pioneering at that time. And it remains – I have to say it now – even though many political representatives have stated that if they didn't already have the system started, they would probably opt for it. And we talked to the deputies, even though at that time – and not now – the Galician Union had no emergency skills and, therefore, in fire parks – it has to be said. The Law of 2007 of the Bipartite, so it referendumd it, and the Basic Law of Local Regime also – as if there were any doubts – confirmed it again. However, the Galician Union has been involved since the beginning, paying at least 50% of each of the parks, and we have started a new system. I have to say that it was at that time that we decided to collaborate with the deputies, with Mr. Moreda, the socialist, president of the Crown, and Mr. Xaime Bello, the BNG, the vice president, and decided to opt for the system that is currently in force. And in the Pontevedra Deputies and the Ourense Deputies, it's true that there were governments of the People's Party and the three deputies broke out with the park system, which allowed the model to continue to extend. During the Bipartite – as far as I know – and I think I know all the data, not the system has changed, but quite the contrary, they have continued to open parks with the direct management system with socialist and two-party government deputies in the Galician Union; and the truth is, with the change of governments in some deputies, by the media – because I have to say that no one responsible for any deputies has addressed me directly – news has come that the deputies are committing themselves to representatives of the workers, that it is true that they have always posed a model change, to make this change. I believe that in an exercise of responsibility to the Council of Galicia has summoned the four deputies, and what was said there – and I come to keep here and anywhere, because the responsible ones know it perfectly – is that the Board of Galicia does not oppose the model change, despite – I say again – of having no competence and being, together, what more money brings, whenever two conditions are met: first, that it does not assume a higher cost – when less for the Union of Galicia – and that it guarantees the job stability of the staff of the professionals who are currently developing their work in parks. The fact is that the deputies there, the House of Ourense said that he was happy with the model, just as before were the socialist deputations of Coruña and Lugo – when, by the way, this whole model began being Mr. Besteiro president in the province of Lugo, and I say and I congratulate him that he could start in the province of Lugo–. Well, what the three deputies who opted for model change, who were the other three, said there was that in a month they would bring documentation to believe that these requirements were met. It's been a month, they didn't do anything, they were called from the Galician Union and the second time I'll tell you the outcome of that meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u355	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u356	Thank you, Vice President. For I do indeed feel that this demand for direct management of the comarcas parks that we hear here many times from the opposition groups – of the Socialist Party, of the Nationalist Galego block and even of the AGE Group, of its excision – actually, when they arrived at the provincial deputies of the Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra, that demanding effervescence has disappeared, and finally there does not seem to be that interest that politically expressed here, and since the presidency of those deputies there is no such thing. So, given that there was a second meeting on 2 March, we wanted to know if at that meeting the presidents of socialist MPs, just as Socialists and nationalists do here, were defending themselves to take steps forward in direct management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u357	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, nothing new under the sun at that second meeting on March 2nd. The three MPs governed by the Socialist Party and the Bloc have noticed, it seems, that not before, that there was a different reality in each province, they did not realize at the first meeting, nor in the years when they were part of the consortia, and what they said was that they had to assemble the data and see if that approach they were possible, and I guarantee – I mean again – what we demanded as a sine qua non condition, the economic cost, but, above all, the stability of the workers, that they committed to the union representatives by saying that there was no problem and that the model could be changed from day to day. Well, I have to say that we said that there was no problem, that the economic data, that we have are the ones that have in the Consortium, that they also have them, that I don't know if they're going to look elsewhere, too. And the truth is, the days were over and we haven't received any news from the promoters of management change and we've just called them back, again, from the Galician Union, the new meeting to see if this time they're bringing us the data, and see if you can believe those requirements. If you believe, that I believe they are perfectly understandable, and I insist, above all on the guarantees of professional staff posts, and so I think that many professionals have understood it, you can change the system; if I don't say again that I believe that the public resources we manage all, and above all the guarantee of the stability of the workers, should be above any political promise that when the time comes to fulfill it you see that it cannot be fulfilled, like so many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u359	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Joint, on the forecasts of the Government of Galicia regarding the establishment of the Official College of Occupational Therapy of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u360	You have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u361	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Occupational therapists are socio-health professionals who direct their performance to people who have a permanent or temporary disability that prevents their physical or mental functions. Its objective is to help the patient improve his autonomy in the tasks of daily life, and to assist and support his development towards an independent, satisfying and productive life. I mean, training dependent people or having problems of social integration to participate in the activities of daily life and around them with the highest degree of independence possible. Occupational therapists have extensive training. The Greeks, by the way, enjoy a very good sound throughout Europe, this training is proportional to the skills and knowledge to work with those people or groups of populations who suffer from the impact of a body structure or function due to some change in health and which, therefore, causes them to experience limitations in their social, family and work participation. This discipline is exercised in a wide variety of fields of action: hospitals, health centres, private homes, places of work, schools, juvenile centers, senior homes. And interventions include rehabilitation of neurological deficits, motor function, sensory function and interpersonal relationships, and involve useful activities of importance in the way of life of patients associated with care of themselves, productive work and leisure. There's a lot of cases of people recovered by these and these professionals, which is supposed to happen from receiving a contribution to taxpayers. Given the private or concerted service character of most companies which hold the ownership of care services, especially for older persons, it is impossible to know the total number of professionals who perform this work in Galicia. It is difficult to increase because there is no body that regulates the exercise of this profession. Which also favours intrusion. The Galician Association of Occupational Therapists conducted the application procedures of the Professional College of Occupational Therapists of Galicia in 2014, in order to create a solid structure with its own legal entity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u362	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u363	That's why I ask you the next question, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u364	Formula, formula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u365	...just one question, have you thought about Galician Board meeting the requests for the creation of the Official College of Occupational Therapy presented by the Galician Occupational Association of Occupational Therapy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u366	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. The Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency and Public Administration and Justice will answer you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u367	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed, I fully agree with recognition and it is true that they have a good sound. I also know some professional occupational therapist and therefore it's a health profession that deserves regulation and recognition greater than they have now. To give you an example before you answer your question, and to see that this follows an iter. In 2014 we approved the strategy for early prevention and detection of dependency in Galicia, and we already recognize the essential role that occupational therapists should have. In 2014, we also amended the Social Services Decree to include the services provided by occupational therapists in the home service letter, and in 2015 we approved a protocol for early-care coordination in Galicia, and in it we counted on the occupational therapists of Sergas, so that they also do a fundamental task. So we recognize these professionals and recognize the need to create this school. In January of this year I had held a meeting, after which I had so requested, with the association – I am still an association, as you know – and the claim they put on the table is the creation of the school. We understand it properly, and from that point on, the proceedings for the creation of the school began, and the draft law was drafted. You know there's a legal reservation here to make these kinds of decisions, and the Government of the Union is responsible for making the draft law, and it has been drafted, the public information has been submitted. I have just finished the public information, I have to tell you that if the data you provide to me do not fail me, there was not, moreover, any claim and, therefore, will now begin the remaining procedures necessary to approve it by the Board of Trustees, submit it to this House, and I hope that it will be possible, even in this session, to be able to approve the creation of this school and, therefore, to comply with a decision which I think is fair and which I would probably have to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u368	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u369	Again, Mr. Rueda, thank you for your reply and inform you that I am glad, as well as the representatives who are in the public space – which I think there are two people there – because indeed, as you said, the collection is a guarantee; a guarantee for the whole society and, in particular, for users and patients, because it guarantees – it is worth redundancy – the existence of an institution that is responsible for ordering the professional exercise, from scientific knowledge and from the necessary experience. There are many, it's a career that has a lot of acceptance and increases the number of professionals in this health system, and also, as you've recognized, I believe that there's a lot of intrusion, which goes to the detriment of the service and more of those who receive it. Anyway, I hope your answer will take place in this legislation, which is about to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u370	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u371	Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, one of the demands and complaints brought by the association is the intrusism they suffer as a professional collective, and precisely it will not be the only solution, but undoubtedly it is an important tool, it will be the creation of a school to start controlling the problem of intrusism that they actually suffer. I sincerely hope that we will be able to pass the law. I can assure you that the Government will do its work and bring the bill to the House once approved by the Council of the United States. Now, from there, simply remind him of a background: the creation of the College of Dietists and Nutritionists, apart from an amendment to the whole – who introduced a companion of his own group –. I have to say that a law of four articles had four months of processing, because it had four requests for extension of time, 31 amendments for a text - I insist - of four articles. I hope that this time we are serious, respecting, of course, the right of all Members and Members to do their work. I think that for a text of four articles, which also recognizes something that is fair, we didn't have to see a process like the one we had to see here in the Parliament of the College of Dietists and Nutritionists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u372	Thank you, Vice President. The following questions, in particular 7.3, 7.4 and 7.5, correspond to documents 48,652, 48,659 and 48,661. The debate will take place in an inclusive manner. So we started by asking Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the Supreme Court's decision on the 129 public transport concessions extended by the Galician Union Question by Mr José Manuel Beiras Torrado and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative, on the consequences that will have, in the material conditions of mobility by road of citizenship, the annulment of the extensions of public passenger transport concessions Question by Mr Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the Supreme Court judgment, annulling the extension of the inter-urban public transport concessions in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, on March 14, 2016, very few days ago, we knew this Supreme Court judgement, a judgment that annuls not a law, but a resolution by the General Mobility Directorate of the Galician Council, so the plan to modernise regular public transport concessions, which basically consisted of the extension for 10 years of 129 public transport concessions, was approved. A judgment which I also believe is good for us to clarify here, for some of the issues that Mr. President of Galicia said today, because he has as a consequence the written text, the appeal for cassation submitted by the National Competition Commission in 2012, when he was ruling the People's Party. So there's a law that passed the People's Party, there's a resolution that develops that law that approved the People's Party, and ultimately there's a resource that presents the National Competition Commission when the People's Party was also ruling in Madrid. So there's a direct responsibility, in this case of the Galician Union, that you can't try to circumvent with a series of gross manipulations and that, in any case, the only thing they indicate is the lack of conviction you have in defending what you're doing. In any case, this judgment creates an important problem in our country, of legal insecurity in relation to the provision of regular public transport. Leave 129 concessions in limbo and make it clear that you are an incompetent Government that you are not even able to provide legal certainty with the legislation you approve. I have to tell you that in this sense the sentence gives us the reason to the Nationalist Block of Galicia. When this law was discussed, which is the origin of that resolution, the BNG said that the Government of the People's Party was acting irresponsiblely; that you were misleading the transport sector with a way out that they knew there were legal problems, and even we, that we question the current framework of the European Union, and that from Europe they tell us how to apply and develop public transport in our country, we also told you at that time that the regulation itself had allowed other forms of formula to save the situation. But you acted without heeding what we were saying from the opposition, creating a serious problem right now for the future and crossing arms over these seven years. Because what you can't understand, Counselor, is that today the president says they're going to make a law that's going to solve the problem, because they've been seven years knowing that there was this problem on the table and they haven't done anything at all. We'd like you to assume your responsibility, we believe that the situation is serious enough so they won't come here and tell us that it's Bipartite's fault. It's really an insult to intelligence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Sánchez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u375	Well, we have recently known another of the great successes of the manager Núñez Feijóo and of the management of the People's Government, another of the poisoned inheritances that leave for the future of this burned land. After the court ruling of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia to the political contest of the People's Party, after the ruling of the Supreme Court for the suspension of the wind competition of the Bipartite, the Supreme Court annulled the extension of 144 routes granted for public transport by road, because of the incompatibility of this resolution with Community Regulation 1370/207. The Greek law was before the European Union's restriction, but the resolution of the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council was later headed by Agustín Hernández. On the other hand, today Mr Feijóo, laughing at the creek, blamed the two-party Government for having the Supreme Court cancelling the extensions of public transport concessions by road of a law signed by him, which is to laugh at the rice. He referred to Law 5/2009, signed by Law 5/2009, when the resolution of 26 February 2010 was annulled, so the Plan for Modernization of Regular Public Transport Grants was approved, where the Board extended concessions to bus undertakings unconditionally and for another 10 years to all existing concessions, regardless of their initial period, of the period already passed and any other circumstances. A chapuza we're going to pay now. The Supreme concludes that the Board acted in a manner contrary to law, and therefore annuls the said extensions. I mean, in the last moments of a exhausted government, it's a more mortgage that they leave for the future of our country, together with many other mortgages. It opens up a situation of uncertainty in the sector and we still have no answer as to how this judgment will be handled. The Supreme Court ruling threatens 144 routes and 129 concessions. We ask, what are the measures that the Government of Galicia will take after this new juridical warhead to its Government? What are the results of the meetings held with the sector? And will you take advantage of this new context to use it as an opportunity to restructure in depth the obsolete map of German bus lines? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u376	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Goldar Güimil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u377	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vivenda, very late to everyone today, 12 days ago, exactly, we knew the Supreme Court's ruling that annulled the decision of the Directorate-General for Mobility to extend the permanent public transport concessions of people of general use by road, as has already been clarified this morning in the Question Time to the President. As we express in the explanatory statement on the question that we are now putting forward, Law 5/2009 of 24 November on urgent measures for the modernisation of the public transport sector in Galicia, adopted after consensus with the transport sector in our community, laid down in Article 1 the possibility of automatically extending public transport concessions. These extensions were materialized in February 2010 through the above-mentioned Resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility, which also implemented the Sector Modernisation Plan to which these extensions of the pre-existing concessional titles would be linked. I mean, that possibility of extension had established the law, and not the resolution, which only developed it in the Modernization Plan. The last purpose of this rule, ladies and gentlemen, was to ensure the modernization of a fundamental public service for Galicia and for the Greeks and the Greeks, and so understood our community and twelve more autonomys that did exactly the same thing as us, and also the high court of Justice of Galicia that validated it. And of course, you've already been on an important road and that, still very far ahead, six and a half years after your entry into force, nobody discusses the most remarkable improvement in the quality of the public transport service that you lend today in Galicia, except Mrs. Pontón, of course, is!, and from which you benefit every day tens of thousands of users; most of them when others who today speak here very vehemently, horrifyingly forgot their Government action a few years ago, they haven't done anything at all by the transport sector. Or did the national BNG voicer forget when her group bigoverned Galicia and actively supported the west of that executive? Did you then not know, Mrs Pontón, by 2007, that at the end of 2009 the Community regulation that put so many families in a delicate situation would come into force, and so many workers – no less than 5,000 – and so many companies in the sector in Galicia? As you will easily warn, there are two rhetorical questions, and I will allow myself to answer them. If they knew, more, however, they did nothing. I must nuance, if I may, that if they did something, drafts, as this very morning I had to clarify to them the president of the Galician Union himself, and they also made an amendment approved by the vote in favour of the Galician Nationalist Block of the Budget Law for 2009, in which they curiously extended the concessions for one more year. That is, of course, all the baggage that the two-party government has made to solve what of that was already a very serious problem. In short, ladies and gentlemen, a step forward and it would be settled, the next government would solve it, because you, I insist, either they didn't know or they didn't want to do it. Counsellor, far from this demagogic noise that your lords do, without offering any solution and no help, which is the worst, this parliamentary group will be interested to know what you've done so far...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u378	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u379	...your department since this sentence was known and what steps are being taken to solve it. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u380	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. The Life and Infrastructure Advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u381	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing some of these interventions, I must begin by stressing that the extension of the concessions was a decision of 2009 for the imminent entry into force of a regulation of the year 2007 before what the two-party Government – I have to say – at the entry into force of this regulation of the year 2007 has not been able to find solutions to ensure public service and to give stability to more than 5,000 jobs working in this sector. The extension of the granting of the permanent public transport of road passengers has its origin in Law 5/2009, urgent measures for the modernization of the public transport sector in Galicia; an agreed and agreed law with the sector which was approved in this Parliament on 24 November and published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 30 November 2009. A rule that enabled the legal framework to extend these concessions and also set the foundations of a Modernisation Plan, a Modernisation Plan which should be set in the later resolution of the Directorate-General. The new awards would be due from 2019 onwards. A policy framework was therefore established that brought stability and social improvements to this so important economic sector that it gives employment to more than 5,000 workers. I therefore achieve a double objective: to offer better services and services of greater quality to travellers – a more efficient service – and to improve the competitiveness of the business transport sector as well, thus giving employment stability and job maintenance, something very important because we are talking about the year 2009, in the middle of the economic crisis, in full economic recession. As you know, the transport companies that have acceded to this Modernisation Plan, with the extended concessions, have acquired commitments, have made commitments to improve the quality of the services they are providing to citizens. Commitments such as the modernization of the fleet to reduce seniority; maximum average age, thus more road safety; also reducing the footprint of emissions in the environment; greater comfort also, more accessible vehicles; adapting buses to people with reduced mobility; commitments also of technological improvements – as they know they don't care about improvements in services, but they are better in the services committed –; socio-laborative improvements; training; access to work on equal terms and also employment stability. And this law must not be forgotten that it was key to the implementation of the Metropolitan Transport Plan that we have running in five areas: the Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo and Vigo, benefiting 65 municipalities and more than half a million and a half users, from the Greeks. Because they made commitments by integrating these concessions into the Plan, transporting metropolitan, a measure that has directly impacted users with benefits, reducing tariffs, average savings of 600 euros a year, a success backed by figures, more than 335,000 cards distributed and 42 million trips up to today's subsidized, and without this law it would be impossible. Ladies and gentlemen, the solution that Galicia adopted for the extension of the concessions was through Law 5/2009 and subsequent resolution, in line with twelve autonomous communities which did the same, with different instruments, but the same: to extend the concessions to facilitate the adaptation of these concessions to Community legislation. The truth is, as you said, that in 2010 the National Competition Commission decided to use these approved extensions in both Galicia and Valencia. In the specific case of Galicia was on 30 April 2010, the National Competition Commission presented a prior requirement, the lodging of the litigation-administrative remedy, in which it therefore requested the declaration of the nullity of that resolution, but also of the law. This requirement is not only transferred to the Federations of Travelers Transport Companies, but also to the Galego Road Transport Committee, and with all the legal grounds they have reached and the legal grounds of the Galician Council's lawyers, because with these arguments, the Board decided to reject the requirement for lack of legitimacy, because it was addressing a provision of legal rank, insistent, legal provision, Article 1. But you forget something very important, this decision was endorsed and endorsed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia on May 24, 2012 – which dismisses this appeal – and by the National Competition Commission. As you know, against this judgment, the National Competition Commission appealed to the Supreme Court and the High Court estimated March 14, 2016, as you said. The Supreme's argument is that the extension of the six years of concessions is contrary to Community legislation, which came into force after the law, although it is true, I agree with you, Mr Sánchez, but before the resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility. But the judgment affects Article 1 of the Law, ladies and gentlemen, Article 1(2), in the first subparagraph, by half, extension of 10 years, Article 1 of the Law, paragraph 2, affects the judgment and, as you said, we have 145 transport contracts and would be in force 16, so we are affecting 129 transport concessions. At Junta, of course, we respect the Supreme Court's judgment, but we cannot share it, because it is affecting, as I say, Article 1 of the law. The counsellor doesn't say it, the lawyers tell it, the judicial advisers of the Galician Union. The Supreme Court takes the view that the renewal of concessions to the Community regulation is contradictory and, I insist, a law which was agreed between the Union and the transport undertakings in 2009, within the framework of the Modernisation Plan of the sector, and as it was collected – as it said – in a rule of law adopted prior to the entry into force of the Community Regulation. I insist that you forget that there is a previous judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which endorsed and supported the extensions of concessions and, therefore, the decision of the Galician Council, and which considered, in addition, the High Court of Justice to be correct the procedure followed by the Union. At Galicia, what are we doing, because we are analyzing the scope, analyzing the legal margin to defend the legitimate interests of our autonomy and the interests of the Greeks. In any case, if it is necessary to delay tenders for concessions, I have to say that the current transport services are guaranteed. I want – allow me – to deliver a message of tranquility, because the interurban transport services of course are guaranteed and will continue to work normally. From that point on, our objective is that the judgment is not a trap to continue modernising the sector, to guarantee public services and also to modernise the sector. He had no doubt that, of course, at the Union we will continue to work to defend the legislative autonomy of the Community, of the Union of Galicia, and also the interests of all the neighbours, of all the Greeks. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u382	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Pontón Mondelo has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u383	Counsellor, the truth is that your intervention is disappointing and does not make us absolutely clear what the Board is going to do. First you come here to tell us that it is the fault of the Bipartite. I'd say, well, the two-party government didn't. I am convinced that if I had, you would have annulled that resolution, just as they have done with all the transformative and exchange policy that has been done over those years. And you've had months to solve the problem of extensions of concessions and you haven't done anything. They came last hour with a law, and you knew it was fraudulent. And look if they knew it was fraudulent that, as we told you in the debate, they were praising the Galician Union in the face of possible illegalization of that law, because they said they wouldn't have any kind of heritage responsibility in case those concessions weren't going ahead. You already knew they were making a trap at that time. The grave, Counsellor, is that from 2009 to 2016 seven years have passed. And what has the German Government done in these seven years in transport? Well, basically nothing, Counselor. And there is no modernization of the road transport sector in our country, there are very important problems, and we are very concerned about the setting that is created. Because you will have to agree with me that this sentence leaves in a limbo 129 concessions in our country and a good part of the transport of travellers from Galicia. Or is that not a problem for Galician Union? Aren't you going to take the Supreme Court's sentence? Are they against respect for the jurisdiction of the same? The sentence is firm and you have to accept it and therefore have legal effectiveness. What we believe is that we must question the liberalizing model of the transport sector. Are you ready to defend this before the Spanish State and the European Union? Because we do believe that is a future problem for the country. The transport sector met with us a few days ago before this judgment to express its concern about the lack of a future perspective in a scenario where concessions would expire within a couple of years, and the Galician Union without transport policy and, of course, without worrying about the problems of public transport users in our country, which are many. Because coming here to tell us that public road transport works just as wonderful as it is to ignore the reality of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u384	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u385	We are asking you, Counsellor, to tell us what you're going to do, to assume your political responsibility for putting in place a patch of these features that leaves in limbo 129 concessions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u386	Finish it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u387	...of public transport and, above all, what are they going to do about the future, another chapuza of these characteristics? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u388	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Sánchez García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u389	How lucky they are in this government, who receive as good news the opposing judgments of the Supreme Court! What a lightness to talk about! Counsellor, we haven't come here to debate you and I on legal matters, that's what you discuss with the Supreme Court. If you speak and refer to the law which did seven days before, a week before, to enter into force or European regulation, because I have to say that the Supreme Court or that it says that "the alleged contravention of the provisions of Article 4 of the Community Regulation invoked with regard to the maximum duration of concessions as a result of the extension is due to the resolution that makes it effective and not to the generic provision referred to in the law". That's why you argue with the Supreme Court. The fact is that the Supreme Court has sentenced what it has, and has annulled those 124 concessions, Counsellor. That's a fact. And, man!, the lawyers don't know if they were swinging up when you argued that there was a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. So what? Why do you say that? I don't understand. Does it have any effect that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia had another ruling before when it later spoke to the Supreme Court? Can you tell me what the real effect that there had previously been a ruling by the Galician High Court of Justice? Is there any legal effect? I don't think so, do I? Instead, what you did was not answer. Don't you know what you're going to do with this situation yet? If we hear the first answer, we will conclude that you still don't know what to do. Maybe in the second they give us some clues what they've been planning to do; otherwise we'll be very worried about the lack of a government reaction that seems to be at stake. That's what we're asking you: what are you going to do? Did you talk to the sector? Will you use it to restructure this sector and its routes? Answer, Counselor, that's what you're asked to do. I'm not here to discuss in legal terms, which is a very clear judgment that annuls a resolution and has a quite clear effect on 129 routes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u390	Please finish, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u391	And it's an inheritance more, this is yes, Mr. Voice of the People's Party, this is indeed a kick forward, but a kick forward for those who come after having to manage this, one more of this government that boasted of manager and who is headmaster and incapacitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u392	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Mr. Goldar's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u393	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, thank you for your answer, too. It is more than clear, the judgment of this group, that the department you are directing is taking concrete measures since you've been aware of this sentence, although those who ask you today from other benches don't care at least what you say, because it gives them exactly the same. What do the solutions matter in order to try to wear out a government that solves problems that others have not been able to deal with? Right, Mrs. Pontón? Right, Mr. Sánchez? Those others who speak and speak and don't stop talking so they won't do anything; and propose alternatives, less so. They should teach there next door, right in Santiago's constitutional house, just five minutes' walk away, where they've won their urban transport contract since February, and it's still worth seeing what they're going to do. The tidal tides, Mr. Sánchez, because I still scrupulously comply with the contract law is more likely, Mr. Sánchez – I know you don't like to talk to him about your partners – that urban transport in Santiago has to be extended until, at least, the second quarter of 2017, and even until 2019, with the bidding process. So, and I'm telling you with respect, you're going to give your partners a free lesson from here next door and then come and give it to us, if you like. This parliamentary group would like you, in the legitimate exercise of your role of opposition, to keep on this subject the necessary height of purpose to try to help Galicia resolve this situation. They talk, they talk, they talk... They don't even let you talk. [[Murmurs.]] If they let me finish, I appreciate it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not all right, ladies and gentlemen, it's not all worth it when it comes to a problem that bothers many Greek families who live directly in this sector and who expect from all of us, including you, Mr. Sánchez, that we act with responsibility, that for that they have lent us their trust, for that very reason.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u394	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u395	I'm done, President. Well, as you said in your speech, Counsellor, that in any case the continuity of the public transport service in Galicia is guaranteed, whatever the situation comes from the execution of the sentence, although some thought this would be the apocalypse and have spent the last few days generating unfounded alarmism and leading nowhere. Finally, Counsellor, we would like to thank you very much for explaining to this House what steps are going to be taken, in consensus with the sector, in the coming weeks to provide a solution to this issue and to continue with improvement and modernization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u396	Thank you, Mrs. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u397	...of public transport in Galicia. Nothing more, thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u398	Thank you. Replica. You have the word of counsel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u399	Thank you, President. When the German Government made that decision of the Emergency Measures Act in 2009, it did so because it was the only option to guarantee public transport, because the Bipartisan Government, I have to say, did not do anything, I would say, to give stability to public transport concessions, to interurban public transport, and to the needs of citizens. Mrs. Pontón, you and your government partners have given up this opportunity to solve the problems of extensions and have left the sector, of course, in a very difficult situation. That's the inheritance, and the current government of the Union had to deal with a middle-level law. They were four years old. They had four years to leave the services ready to see what Community rules would be like, they were four years old. And we had to fix it in six months. That's what we said. They were four years old.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u400	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u401	We had to fix it in six months. And if we didn't get to act with responsibility and with urgency, what would happen? The concessions would decline but in cascade one behind the other. Because they were four years old, they didn't adapt Community legislation, and we had to solve it in six months. What would have happened – I wonder – if we hadn't done this urgent action? Four years without long-distance transport, four years without fleet renewal, four years without betting on the most accessible buses, four years without metropolitan transport, and the worst, 5,000 jobs at risk. That's the legacy that we were left and that we had to fix in six months urgently. [[Applause]] And we've been working on this in the middle of the year, as I say, to defend the interests of the Greeks, to guarantee users a quality service, a public transport service, giving stability to the sector and 5,000 jobs, which generate wealth and thousands of jobs. Because the transport sector is a key sector. Those were the reasons. I would like you to explain to me why you did not see it as urgent, both by the sector and by these workers, why it was not urgent to adapt the concessions to Community legislation. And the law we're talking about is a law of urgent action dialogue, participated and consensused by the sector, and passed by this House in 2009, a law that established the legal framework for extensions and also that these concessions adhere to a modernization plan, acquiring commitments, as I said in my first intervention: renewal of the fleet, adaptation of the fleet to people with reduced mobility and introduction of technological improvements. It's a law that has met a double objective too: to improve competitiveness and also to provide more efficient services. Now the Supreme Court interprets that this renewal is contrary to the Community regulation, but, of course, by contradicting it, it was not important for the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in 2012 to endorse that extension, which said it was in accord with the right. We have a new situation, we have a new situation as a result of the Supreme Court judgment, there is a new situation, of course. We're analyzing the scope of the sentence, the legal margin to defend the legislative autonomy, and also the interests of the neighbours and the provision of that service. Our goal is that the sentence does not affect the sector's modernization project, which is also important. We have met with the Galego Road Transport Committee to assess the impact and, most importantly, to ensure the provision of public service. In the German Government, ladies and gentlemen, we reflect, analyze, plan and act, of course we do. We will process a law, a law that will ensure the orderly planning of interurban public transport, and also ensure the public service. This very afternoon, the Secretary General of the Council and the Director General of Mobility are holding a new meeting with the sector, also to inform you of this measure. We will continue, of course, also with the new design of the transport service map and, as I say, we work, plan, make decisions and act. And the most important thing, a message I want to convey, is that the interurban transport service is guaranteed, it will continue to be rendered with total normality. The Greeks who use the urban or urban bus to travel will continue to have the same services and the same benefits, because they will also count and will continue to count on metropolitan transport, important savings in travel, on the ticket, free transfers, important bonuses, bonuses to numerous families, will continue to be maintained. The normal operation of public transport is fully guaranteed. And further, we'll go further, of course, by improving public transport with the implementation of the penetration plans we're already working on in the areas of Vigo, La Coruña, Ourense and Pontevedra, optimizing routes and eliminating transport needs. I set simple examples for you to see the repercussions and benefits. A neighbor of Cambre will be able to reach the Cantons, in the Coruña, without having to make a transhipment at the bus station, or without having to walk from the bus station to the Cantons. Also a neighbor of Mos will be able to reach Spain square in Vigo directly, instead of staying at the bus station. We'll put this on the move, and we're working. Therefore, guarantee and improve the service, and continue to obtain benefits. We'll also introduce management forms as will be transport to demand, because rural people also care about us. And it will also bring rural benefits, we have €2.5 million guaranteed to improve rural service with demand transport. I believe that the improvements we can bring to our neighbours are important, both in the areas of big cities and in rural areas. At the juntta we will continue to work to achieve the best functioning of the public transport service, which is more efficient and more useful; we will continue to move forward with modernization. I think this law, I insist, will guarantee an orderly transport, the planning of an orderly transport. And ensuring public service will be important, it will bring well-being. And we will continue to make decisions and we will continue to work this way for the future. In any case, I add two more things, Mrs. Pontón. His group, the government in coalition with the PSOE, ruled between 2005 and 2009. And we all know that communication in those two government legs wasn't too fluid, but I think we can't forget that the Bipartite qualified the year 2008 as the year of public transport, and its government partners didn't do anything; and, of course, planning none. I, Mr. Sanchez, think it's important to look at the rest too. The problem with Santiago's urban bus is a big problem; therefore, I would also worry about it, and that it will be solved. Your government partners, these Tide Powers, I don't think they're reporting or planning or acting or offering solutions to citizens. But of course we bring a law to order, ensure the management of public transport planning and guarantee the public service. We'll keep the services, the service is guaranteed, and the benefits are guaranteed as well. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u402	Thank you, Counselor. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the opinion of the Junta of Galicia regarding the fulfilment of the expectations of the conversion of the City of Culture as reference to the internationalization of the culture of Galicia and center of internal reference
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u403	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u404	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, we asked you today about the balance of the Galician Union in relation to the City of Culture. It's been five years since its inauguration and therefore we believe it's a space of time long enough to see if the expectations that the president of the Union himself had set in relation to this City of Culture have been met. Mr. Feijóo said at his inauguration that this was going to be a work at the time of the New York MOMA, the Sidney opera or the Bilbao Guggenheim, the new mandatory stop of the 21st century cultural itineraries. And he also told us that their international relevance will be a revolutionary in these times that need more than ever new illusions, and that it will have an internal impact to strengthen our collective self-esteem. The truth is that reality is leaving very badly the immodesty of Mr. Feijóo. Yesterday you presented, accompanied by the Director General of Culture, if I am not mistaken, a memory of the Council, a memory that gave some data that we would like you to comment on today. It says that in 2015 there were 95,479 visitors to the City of Culture, this means an important fall in relation to the figures that have made the Council public in the past. In 2013, we were told by 138,400 visitors; and in 2012, 332,847. That is to say, there is a very significant reduction according to the data that has made Galician Union public; 95,479 visitors to the City of Culture is a figure that certainly does not put us at the height of Guggenheim or Sidney's opera. It's a figure that doesn't even match us with some of the major museums in the Spanish state, such as the Queen Sofia or the Prado Museum, which had 3.1 and 2.6 million visitors respectively. But if we take into account the German panorama, this figure leaves very little room for this cultural equipment in relation to others in the country, which did not have so much investment or absorb so many public resources. Look, the scientific museums in the Coruña had more than 400,000 visitors last year. Only the Aquarium of Coruña doubles the number of visitors to the City of Culture, and I don't think it absorbs such a relevant expense as this. So what we see is that the City of Culture continues to constitute a mortgage for our country, it is, of course, an oda or monument to the wasteland and the biggest chauffeur we've seen in recent times. Because even in these days we also see with concern how the City of Culture literally falls apart. And we don't know if they're going to have property liability on companies due to a deficiency of these characteristics. I also have to tell you that it doesn't seem right what you're doing right now. Many public resources are still being squandered in works we don't know what the interest is: more than 250,000 euros in two children's parks. They announced in 2012 that they would reduce the cost of the City of Culture to half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u405	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u406	And what we see is that, ever since you got to Galician Council, what you did was to increase by 30% the expenditures and resources of the City of Culture. In any case, Counsellor, do you think it is a good investment for Galicia to squander so many public resources in the City of Culture?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u407	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u408	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. You started your intervention by referring from a text by the president of the Galician Union, and to me, if I may, I will also read a statement made by a high, high-ranking, German Nationalist Block -- which I think is no longer that -- by now. And he also said literally, referring to and defending the City of Culture: "It will be a fundamental instrument of the Italian self-government to strengthen, normalize and give future to the Greek culture, and also a means to amplify the policies of support which the Government of Greece leads to artistic creation and towards our cultural industries." Well, we're this statement, Your Honor, because we almost subscribed to it. We really have a coherent view of the City of Culture. I see that the Galego Nationalist Block because "one", we don't know if you're ever in favour, if you've been with the City of Culture, or if you're still standing, or if the Galician Nationalist Block actually trusts and believes in this cultural project, or if you've only been trusting for a while in this cultural project and now it's done. But well, in any case, you were talking about economic resources. And I'll tell you it's a pity, Mrs. Pontón, that we don't have the economic resources that you had. You noticed that in 2009 your government, your advisor, had 41 million euros, 41 million euros transferred the Galician Union to the City of Culture Foundation. And today we only have 9 million. Too bad we didn't have their resources, because we would probably do it much better. And there's also a question that surprises me when he talks about chapuza, and when he talks about action taken by this Council to defend the integrity of the City of Culture, and somehow to be responsible for the action there. Because you have done that you are acting in large part on works that have been certified by governments of the Nationalist Block Galego, with which I would ask you to be very careful. I would ask you to be careful and tell you that, since prudence, we are optimistic about the City of Culture. Obviously we've been working for a few years, this opened in 2011. And it's not that we see the glass half full, but if we see that it's gradually filling up. You don't even see the glass, you don't even see the glass. And we see that there's a positive evolution, and we see that there are actions that are filling the City of Culture with content. You speak of the international character. I would tell you that there are two events that I understand that you should support, for example, Womex 2016, that there has already been a previous experience. This will be filled with international cultural activity in the City of Culture. I think you should be in favour of this performance. Or I should also be in favour of Spin 2016, which is somehow going to concentrate the entrepreneurial effort of the Latin American university in the City of Culture. I think it's events, along with many others, that are gradually filling the City of Culture with little by little. Without going further, this year we had two exhibitions: José Suárez's exhibition, which had 16,000 visitors and ended recently, and he had very good criticism from all over the world, had a very significant media impact. Or we also had – and finally, Madam President – very recently the opening of a new exhibition – that I invite you to visit her – which has a very positive impact. In just over three weeks he had more than 5,000 visits, an event that also through social networks, with a meeting of bloggers, had more than 1 million impacts. I would invite her to go through the City of Culture, and, no doubt, that vision so negative that she has because she could surely change. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u409	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u410	Counselor, you have a way of valuing the things that you really have to explain to us what your barriers are. We understand that one of the issues that you said was going to assume the City of Culture was a revolutionary, because it was going to internationalize the Greek culture. Can you tell me a single act that internationalized Greek culture? Because Womex is an activity that is not invented in the City of Culture, and that could also happen in any space. So that has nothing to do with internationalizing the City of Culture, but taking a fair that was already running and paying for public resources to be done in our country. And that's not internationalizing Greek culture. And secondly, we just gave you some figures from the City of Culture in relation to the number of visitors that is ridiculous. Counsellor, I'm going to repeat it, and I hope you'll balance me with considering that the City of Culture is dimensioning or if it's a bluff that is more and more a ghost city. Year 2012, figures from Galicia: 332,847 visitors; year 2013, 138,400; year 2015, 95,479 visitors. That's the number you just gave us, a figure that, as I told you, is much lower than the visits to the Aquarium de la Coruña. Of course, we understand, Counselor, that there is an absolute failure, that what makes no sense is that thousands of public resources continue to be squandered when there is no cultural project. And they're doing a management that stands out for nothing, Counselor, because there's no cultural project. It seems to us that this year, with the needs of Galician culture, you've decided to increase by 30% the funds for the City of Culture, which we're paying every day, for having opened these buildings, almost 25,000 euros a day, a figure that is obscene if we consider what the social reality is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u411	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u412	...and what is the reality of this country's culture. What we ask you to do is assume failure, and make decisions, but do not continue to bury thousands of euros in that City of Culture that ultimately have no positive impact on the country at all. Recognizing the error would be a step and of course also acknowledging that there is a need to reorient what is going on in those buildings. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Replica. The counselor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u414	Mrs. Pontón, I think I should update your speech, I should honestly update your speech because, listening to you, I think it's still anchored on those topics that really don't go anywhere. I would invite you without any doubt to visit the City of Culture, and to visit it with open eyes, not to visit it with those understandings and with that partisan or partisan veil that does not let you see anything at all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'll tell you why. Look, there's work in the field of enterprise in new technologies, about 400 people every day. There are, in the area of entrepreneurship, three spaces that are promoting new businesses, new businesses, in the field of entrepreneurship. It's progressing, and I believe that at a good pace and with much sense, in a project of humanization and integration of the City of Culture, not in the environment, but in the whole of Galicia. I think you're thinking, of course, that's the perception you say in the middle of the mountain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you understand that this is the middle of the mountain, because from there, Mrs. Pontón, very little... I believe and insist that I should change your perception and should see the City of Culture with much wider mirrors than you do. [[Applause]] But, of course, if you understand that Womex is a second-level event, because we have little to talk about. If you understand that Womex does not serve as a bridge to enhance our culture and our root culture, I can hardly tell you, Mrs. Pontón. If you understand that an event like Spin, where there will be more than a hundred universities in Latin America in one of the second functions of the City of Culture, which is the entrepreneurship, then what do you want me to tell you, Mrs. Pontón? If you're not seeing the potential that step by step is acquiring the City of Culture in all its activities, very little can I tell you. I really feel this change of constant perception that exists on the part of the Block in this case. And I'm going back to what I said at first. There was a moment when you were the palladins, the defenders, of the City of Culture; they were defending her coat and sword. Now they're making a constant attack, despising the City of Culture. That, in some ways, speaks of a very small vision of politics, and I really think it hurts them a lot, more harm to you than to the City of Culture itself. In any case – and I say the same again –, starting with prudence, I think the City of Culture is gradually building up. More and more citizen life, more and more cultural life, more and more cultural activities, and more and more Greek culture is being represented in the City of Culture. I think they should start giving up that somewhat overdue speech that doesn't do you any good. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u415	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to recover the re-educational character of the Public Center Santo Anxo, of Rabade
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u416	To put the question, Mr. González Santín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u417	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. The Centro de Santo Anxo, in Rabade, became in 2006 a center where only minors were cared for, thus failing to attend to the age of 18, and thus increasing their safety. So you can see, for example, in a press release at that time, on February 14, 2006. No doubt this was, from my point of view, good news for the integration of the children protected by the Galician Union. But in recent years, press headlines have not been so kind to this center. I don't know if you know the subject -- I wasn't a counselor -- but about a couple of years ago, a work conflict started with the security guards of the Holy Angel. This conflict originated when it changed the security company contest that the board had and when the new company decided unilaterally to terminate workers' contracts rather than subrogate them, and therefore not to stay with these workers. We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, brought this case here to Parliament, and this conflict was finally solved. But from now on the problems have grown in this center. In the year 2014 – I have a press release here too – – "In October 2014" – there is several news of this, I pick up one – "find five minors after a spectacular escape at the Centro Santo Anxo, de Rábade." "Until now," said the article, "there had not been such a large leak in this center." I know that there are leaks in these centers, but the rare, the peculiar, is the periodicity with which they are being produced lately. By setting an example and not going too far, even today there were two escaped, I suppose you too will know. And if we're going to a few months ago, we hear the news that they stop -- I also have a press headline here -- the director of the Holy Angel of Rabbade following an investigation. The Galician Council, your advisor, argues as a reason the loss of confidence in a director who had been in the center for 36 years. There is a complaint filed by several private security guards of the centre against an official who exercises the night watch of the centre. The reality is that they have to go and declare themselves by the headquarters of the Civil Guard educators, security guards and some minors. We understand that this is not a normal procedure in a center of these characteristics, as I say, a re-educational center. In addition, if we continue to investigate, we see that in recent times he had to enter the Civil Guard with tear gas in the center, there are locks sealed with silicone and there are on the social networks – every time more frequently – images of Thursday in the center, of those that appear photos and videos on social networks. As you know, you can't afford to enter these Thursdays with this kind of device in the center. In short, they're giving themselves a series of problems in this center, in Rabade, which, from our point of view, do not help the re-education of the Thursdays that are there. The question we ask you is very simple: what does the Council intend to do to change this situation and make it a real re-educational center?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u418	Thank you, Mr. Santín. Mr. Social Policy Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u419	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank you for your group's question and interest in the centre of Santo Anxo de Rabade, a concern that I would like to convey to you that it is shared by the Government of Galicia. In this sense, in recent months there have been frequent meetings with the staff of the centres and visits have been made to them to first-hand know the situation of this centre and other centres and their functioning. As you know, it is up to the Galician Council, through the Council of Social Policy, to assume custody of minors who are in a state of unemployment. The reception is the mode of exercise of the guard as a protective measure consistent with the accommodation and care of a minor in a center. Residential accommodation involves the income of these minors in the centre. The Centro de Menores Santo Anxo da Garda, in Rabade, enters the first category, the attention to minors with problems of conduct, as no judicial measures are carried out in it. So, indeed, as you report, in recent months and recent years there have been inappropriate conduct in an environment of adequate coexistence, which, as I say, concerns the Council of Galicia, as it cannot be otherwise. That's why, in response to your question, different decisions have been made in recent months to prevent such conduct from occurring within a short period of time, we hope that as soon as possible; measures that will be referred in three directions. The first one, increasing the number of staff, the number of educators, which this public centre has; specifically 3 new educators in nighttime, to prevent what happened on other occasions, which exclusively under-contracted security personnel were kept at the center in the nighttime. In a second place, a new security recruitment, for the conflict that you raised in your question and that allows a reasonable coexistence to be restored to an educational centre, which, in fact, presents sometimes difficult conduct but conducts that we have to be able to overcome, because that is precisely the purpose of juvenile centres like this. And a third measure we're already developing is a new educational project for the center. Believed, therefore, what you express in these questions, since there have been some sort of production in the center that are not desirable in a center of these characteristics. So – I say – let's hope that a new educational project, a reinforcement of the staff of that centre, with three more people, and the new security recruitment will allow us in the short and medium term to keep these types of conduct from producing in a centre that you have to watch – as you say – by re-education of the minors who are in it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u420	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Santín has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u421	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank you for your answer and also for your sincerity. It is not normal for the Galician Union to recognise that there is a problem in a center, in a center, in addition to these characteristics; a centre that, as you know, has 20 children protected – as you well say – from destructed homes and which therefore need that guardianship, which is – as you say – from Galician Union. From our group we have seen denouncing the management of some of these Junta centers for some time now, and especially the sheltered centers, which must be places of reeducation so that these children can return to normal life and achieve their full social inclusion. We have been reporting problems in these centers to those I see that you here are trying to answer some of them; the first, the shortage of staff. Of course, we're glad to know that three new people are going to be in this center, but we believe that it's not the only thing you're going to have to do. We also believe that there is a need for increased material resources – very few in these centres – and above all that is budgeted for these centres with more economic capacity. And there's also something you haven't referred to, but from which I'd like you to take note, and at least look at it, which is the rare specialization, from our point of view, of the staff that occupies the squares and serves the children. I've been looking at the latest supply of posts, I don't know if they were definitive or provisional, but I can tell you that the characteristics of the people who covered those squares were not the right ones. As I told you, I'm glad you agree with me that what's going on in the center of Saint Angel in recent years is not normal. They're giving a series of circumstances which, of course, I think deserve the attention of their counsellor. I would also like to make a commitment here too, and the commitment I would like to make here is the following: that you will deal with the labour conflicts within the Holy Angel school trying to resolve as soon as possible, because I am sure that this, precisely, is the source of all the problems that we have in that center. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u422	Thank you, Mr. Santín. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u423	Yes, thank you very much. The centre of Santo Anxo has a capacity of 32 minors, which can be housed in it. Within this profile, users are usually 14 or more years old and younger. The template prior to the incorporation of three new educators, with the titration established in the employment relationship, was 34; we went from 34 to 37. Of the 18 educators who currently have the centre, all of them full-time, 12 have been in it for many years; therefore, what we have to assume from the Council is that this staff member who has been developing this performance as an educator for years now has done so with the professionalism and the title necessary for the development of this performance. The average occupation of the center was 26.8 in 2015; currently in center 25 minors; and the number of staff ratios we have in center with the new incorporations – I insist – is in less than 37. So we're above the ratio that's established in the centers of this type. But, indeed – as you point out – sometimes the working climates do not facilitate development in the conditions that we want, especially the minors who are in the center. So what I can tell you is that we did what we did was act, not look elsewhere: act by hiring more personnel, act by changing the security company and act by changing the educational project of the center. And we're having very detailed follow-up meetings to, precisely, save situations like security bodies interventions that happen. A call exclusively to 061, to health services, implies, by acting protocols, to call state forces and security bodies. I therefore believe that we must put it in the right direction. It is not that it is a matter of public order that the entry of state forces and security bodies into the center, which could also happen, but does not always respond to that performance. I'm telling you, we've taken these three measures since the end of last year. What we want is for these measures to have effects – as I said – in the short and medium term. And, of course, they can count on all the information through the Council, through the territorial head, to participate in the follow-up of the actions being carried out in this center for the benefit of the minors who are in the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u424	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Carme Acuña do Campo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the actions being carried out by the Government of Galicia to prevent the work inequality of women in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u425	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u426	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, as you know for sure, on February 22, we commemorate the European Day for Pay Equality one more year, and we had to report another year that the wage gap is still growing. It's already round 24%. In addition, this inequality of wages disappears if we talk about pensions, because in pensions it reaches up to 39%. Moreover, this problem, this situation, in Galicia, is even worse, because here – as you know well – the wages are lower, so the economic capacity of the Greek women is of the lowest in Spain. But there is a collective, adviser, who suffers especially from labour discrimination. That collective is that of rural women. That's why this year the Socialist Party in Galicia devoted last February 22 to the Greek rural women, who suffer not the same inequality that we all suffer, but total invisibility, not existence, Counsellor. And as an example worth more than a thousand words, I'm going to use it precisely to you, Counselor of the Rural Environment, as an example. Because here in this hemicycle we all have very clear that you are the daughter of a captive, but we don't know if you are the daughter of a captive. Clara shows what happens to women in rural areas, where 67% of married women working in family farms are not quota, and those who are exploited are not the means of production; where women who work more than 30 hours a week on farms are not even discharged into Social Security. I don't know if you know, Counselor, that only 4 out of 10 are insured, or, in other words, 6 out of 10 women who work in rural areas don't make sure. And all this, Counsellor, despite having a legal framework made and appropriate to avoid this situation, Law 35/2011 of shared ownership of agricultural holdings, of the last socialist government in the state. The law that, despite unanimous approval, the PP government has stopped and has not developed either in the state or Galicia. It was neither developed legally nor provided with the necessary training for the civil servant in order to be able to process, advise and properly inform stakeholders. And the result is there. I'm afraid, Counsellor, that all this is evidenced is the absolute disinterest of the People's Party for Equality and none of the rural women in government policies Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u427	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u428	And all of this is causing a reversal of our rights that will cost years to correct. So, worried about this situation, we asked you today what you're doing to break up with wage inequality, work inequality for women in rural Galician. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u429	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. To answer, you have the word of the rural councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u430	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. One of the goals that we mark ourselves as government is to encourage the entrepreneurship of rural women, as a strategic element for economic growth and for the full development of our environment, since it undoubtedly makes women a future in society. The importance of the role of women in rural areas, overcoming this gender gap in employment and entrepreneurship, reconciling, promoting and incorporating women into rural bodies and decision-making and participation positions, and supporting rural associations, are the key elements of social, economic and cultural dynamization that promote this Government. Finally, the potential of women as an active agent in rural areas is immense. It is essential to enhance their access, of course, to equal opportunities resources, to encourage their participation in decision-making and to create work alternatives to achieve a more sustainable and equitable way of life. The incorporation of women into the German labour market was one of the main objectives of the Government of the Union of Galicia over these years. All the actions carried out since the administration, together with the high degree of involvement of the various social agents, companies, especially women themselves, are producing their results. This reflects the latest data provided by the labour force survey, the EPA, corresponding to the fourth quarter of 2015, which shows an acceleration in the incorporation of women into the labour market in Galicia. In the last twelve months 14,500 Greek women have abandoned unemployment, and female occupation has increased to 13,400 women. In addition, the latest results of the annual salary structure survey reflect that Galicia was the second community where women's wages increased by 3.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, these data ultimately reflect the reactivation of women's employment; they certainly show an improvement in the employment situation in the Italian labour market, which must, of course, intensify over the next few years. That's why the Galician Union has just launched Agenda 20 for Employment, which includes, among others, a specific plan, the Equal Employment Plan, and incorporates measures to boost employment and promote women's recruitment. In addition, we count on the Galego das Mullers Council, which was set up on 5 March 2014, as a peer-review, participation and counselling body in equality policy matters. Through vowels are represented all the councils of the Union, associations and federations of women, with 15 representatives who were elected in an open, public and democratic process. There are also business organizations with three vowels, a vowel representing each of the trade union organizations present at the General Negotiation Bureau, as well as a representation of the Fegamp. I want to tell you that last morning is presented with the first study, and I am sure that the conclusions reached will be of great importance to the future of women in rural areas and, therefore, to the rural environment itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u431	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Acuña has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u432	Thank you, President. Counselor, we are very clear that women are very important, what we ask ourselves is for which we are worth it. Look, I wasn't talking to you about the woman in general, I was talking to you about a very specific woman, about the invisible woman, about what doesn't exist, about the rural woman. And you haven't given it completely in your answer, too, not only in your policies, but even in your response. I don't know if you know what's going on with the rural women, but, if you don't know, I'll tell you. What is happening is that on June 25, 2015, when they were registered throughout Spain in the register of shared ownership 136 holdings, in Galicia, Counsellor, they were only 13, despite being the autonomous community with the highest number of agricultural holdings. What's happening is that, despite that, neither you nor Mr. Feijóo have launched any kind of help or incentive to encourage such access to shared ownership. What is happening is that, in the main calls for aid for agricultural holdings convened this year, shared ownership is not considered as a criterion for the valuation of applications. What is happening is that in the 2015 CAP if the question of whether or not the holding was shared ownership was included, but then no response was considered to receive the aid. And what's going on, Counsellor, and you should know and have it very clearly, is that the aid to the membership of Social Security aimed at incorporating holders or contributors went from 140,000 euros in 2012 to 0 euros in 2015. That's why, Counselor, there's the rural woman, and I'm asking you, are you going to do something to end the invisibility of the women in the Italian countryside, which I remind you is 80% of our territory? After listening to her, I'm sure you don't, but you have to make it very clear that you're the daughter of a gangster doesn't help anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u433	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the reply, you have the word of the Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u434	Thank you very much, President. I don't know if it helps or doesn't help, it's really giving me a special sensitivity, especially with rural women, and with my mother as well, I'd miss more. My mother was a co-titler even though she was already a certain age, and she was forced to be a co-titler, to have her Social Security, even though it was very hard for her to have her daughter at the university and at the same time to be able to pay two insurances at home. He finally got it, with a lot of work and effort, just like the rest of the women who live in rural areas. Look, I don't think I'm nobody, but I wouldn't ever have any rural women. I am one of them and live in their midst. But after taking a general view of what women are, I'll focus on what policies the Rural Council develops, and I'll tell you that within the Leader programme, the business initiatives presented by women have a higher score. We'll see that they are used to evaluate projects that are going to be supported, making them easier access to aid and that they are reduced to the extent possible the difference of opportunities between men and women in rural areas. More than 25% of the projects presented at the end of Leader 2007-2013 were either presented by women or women were contributors to that project, so the role of women in this field of rural development was more than positive. But we want the 2014-2020 programme to be more effective and to further improve the results of the previous one, by favoring a greater realization of aid in projects that help to vertebrate rural areas and facilitate equality policies. As for women holding agricultural holdings, and with data coming from the crossing of the agricultural farm table, recently loaded by the General Agricultural Production Register 2016, with the title of the farms registered in the Reaga, the data are as follows, and you want to give them knowledge. Look, ladies and gentlemen, of the 66,034 holdings registered in Galicia, and discounting the 3,494 holdings on which the holders are not registered individually, on 31.001 holdings the title corresponds to women, and 31,539 men, i.e. 46.95 % of the Greek holdings hold women and 47.76 % to men. With which, believe me, if anyone doesn't know how the Italian countryside is and the role that the woman plays in the Italian countryside, it will be you, but not me. M M M M M M 3chess-rank Do not start again End Do not start again M M M M is ê is ê Ł IC ì IC B Error loading calendar: %1 Please fix or delete the file. @info B ̈ Open... To B " Open... g i 7chess-rank 9chess-rank h i 8chess-rank 9chess-rank , an integrated cooperative uniquely by women who tried to diversify, avoid seasonality with high demand products, and those women are the ones who will support the Rural Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-30-DSPG147.u435	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up.
