ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the session. Thank you. Good morning. We start the session with the first item on the agenda, which corresponds to legislative texts. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u2	I am telling all of you that there is a change in the agenda, and in particular, it is that the legislative text in point 1.3 will be discussed first, and then we will resume the normal order. We therefore begin with the debate on point 1.3. Consideration of the G.P. Bill Proposal People in Galicia, amending Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u3	Quiet, please. Silence, because we are going to debate this text and it is convenient for us to be silent. The People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia speaks for the presentation of the bill, through her Mrs. Marta Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The proposed law presented today by the People's Parliamentary Group is intended to amend the Galician Social Services Act, to introduce new management models; new management models such as the social concert, as a differentiated system of the general concert modality that regulates public sector procurement regulations and framework agreements with social entities for the management of services; to strengthen the role of social initiative entities and to guarantee new rights to users of social services. With this reform, what we are looking for is to solve problems that the current system cannot answer. In addition, for the first time, a series of rights to users, rights such as the right to free choice, right to the root of the person's social environment, continuity in attention and the right to personal and integral attention. The current law, Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services in Galicia, structures and regulates as public services Galicia's social services for the construction of the Greek welfare system. Article 29 regulates the different forms of provision of social services in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u5	Quiet, please. There's a lot of noise. Quiet, please, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u6	... by establishing that social services will be provided by public administrations directly or indirectly, through the various types of procurement of public service management established in the regulations governing public sector contracts. The limitations of current legislation are known to all Members and Members. We have discussed these limitations for a long time in this Parliament: the referral of social services to the Public Sector Contracts Act in order to regulate the collaboration of the private initiative in the provision of social services. Now there are other alternatives that we consider fairer, more just for the social reality of non-profit social entities and also for users. Alternatives that have already collected the laws of social services from other autonomous communities, following trends dictated by Europe. Because European Union Directive 2014/24 on public procurement established that Member States and public authorities have freedom to organise social services, so that public procurement is not necessary where the said system ensures sufficient publicity and complies with the principles of transparency and non-discrimination. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the possibility for public administrations to adopt organisational formulas for the management of public services in the field of social services other than those contained in contractual legislation is opened. Pending the transfer by the State to Spanish law of the European directives of the year 2014 on public procurement, which must be translated into a new public sector contract law, it is necessary to establish the social concert by amending the Law on Social Services in Galicia. The Basque Country, Balearics, Asturias or Murcia are autonomous communities that have already legally established the social concert as a new modality for the improvement of the management of social services of proximity by non-profit entities of social action. The social concert provided for in this bill is set as a differentiated contractual modality, given the general concert collected in the general public sector contract standard. The establishment of social concerts will meet the principles of integral personalized attention, the roots of the person in the environment of social care and the free choice of the user. Public administrations shall give priority to non-profit entities where free competition and the principles of equal treatment, non-discrimination and transparency are ensured. Social concerts will also have to be established on a multi-year basis in order to ensure stability in their supply, and they can be renewed. Social concerts shall lay down formulas guaranteeing continuity in the provision of social services by the entities providing them. In addition, the transitional provision provides that the concerts may establish formulas for ensuring the maintenance of social services by the entities already providing them, a question which favours the continuity of the collectives working in this sector with credible experience. With regard to framework agreements, in addition to social concerts, the contracting bodies of the self-employed public sector may sign framework agreements with social entities for the provision of certain social services for a specific period of time. The framework agreement is a contractual figure already provided for in the public sector contract rules, and in particular the public sector will promote the conclusion of the framework agreements with a view to giving priority to the free choice of the person to whom the service is intended. During the duration of the agreement, the recruitment of social services which are part of the agreement can only be contracted with entities which are part of the agreement. It is the potential users of these services who, with their choice, determine with whom the Administration should contract these squares, always within the framework of the centres managed by the participating entities, and the changes of center determined by the will of the users will be used to change the number of squares contracted with each entity annually, matching the extension of the contract. Last September 15, 2015, the Socialists' Parliamentary Group also presented a bill to amend the Galician Social Services Act. At that time, the People's Parliamentary Group considered that amending such an important law as the Social Services Act in Galicia needed to open a process of dialogue with the sector, and the People's Group undertook to draft a new proposal with maximum legal guarantees after sitting with the entities. And so we did, the amendment of this law as the Social Services Act; it needed to open a process of dialogue with the sector, a framework that is consistent with entities with all guarantees, and we sit with the representatives of CERMI and the result of these contributions made by the representative entities of CERMI-Galicia is born this document, this proposed law that we present today. CERMI has long urged the autonomous communities to regulate the social concert as a new form of public procurement, and we believe that it is time for all parliamentary groups to sit down and try to reach an agreement. Of course, this is an open document that needs to be agreed with all and each of the parliamentary groups, because it has to go forward with the greatest possible support and, of course, that is our proposal: an open document, a document negotiated with CERMI, a document drawn up with the contributions they have made from CERMI and, of course, a document that will be opened to the proposals of all and each of the parliamentary groups. Of course, that is what we hope for, we hope that the parliamentary groups will accept this proposal and, of course, that we will sit down and be able to draw up a document to reform the Social Services Act, which will be agreed by all parliamentary groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u8	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I want to start by pointing out that today's opposition calls for the opening of borders for refugees, and that's also solidarity and that's also protection for human rights, and that's also democracy. And today we are talking precisely about assistance to people who need the solidarity of society as a whole. For solidarity must be international and not this inhumane behavior, and then sell that we are because people don't suffer and because of social equality. With regard to this draft social services law, we have to say that it seems to us little and that, of course, it is not consistent with what the Government has done both in the Autonomous Community and in the State so far. Almost 11 million euros less has spent the state, autonomous and municipal administration on social services in the past state legislation, which means 13% of the total, according to the State Association of CEOs of Social Services. The greatest declines in rights, economics and coverage correspond to this order to Galicia, Murcia and Aragon. I mean, we're the community that cut most into social services. The drastic reduction in social expenditure, added to the ageing of the population, to the modification of family structures, to the increase in the social and family role of women, to the emigration of young people and to other social factors, urgent intervention and design devices, and functional, material and organizational structures that contribute to equal access and use of social services. The dependency situations of many people and the complexity of their treatment for families require the Administration to respond to the care and care needs of this collective. These services are key tools for the general interest of citizenship and the safeguarding of fundamental human rights and human dignity, and contribute to ensuring equal opportunities for all people, increasing the capacity of citizenship to participate fully in society. Social services are also essential for achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion, and for achieving a high level of employment and economic growth. Given the desire of most seniors to stay in their usual surroundings, the home help service, which integrates domestic, personal and environment-related services into their program. But its design must include another series of complementary services adapted to the characteristics and needs of the rural environment and the population as a whole. That is to say, to extend the socio-health services, which contain – also – with the participation of rural development agents, equality, associations, school centres, cultural homes and all the population in general, concentrated in multi-purpose centres that integrate and optimize the scarce resources available. It is also essential to extend the ADO Service, ensuring its implementation in all the Galician communities to follow up after-hospital, post-surgical, pressure ulcer prevention and treatment and rehabilitation treatments. In this way, full attention would be sought. On the one hand, personal attention, and on the other hand, the renewal of the social and economic structure that takes on these new challenges and contributes to the creation of jobs, the incorporation and fixing of young people in the rural world and gender equality. Social services in rural areas must be comprehensive, flexible and close to the population, and will be developed as far as possible in their own home. And when this is not possible, these people must have an adapted public transport that brings them to where they can receive the attention they need. That is why we must not forget other parallel issues related to access to basic services and equipment. Road infrastructure and transport do not facilitate social and territorial cohesion. The poor state of the roads, mainly provincial and municipal, complicates the circulation in the cold months and geographical isolation is frequent, with the consequent complications for the sick or simply for the mobility of the population. And even when conditions are favorable, mobility is still greatly reduced by the lack of an adapted public transport system that responds to the needs of the population. But this bill presented by the People's Party does not aim to guarantee a better service to the population, only to consolidate an outsourced service delivery system. What is of interest to this bill is to establish that social services will be provided, preferably, by the social concert system, that is, by companies that provide these services in the private sphere. The social concert formula proposed by this bill will end with social services at the hands of, essentially, private companies with a profit, since social institutions must compete with them to opt for the service. With this bill, only companies such as Geriatrics, Euxa or Eulen – much related to the president – will benefit, among others, as well as centers dependent on the Catholic Church. That is to say, we are before a bill that renounces the provision of services in centres and with public means and bets on the social concert with private entities, the big business for companies in the sector! And all part of the administration's concept of responsibility for people's attention. Some people understand that the Administration must directly address the needs of the most vulnerable people in society in order to ensure their fundamental rights and quality in the provision of services. Social institutions must collaborate in this work with the Administration, but never replace it. For profit-making companies should not exist in this sector, since it is obscene to profit from poverty, pain, dependence and old age. But the People's Party understands this responsibility as an obligation to pay for someone to take care of the most vulnerable people. From there, Junta considers that he has already fulfilled his responsibility and that everything that happens is a problem of the private concessionary company. A good example of what could happen with this social concert system is health care at the Povervisa concert, since there is no other entity – not private or social – that will build a hospital that can compete with Povervisa. But, in addition, we're talking about putting social services, in general, into private hands: gender-based violence, risk, child care, dependence; that is, the most vulnerable part of society turned into a lucrative business. We will therefore vote against the consideration of this bill, because it does not intend to improve the attention of social services users, but rather to take the final step towards privatizing the provision of social services, leaving, in addition, for its subsequent development almost all the regulations it introduces. We understand that it is necessary to establish measures that guarantee access to the quality and opportunity of social services, but with a clear legislation that regulates which social services can be agreed upon and which must be addressed directly by the Administration. We understand that not all social services can be granted to private companies. In fact, we believe that none should be given to private companies, but we believe that there are some who are extremely sensitive in their treatment as to put them in private hands. It is also necessary to prioritize direct attention to any other formula, which establishes real positive discrimination between social entities and profit-making entities, because at the moment there is no such thing as competition is direct, and this positive discrimination is only given when they equal the supply. The legislation's over, it's six months left. So we understand that it must not be this Government that decides the future of social services in Galicia. We'll soon have a new government. We'll soon have a new House. Surely, the most likely thing is that the proportion of representation varies and, therefore, it will be and must be that new Parliament which it is dealing with and what the lines of social services are going to run in the coming years. That is why we will vote against the consideration of this bill, not because we believe that social services do not need, of course, a renewal, which is necessary, it is essential to ensure that such continuity in treatment is ensured; therefore, it is necessary and essential that the subrogation of the staff providing their services is guaranteed, but – of course – what is not acceptable is that this bill is used to ensure that the Administration declares itself exempt from direct benefit and contract and privatize directly. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliament Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning. We are ending a vile legislation in which many laws and approved fires have been dealt with, and that in many cases, on many occasions, they are not even complying. For example, we have the Health Insurance Act and the Non-Discrimination Act, LGTBI, which are different proposals because they are not even complied with today. But, in addition, we can highlight this period a remarkable lack of planning in the councils and in the board, as a whole, about the application and the planning of when and how the laws are discussed. It turns out that the People's Party used the Social Economy Bill, which yesterday launched the first meeting of the Phoenician Parliament to change the last provisions of the law, precisely the same law that today intends to amend in this bill, Law 13/2008, of social services in Galicia. That is, two legal texts are used to modify a single law, in a project they change some articles and in another project one is a project and another one is a proposition; they intend to change other articles, which in worldly language, so you could understand how a chapuza – I said it before – or a nonsense. It is not a normal way and it does not provide legal certainty, nor does it provide a complete debate about the set of social services to modify through a bill some articles of one law and use another to modify other articles of the same law. And by going to the content of the law, the People's Party – who recently voted against a proposal, in this case of the PSdEG which, in the same sense, intended to dominate social economy entities in the management of social services – today brings this initiative which, apparently the same purpose, leaves quite clear-cut to understand and which I am going to explain right now. This parliamentary group, as this honourable Member has defended in the past plenary session, places the social economy as a transformer agent as a counterpoint to the market economy itself, the speculative economy itself. And yet it is not clear from this text that the social economy is going to have that role, that it is not at the expense of public services. In other words, it is a law that a priori seems to benefit social economy entities, but which can serve to privatize public services, social services. Because this text, as it is, does not release current public services in social services, and does not prevent this new mode of concert from being used for the profit-oriented private enterprise as well. Thus, in Article 29, the wording worsens that of the current law, equalizing public services or managing concerts and privatizations directly; that is, right now the law would need improvements, but as it is even worse. It makes it clear that it leaves open competition or competitiveness between the public and the private, whether or not a profit-oriented entity or a non-profit entity, when what it should be doing is shielding public services, a preference for public management and, secondly, non-profit entities over the private enterprise. Article 33a sets out the social concert scheme, which opens even more the door to privatization of public services and equals non-profit entities with private companies to access that type of social concert, something that seems to be done in theory to dominate these social entities, but that ultimately what it will do is that private entities with a profit will be able to access that kind of concert. And we've already got to show the button that the concerts and the singular public health concerts, the damage they've done to public health itself, so we don't want to repeat them again. On the other hand, this bill says that the social concert is not subject to regulations regulating the public procurement regime. We therefore understand that the conditions will be ad hoc, not understanding why this bill leaves this limbo of legal insecurity. I mean, we have to vote or support something that we don't know what conditions it's going to have when it comes to dealing with these companies. Article 33 once again makes it clear that all public services are subject to private management. Article 33 septies makes it clear that the administrative formula remains open, what type of legal security does it offer? And, above all, it's a matter of discretion when deciding the conditions of an armored contract for years, because it states that it has to be a multi-year period and we don't want a new people in social services, with a singular concert that cannot be modified. On the other hand, the free choice that introduces Article 33 octies, for the truth is that we also care – and I feel like comparing again with health – but in health we already know what the consequences of this free choice are, in competition between the public and the private always loses the public, because with a liberal government what happens is that you invest less in public services and when choosing people will choose or will tend to choose the private service, as we have seen in the case of health in Vigo, what happened to that free choice with Povervisa and the lack of investment or mismanagement that was made concerning the public hospital. On the other hand, I understand that we would have to tone it; if it is as it is collected here we will not support it. On the other hand, once again, this text lacks economic memory, as it has already been customary. It doesn't explain the approximate cost, if you have it, of the application of the new concerts and this principle of free choice, and it doesn't tell us how much you're going to invest in social services. The bill, however, loses the opportunity, first, to shield public services and implement universality, eliminating compensations or, at least, limiting them in a real way, and does not address the non-compliances of many private companies that do not comply with the minimum personnel that they must have, therefore, with functional diversity or with cognitive diversity. In short, we understand that some social groups or entities advocate legislation that facilitates some stability when they manage social services. We understand that it is requested, in addition, that the Administration value its experience and that it takes them over the private enterprise. And we actually agree with that. The problem is, this text doesn't make that clear. This text, first of all, does not block public services, facilitates privatization, and equates them with private initiative, and just as the economic-social initiative on the profit-oriented initiative is not superimposed; on the contrary, it establishes a worrying equality between all options, between public management companies, between non-profit social economy companies and between profit-oriented private companies, allowing their competence and allowing social concerts that are shielded for years. So once these privatizations are signed, it's going to be pretty hard for the Government to be able to modify or rescind them, when they know that even with private management there are ways to stabilize services. It's said here, there's a possibility of subrogation of workers and workers, it happens in other areas of the administration. I support public services, but even with private management there is no need to shield private contracts, but to shield services to give stability to workers and workers and, at the same time, to give stability to users, who do not have to move – as the recommendations say – to another different centre to meet their needs and benefits. We will abstain from voting on the considerations made by the various disability agencies in our country, but we have moved them not to share the text, nor the spirit of the text – I have just explained it perfectly. Besides, we know that the People's Party will bring him forward with most of them. But we warn that in the debate, if it is so and as it is, if these conditions are not finally amended that do not shield the public and that they facilitate competition between the private and the social economy, we will obviously not support this initiative in the subsequent debate. We therefore understand that, unless it is amended, the intention of the initiative is far too far from helping social economy companies and more liberalizing and facilitating privatization in the social services of our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u12	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As the previous honourable Member has mentioned, it is a legislative error or a strange regulatory technique which we are supposed to have been discussing just a month ago on the Law of the Social Economy, we are starting its presentation procedure, and now a law promoted by the People's Party is also changing social services in the field of the social economy. Indeed, it is almost as paradoxical to that situation in which we are in: the Law on Social Economy changes basic aspects of the area of the Social Services Act, in the above mentioned essentially in its last third provision, to adapt it to a Law on the guarantee of market unity, and also about whether or not it needs to have prior communication for the opening of social services. And this amendment of the Law on Social Services brings to the debate precisely the area of the social economy through the social concert, which, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, on 15 September, through a proposal for the Act of the Socialist Party, we debate on this aspect, about the social concert, to amend the Social Services Act of the year 2008. Law that, of course, in his spirit, in his explanatory statement and then in his articulation, surely with evas, what he intended, and what he intends, since he is present, is to give priority to public services in the field of social services, effectively collecting that there is a history in social services and that the third sector and non-profit entities that have been serving people and families for decades exist and need that – we call it – "positive discrimination" on the part of the administration. But here is the problem that exists in this text that we bring the debate today for its consideration is: are we going to change through this text the logic of the Social Services Act itself so that they do not have priority for public services, is that what is hidden or what is behind it? And are we going to put at the same level through this social concert figure those non-profit entities that are working very well for decades in the field of social services that other entities that, being companies, use – and allow me to say – as camouflage, as disguise or as a way of presenting before the administration the formulation of non-profit entities? I mean, camouflaged companies, companies that are looking for... I don't mean the big groups, which since Feijóo is president if they have important treatment within social services, even there are children's schools that are not public schools, but they've been pulled out of private competition; which is an absolute mistake, marking differences in the social services network itself in the area of child care from 0 to 3 years. But here is one of the problems we see in this law, which we actually go to its literality, both in Article 33a and in the following, it is unclear when it comes to social or private initiative entities. That is to say, there is a framework in the text itself, where for us two issues are not perfectly addressed: firstly, the preeminence of the public at the disposal of Galicia's public services and secondly, that this social concert does not mean entering into a whole series of companies and greater privatization of Galicia's public services. We understand from the Galician Nationalist Block that in any case the social concert must mark this character of complementarity and cooperation. From this principle of complementarity and cooperation is where the social concert should be established. Not a formula or not a way to go out of public space in social services, let alone when we all know the weakness that social services have in the public domain, because we have come late to this so-called "society of well-being", because it is a piar that at the moment when the economic crisis was developing it broke with it and, in addition, because it is a service that has its highly intertwined competences between the local and the autonomic sphere. That's why for us in no way the social concert must be a substitute for public services. It is something in the presentation process, because we understand that this text is going to go on... we will not oppose it from the very moment on which it follows its process; the vote of the Galician Nationalist Block will be the abstention, to allow debate among all parliamentary groups, to include amendments with this logic, that the amendment of the Social Services Act will continue to maintain the preeminence of the public in social services, that the social concert will remain as a figure within complementarity and cooperation and that the private initiative is excluded, the companies with a benefit, this area of the social concert, which is not so collected. It's true you're in trouble with this law. In addition, they are encouraged when a Socialist Party law is not taken into consideration in September, they are expected for several months, when we could already have worked in the context of the presentation on that text, because we could have modified that text with the characteristics that the majority group considered, with the relevant legal reports or with which it was needed. It's surprising that you've been waiting these months for us to have a more explicit presentation now – I suppose – since we're at the end of the legislation. But I reiterate that our position is clear, and we are not going to obstruct with a vote against this text to follow its course, but there are aspects in the context of the presentation that we do not share, which we understand the need for the third sector and social initiative entities, to which we have repeatedly welcomed the need for this social concert for its work. But in that social concert within the text that is adopted in this House, to receive the affirmative vote of the Nationalist Block of Wales, you must be nestled, which is not a door to privatization, which simply refers to the complementarity and cooperation of social services. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Counsellor for Social Policy. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of taking into account this bill presented by the People's Parliamentary Group to amend the Galician Social Services Act 13/2008 and introduce the social concert, by political coherence, by ideological conviction and by recognizing the role of third sector entities, of non-profit social initiative entities. Political coherence, which leads us to say that although today it takes into account this bill, it has to do with what the Socialist Parliamentary Group did in the past year 2015 subject to debate in this Chamber a bill amending that Law 13/2008, of social services in Galicia, precisely in order for the social concert to be introduced into that law as of a preeminent character in relation to the management of social services, the externalized management of social services, and that in addition that preeminent character of the social concert had to do with social initiative entities, with the third sector, i.e., with non-profit entities, with commercial institutions. Therefore, if in September 2015 we debate in the plenary of this Parliament that proposal of the Socialist Group, which was rejected by the votes of the majority of the People's Group, it is logical to think that the Socialist Group has not changed its position from September to today and will therefore vote in favour of taking into consideration. Ideological conviction is what leads us to tell each time we go up to this forum that we understand that social services must be considered as a fundamental part of the rights of citizenship, they must be considered as the right to health or the right to education. They must therefore be provided from public administrations and managed by public administrations. Now, we recognize that at certain times in the history of a country we do not always have all the necessary social infrastructures or all the public squares necessary to meet the demand of citizenship, and in that case, and only in that case, it is necessary to arrange for such services with entities. And that's where it comes to us playing the social concert, because that's where social initiative entities, third sector entities, non-profit entities, and commercial entities must be given precedence. That is the only way we understand how to deliver these social concerts. That's why he said we have this ideological conviction. And it's true that the current Government of Galicia could have done this with the current Social Services Act of 2008, because in articles 29 et seq. that law established strings, it set barriers to favouring non-profit entities to have precedence over other entities, but it's true that Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government chose to do the opposite: by bordering the law, trying to outsourcing everything else that social services could and making the recruitment almost exclusively with commercial entities. I must remind you, Mr Social Policy Counsellor, that of all the contests and contracts that came out of the competitive competition since Mr Feijóo's rule had only three centres to direct management of the administration itself, all the others were outsourced, and most of those who went out were to stop the hands of commercial entities and private initiative for profit. And I remember five names from five companies that are taking the bulk of all the public contests that the Government makes in the area of social services: Fesan, Troncoso, Doral Residencial, Geriatrics and Eulen. These are the five companies Mr. Feijó's government has given them the business, and in this case the "trade" of Galician social services. That is why we voted in favour of the ideological conviction of taking this bill into account today, but indeed we are afraid of the real intentions of the People's Party. Because if the People's Party wanted to legislate on the social concert and wanted the non-profit social initiative entities to have precedence over commercial or private entities, it could have voted in favour in September 2015 of taking into account the Socialist Parliamentary Group's bill, and today we would have approved, monitor and in operation a law that would indeed make that prevalence. But the People's Party in September 2015 didn't want to vote in favour. And what were the two reasons you mentioned at that time in the People's Party debate? The first, that law had legal defects and, the second, that it was not in line with the entities of the third sector. The two reasons were two lies: First, because if that law had legal problems, how is it possible that the filter of Parliament's judicial services in Galicia could be taken into consideration? Or how could that law have legal defects in Galicia and exact and literally the same text had been adopted unanimously in the House of the Principality of Asturias, including the popular vote? The second, the dialogue. How do you think the People's Group made that bill or the Socialist Group? We are, of course, talking to third sector entities, as we are now going to make amendments to improve this text that is being brought to us today, because we have already called in addition to the third sector entities for this same week to be able to make those partial amendments that improve the text. Because, as the honourable Members and the Members who preceded me in the use of the word, in fact, there are lagoons, there are clear in the wording given by the People's Group to this legal text. And what we want is to ensure – because Community legislation allows today – that priority is social concert and that in social concert priority is non-profit entities in the third sector, which are not only the entities that are grouped into Cermi, which are also the entities that are grouped into the Greek Network against Poverty or the entities that are grouped into the Greek associations of child abuse care. I mean, all third sector associations, all non-profit civil society entities working on these issues, including organizations working on cooperation. Therefore, we must ensure very well in this law that all of them are included in the social concert and that the social concert clearly before the outsourcing of a public service is a priority for non-profit entities. And he said a third reason why we supported taking into consideration this bill: ideological conviction, political coherence and recognition. The very recognition of the role played by third sector entities throughout democracy in relation to social services. Because they were, in many cases formed by the families of people who had some kind of problem, those who have sustained from their collective work many services that were not being given by the administrations. But, look, I insist: from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we don't want these social initiative entities, which have done so much for visibility, for the recognition of the problems of people with functional diversity and their treatment, to be those who have to bear a burden that must be borne by public administrations. Because public services and social services are public services, and they must be provided primarily from public administrations. And we socialists want social services to be a right, a right like the right to health or the right to education. That is why I insist: we will vote in favour, but it will be a critical one, hoping that in that statement we will be able to improve that text. Because we are not going to allow the People's Party for a problem of conscience and for wanting to wash its image for voting in September 2015 against a bill brought here by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to try to wash its image now with this bill to stand well before the collectives on the eve of the autonomous elections. We shall finally vote for the text that comes out of the debate on the motion if it commits itself to the Government. If what is done is only to wash the image of the People's Party, because it has committed the sacrilege of voting against an initiative of the Socialist Group, of course they will have to face. Because we're going to support third sector entities in any case, as we did when we brought the bill here in September 2015. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u15	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Replica from the author group of the bill. [[Pause.]] Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Here the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego, comes not to wash the image in front of anyone. Here the parliamentary group is going to present an amendment to the Social Services Act that you have drafted and approved to improve the quality of social services, to improve the attention of users and, of course, to shield the management of social initiative entities, and it doesn't give you the slightest doubt. I don't know with what intention you and the Socialist Group have put forward their proposal; of course, ours is this: improving social services, improving the attention and quality of attention to people who are receiving these services and improving the management of social services, including a new management formula, which is the social concert. But, of course, as the People's Party presents it... We are going to remove from this debate all the issues that you have just raised concerning which is a scarce document, which is intended to privatize social services. Firstly, because if it is a scarce document – and you know that you can improve that document – they have a presentation procedure where the People's Parliamentary Group will be open to all proposals from the opposition parliamentary groups. So if it's scarce, and you think it can be improved, that's your job. And our job is to talk to you about what your proposals are to reach as broad a deal as possible. But, of course, when they tell me that what this initiative is trying to privatize social services is that I didn't give credit from my place. Because, look, we're not inventing a new law, we're modifying a law that has been in force in Galicia since 2008, we're talking about the Social Services Act, which you probably reviewed before coming to this debate. A law which says that social services will be provided directly or indirectly by the Greek administrations "through the various types of procurement of public service management established in the regulations governing public sector contracts". They explain to me where this law said that only direct and residual management of social services could be prioritized. And they also explain to me where they prioritized the management of non-profit entities when they said that physical and legal persons deprived of social or commercial initiative could act as social service providers and, consequently, create social services centres, as well as manage programs and services of this nature. And that's what the public administrations have done since the adoption of this Law on Social Services in Galicia: to manage services and to provide social services directly or indirectly. And you did it in the Council of Galicia, you made it the current government, because you have to do things within the law and within the Public Administration Contracts Act too, you made the councils and you made other administrations. So, let's give up that speech that it's the People's Party that wants to privatize social services, because what this proposal wants to do is quite the opposite. What you want to do is that, apart from direct management and indirect management within the framework of the regulations governing public sector contracts, social services can be provided through the social concert modality provided for in this law, which will be used in preference to other forms of provision of social services, and agreements with non-profit entities. Please, seriously. Do you call this privatizing social services? Really, they're completely wrong. That's why I'm sure in that presentation process you'll talk to social entities, talk to Cermi and talk to the rest of the organizations you think are appropriate, and you'll be convinced that the social concert and this change that you propose right now is the best for the social services of our community. And, of course, there is a document from the Socialist Parliamentary Group – we have not forgotten, we have said it in our first intervention – and I hope, Mrs Gallego, that you too are consistent and faithful with that document which the Socialist Party presented. Look, we all want to start the presentation process, talk to social entities, talk to Cermi, talk to all parliamentary groups and come to an agreement. And not for the sake of the People's Party or the Unity of Galicia, for the good of the people who are currently receiving some kind of social services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. We are now debating the point that was first mentioned. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to present before the Congress of Deputies, of civil and environmental responsibility and the Prosecutor's Office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u18	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs Vilán has the floor by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today we have come to talk about justice, we have come to talk about democratic quality and the environment. Because effective justice and, above all, agile, rapid justice is fundamental to meeting the rights and needs that are not met by other ways. What good is it for us to have recognized by the Constitution rights if then administrations are unable to give them a proper and timely response when they are raped? And the socialists understand that one of the pillars of this social and democratic rule of law in which we are supposed to live is the public service of justice. And in that social and democratic rule of law, which was recognized by the Constitution of 1978, in its article 45, in a very advanced way for the year 1978 – we have to say so – the right of citizens to "enjoy an adequate environment as an indispensable condition for the development of the person", while the Constitution states that those who are in breach of the obligation to use natural resources rationally and retain nature must repair the damage, regardless of the administrative or criminal sanctions that correspond to them. The environment is everyone's, but we must bear in mind that today, with the economic crisis situation in which we live, nobody will put their time and, above all, their money to defend the environment, which is everyone's. In matters of environment and the protection of biodiversity, of the need for environmental civil responsibility, there are few individuals who individually initiate a judicial process. That's usually only done by environmental groups, associations or platforms that protect the environment. And this responsibility after the law of 2007, the Environmental Civil Responsibility Act, is also an unlimited responsibility of an objective character. It is curious that in this 21st century in Spain we have no rule allowing there to be a body that defends everyone's interests through compensation, especially when we already have that body, and it is the Prosecutor's Office. As a spokesperson for this bill, I have to say that it would not be possible for you to present yourself without the invaluable help of the former prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, Mr. Carlos Varela, who was the one in the 2013 Public Prosecutor's Memory, to collect this idea as a possible legislative reform. And collecting your witness here are the socialists because we believe in the protection of the environment and we believe in the justice and defence of citizens' rights. This bill looks at a processal reform, towards a substantive environmental reform that will arbitrate new liability systems that prevent environmental damage and, above all, in cases where they occur, ensure a proper and prompt solution and repair – I repeat: appropriate and fast – for these damage, because the Constitution also recognizes the right to a process without undue delay. That is why we believe that it would be necessary to enable the Prosecutor's Office to implement the requirement of civil liability for damage to the environment. Because these damage is important to our collective and to society as a whole, we need to make effective the defense in judgment of those interests that are legally called "diffuses", which affect us all. And, above all, because they affected us all in the year 2002 when it was the Prestige catastrophe and because, year by year, they affect us all when Galicia burns unable to specify who the author of those fires is. And this is precisely the meaning of this bill. As I said, we have precedents for disasters with severe environmental conditions in our sea and our land. Perhaps it was the development of the Prestige judicial process, after its disaster and everything that came after it, which allowed us to ascertain our inadequacies in the Spanish legal system to have a truly agile and effective protection of our environment. However, we are aware that it is not possible for the Public Prosecutor's Office to take care of this function with this rickets organization that it has and with the few existing personnel. There is a need for a considerable increase in its staff, which depends on or would depend on the state government, and even the possibility that special prosecutorial offices would be formed. And so they come by saying the environmental prosecutors in each autonomous community. The state government is obliged to do so, and the Government of the Galician Union is obliged to enforce it, because we believe, indeed, that after the prestige Galicia disaster it deserves the prosecutor's office to defend our territory. And for that we have articulated this bill, which consists of three articles – it is very short –, a derogatory provision and a last disposition. In Article 1, we call for the Civil Settlement Act of the year 2000 to be amended to have the Prosecutor's Office legitimation to request, exercise, any public environmental claim, defending the interests – those interests of all – that are related to environmental catastrophes. In Article 2, we request the amendment of the Environmental Responsibility Act of 2007 – in its Article 41 in particular – so that when procedures for the requirement of environmental responsibility are initiated it is the Fiscal Ministry, any operator or other interested person – but also the Fiscal Ministry – who can do so In Article 3, we request the addition of an additional provision eight bis to this Environmental Responsibility Act of 2007, so that it is legitimized in these processes and for any competent authority and any administration to assist it, to make known to this body the matters, the assumptions of environmental responsibility, and that the public authorities take all appropriate measures to ensure that their authorities and staff provide technical, material or any other assistance to the Prosecutor's Office itself, always following the basic lines of their professional status. There is only one derogation, of which they are called generics, which simply repeals all previous rules that are contrary to this law. And finally, the only last provision establishes a non-immediate entry into force with a period of six months, because we understand that it would serve to ensure the full applicability of the bill that we bring to the consideration of this House today. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we believe that the Prosecutor's Office should be legitimized to initiate civil proceedings for damage to the environment – because we have already found it in the Prestige case – before reaching the Supreme Court. If you go through the criminal procedure and the sentence is absolute, or you are not able, because the facts are not criminal, to reach a conviction, it would not be possible to impose this civil responsibility, because the vision of unlimited and objective environmental responsibility in this case of major damage has to be social, eminently social, and who better than the Prosecutor's Office can deal with the defence of society? Its legitimization is important, not only because this necessary compensation could be obtained for damage which is very difficult to recover from a private person and not a collective of affected persons, but also because in many of these cases the same offence is a crime; and if the Prosecutor's Office is already in charge of its persecution, what better than the Prosecutor's Ministry itself to be able to initiate the civil process as well? The justification of this legitimation for us lies in the importance of the protected, which is the environment, our territory, and in the alarming dimensions that have recently suffered environmental damage in our country; to which, of course, we are still exposed. This would -- we know -- be an interesting incursion of private law into environmental care, exactly as in other countries around us, in other countries of comparative law. In short, the legitimization of the public ministry for this claim meant a qualitative leap in the historical evolution of the Prosecutor's Ministry itself. Through a claim of environmental public protection, we could achieve the protection, protection, of something as essential to the human species as is the environment. Of course, we are aware that this solution is controversial, that it generates an interventionism of an organ that is public, of the public thing, in private affairs that may be rejected by many, but after the Prestige catastrophe, of the fire catastrophes, of the judicial outcome that we had in the Prestige fourteen years later and of the fires every year without knowing who causes them and without getting any kind of compensation, we understand that it is a bill more than necessary. For us, it's vital, and it could even be that this House started a little revolution. We hope they vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u21	Thank you. Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. I would like to put forward the affirmative vote to take into consideration the Socialist Party's Bill on Civil, Environmental Responsibility and the Prosecutor's Office. As it was well stated in the bill for which we came to give our affirmative vote, the environment is all. This is reflected in article 45 of the Constitution, under which the right of citizens to enjoy a quality of life consistent with the dignity of the person, recognized in article 10 of the Constitution. Both values, the dignity of the person and the quality of life, have been linked by the judgement of Constitutional Court 102/1995, because each person has the inalienable right to dwell in his or her environment according to his or her cultural characteristics. On the other hand, the systematic location of the article in our Magna Charter leaves no doubt as to the fact that we are faced with one of the guiding principles of social and economic policy. This means that the conservation of the environment becomes a real transversal goal that inspires the action of all authorities; its recognition of protection must therefore inform the positive legislation, judicial practice and the performance of public authorities in accordance with Article 53 of the Constitution. Our text was pioneering in this sense, because I was able to capture, at a time when there were not many precedents in the constitutions of the environment, the radical importance that can have the protection of the environment in life and in the rights of people. Only in this context we have just mentioned can the true dimension of Article 45 of the Constitution be understood. However, these forecasts are at risk of becoming wet paper if public authorities do not respond or have mechanisms to respond effectively to situations where our natural heritage can be compromised. In this sense, this honourable Member welcomes the Socialist Party's proposal for a law, but he does not want to let the content of the legislation pass. We share the analysis made of the need to defend our environment and biodiversity, especially when Galicia suffers from the disastrous consequences of decades of unsustainable forest management and when legislation on maritime safety and pollution fighting has been developed, among others, and so affects us, the accident of the Prestige, which marked a point of departure, but thanks to the immense social mobilization, which again aired the legal miseries that protected and continue to defend an industry, which is oil industry, with strong economic interests. The result, among other things, of the aforementioned catastrophe, was the law which seeks to amend with the proposal being taken into account; that is, Law 26/2007 of 23 October 2007 on environmental responsibility, which transposes Directive 2004/35/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004. At the very least, it seems curious to this honourable Member, this parliamentary group, which is cited as an illustration in the explanatory statement on the grounds presented here by the Prestige disaster as an example of a lack of effectiveness in defending diffuse interests related to environmental disasters, when precisely in 2007, under the mandate of the Socialist Government, the text mentioned and currently in force, from which hydrocarbons and accidents at sea are excluded. I mean, if there was a new Prestige tomorrow, we'd meet again with inefficient legislation, which would make it very difficult for anyone responsible for the damage to repair it. We wonder what the reasons for exclusion are, and it only happens to us: the economic interests at stake; in which the great parties that ruled historically this state have always doubled. Having said this, and despite the criticism that we want and should not fail to point out, we understand how beneficial it is to include the figure of the Prosecutor's Office in article 11 of the Civil Settlement Act 1,200 of 7 January. We believe that the legitimation granted in the field of civil justice for the defence of diffuse interests related to environmental disasters is appropriate, thus expanding the protection for those cases where certain facts do not constitute a crime, but a clear violation of the right of citizenship to enjoy an adequate environment; thus, it is acceptable by civil jurisdiction. Even reform should be of greater silence, also legitimizing the ecological and nature-defense associations to defend collective and diffuse interests in the environment in civil jurisdiction. And this is analogous to the forecasts already collected in article 11 of the Civil Assets Act with regard to legitimation for the defence of consumer and user interests, a guarantee mechanism that we consider to be a good reference. Further discussion raises the inclusion of the figure of the Prosecutor's Office under Article 41 of Law 26/2007 of 23 October 2007 on environmental responsibility. The text of the explanatory statement itself indicates that it is operational legislation within the administrative field. I mean, it's a substantive and non-procedural rule of law, as in the case of the above-mentioned Civil Settlement Act. Legal operators involved in the sanctioning procedure regulated in this text are of an administrative nature, therefore directly or indirectly dependent on the executive power. We must not forget that the Prosecutor's Office is a body with its own legal responsibility, integrated with functional autonomy within the judiciary, as defined in the second article of Law 50/1981 of 30 December, which regulates the Professional Statute of the Prosecutor's Office. The legitimation to initiate the procedure in question of awarding the Prosecutor's Office is therefore made in the context of an administrative procedure. It's a novice competition with respect to which we find no legal impediment that we can highlight. Of course, we're not going to be the ones who put the traps so that the Public Prosecutor's Office can start the procedure, thus articulating a new possibility in the defence of the environment; that is yes, whenever this measure is brought together a coherent and consistent increase in the provision of public prosecutors' squares, since it would be of no use to overburden this collective even more without valuing its real possibility of assuming this new competition that is intended to be attributed to it. We want to avoid this that no one then calls upon the slowness of the judicial system to explain many of our evils as a society, when often it does not cease to be a matter of political will and public investment in human resources and material means to make the system work properly. By all means, we reiterate our affirmative vote with regard to the bill that is before us. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u22	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u23	Good morning to all of you. As everyone knows, I'm an expert in judicial proceedings, it's my specialty since very little. But, without a hint, that one of the experts explained to me why the British Petroleum oil platform accident in the Gulf of Mexico had been sentenced in five years, with an amount of compensation, fines and damage caused by 48 billion euros, and here, after fourteen years, in the last minute, due to the conviction of the Supreme Court and the disclosure of the Provincial Court's judgement, we can aspire, after fourteen years and hopefully, to compensations of up to 1 billion euros, and after a long and very hard process that opens for the execution of that sentence. The experts have to explain these two questions, the difference between context and context, because the truth is that reality changes, and much, right? We are going to support this initiative, which we think is very timely. The issue is to grant legitimation to the Prosecutor's Office for the defence of the interests of those affected, as in 2014 the Civil Corrections Act was amended to include consumer and user defence after the pre-emptive scandal. It also extends the legitimization of the Prosecutor's Office to property liability files, granting them legitimization to submit the application for initiation. And, in fact, the Prosecutor's Office is already legitimized, according to the eighth provision of Law 26/2007, in the litigation-administrative proceedings arising from the proceedings of environmental responsibility. And if the prosecutor's office is legitimized for the judicial procedure, it must also be for the administrative procedure. Well, and we don't escape, as the author of the proposal has already said, that one of the fundamental motivations of this was the accident, the Prestige disaster. Once again, he demonstrated the ability of the People's Party to manage and manage well in front of the administrations. It has also demonstrated the existence of Peter's principle in the Spanish State and, in particular, in the People's Party; that principle which states that in certain hierarchical organizations responsible people rise to the highest degree of incompetence. And, to our surprise, Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa and Mr. Rajoy had not yet achieved their highest level of incompetence after Prestige's management. They were still promoted in their political careers and awarded by the brilliant management they did in those days of the Prestige catastrophe. Mr. Rajoy was a minister and arrived at the President of the Government, and it seems, as he has shown over time, that he has achieved his highest level of incompetence in the Presidency of the Government. We've seen enough incompetence shown by Mr. Rajoy in those days. It has also shown not only a mismanagement of those moments of the catastrophe, but also an evil process management later, in later years. The failure in the process initiative in the United States against the classifier, a failure which also later influenced the process opened in the Spanish State, the Corcubion Court and the Provincial Court, which limited the information that could exist and which was located in the United States and was not in the process of the Spanish State. And also the failure in the arbitration process in London, initiated by the insurer, and in what the Spanish State didn't even figure out. Finally, we also learned that the black history of the Prestige is the blockage of responsibilities. What was sought is to block the responsibilities of the political leaders of the Government of the State, of the Council of Galicia, of the contracting parties, of the shipowner, of the freighter, of the insurer, of the inspector and of the State itself as civil responsible. Each and every one of them wanted – and they have conquered for now – the legal sham of their responsibilities: of policies, administrative, criminal, civil and economic. The social condemnation of the whole of the Galician citizenship of those responsible for the tragedy was imposed on the judicial proceedings, both civil and criminal, developed so far; impunity to which, as I said, it greatly helped the process of the State, the Prosecutor's Office, the Provincial Court of the Crown. Mangouras' conviction for environmental crime opens the door for compensation in the last minute. All the above, any change that goes in the direction of what the Socialist Party proposes seems essential to us, and more will have to be done to achieve the necessary levels of environmental effectiveness and protection and general interest and that they have not been able to achieve in the Prestige process. Let us hope that this initiative will not be admitted, because it would be to prevent us from walking towards a future in which, if it happens again and we are being told by all the experts that due to the geographical conditions of Galicia and the very dense transit of oil tankers on our coasts, it may happen again – we hope not – because we have some conditions that allow us to compensate, within possible, such as the one that happened in the Prestige and that can be expandable, as we have also said, certain catastrophes that may occur in the ignition of fires. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As previously expressed in previous interventions, in the 2013 memoir of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office of Galicia, Mr. Carlos Varela sent us to Parliament a proposal on the need for public civil action for the protection of the environment and other diffuse interests. It was part of the observation at that time that the insufficient or unsatisfactory pronouncement in criminal proceedings concerning the problem caused, of the catastrophe caused in our country by the Prestige ship. And he, at that time, already considered that all the facts that were taking place in connection with this matter found that the legal order in the Spanish State was insufficient to provide an integral legal guardianship of the environment, which, as has been said in previous interventions, is well protected by the Spanish Constitution itself. Mr Varela said that this had helped to create a sense of socially self-defense perceived by the Greeks and the Greeks, where at that time he said that eleven years later because there was no kind of compensation for social and collective interests in this matter. That is why we believe that this initiative is very timely, which aims to address these deficiencies in the procedural legal system in the Spanish State referred to by Mr. Carlos Varela. It must be made clear that civil road or private law has a secondary role, or so far had a secondary role, in the protection of the environment, for different reasons. First, because of the difficulties of protecting or protecting collective property, such as the environment, through figures of a markedly individualist nature, such as civil law. Usually, through civil law, there are only individualist subsidies that are not currently used to resolve conflicts that are not strictly between individuals. Specifically, with regard to the environment on the civilian road, there are two avenues – worth redundancy – for which individuals can apply for responsibility on this issue, which is civil liability for damage to the environment and negative action. However, this somehow improved with the transposition of Directive 2004/35 through Law 26 of the year 2007. But still, from the point of view of the protection or compensation of collective and diffuse interests, the possibility that there may be action from the public sphere is reduced to that of criminal investigation or affecting public goods, as can be effectively poured out, such as those produced by the Prestige, or by factories in the river, as was the case of Brenntag, or other such matters, where, if there is no criminal proceeding, the legal services of the various administrations, either through the State Counsel or through the Juridical Counsel of the Union, act. This in criminal matters. But in the civil sphere, we should believe legitimation, the relationship with specific interests, which are defended in many cases, can limit claims from the public sphere when there is a general or collective interest, but it is not strictly related to the heritage or the performance of the Administration. Precisely this is one of the reasons why we believe that, by giving legitimation to civil claim, there would not have to be a previous criminal trial – which now, if there is a need for this previous criminal trial – there would be no evidence that there is an reckless or painful fault on the part of those who cause these environmental damage so that there can be a public intervention in claiming damages and interests; simply with an assessment of the impact of general collective interests in order to enable one to act in claiming damage caused by accidents or disasters. That is why we believe it is important that we take this initiative into consideration, if we are also aware – but that would be perfectly substantial through the presentation of amendments and in the presentation process – that it has several problems with the issues that have been discussed here. The first problem is that perhaps – and precisely in order not to cause oversize of the prosecution's actions by limited resources – might have to establish some type of accommodation or "limitation" – between quotes – to its legitimacy; that is, to establish or delineate well the objective scope of the administration's action based on the type or quality of the public social interest or even its impact that must be preserved through its action. But there is another question that is very important to us. Here we have talked on many occasions about the Prestige, because it is where this initiative of the former superior prosecutor of Galicia starts. But I have to say – and I think I am not mistaken – that, even if it has been approved – not here in this Parliament, but in the Congress of Members – this initiative in terms of what it is right now, in relation to the subject of the Prestige, nothing would have been resolved, or even if it had ever happened in the future, because in this initiative it is proposed, in addition to the amendment of the Civil Code, an article and a specific provision of the Law 26/2007, but it would be necessary to promote the amendment of other provisions and articles of the Law 26/2007, because it must be remembered that during 2013 the People's Party in Congress of Deputies has promoted the amendment of this law, of the Environmental Responsibility Act, which entered into force in 2014, and with which, among other things, they were excluded from the scope of the law of environmental civil liability, the marine risks for hydrocarbons; that is to say, if we do not change that law to include marine risks for hydrocarbons, the topic of the Prestige would remain unresolved. And although we don't talk about the initiative, but we did talk a lot about the previous interventions, I wouldn't have too much expectations about the impact this law could have – this amendment – on the compensation for the damage caused by forest fires. Although this would be the subject of another debate, in any case, I have to say that the main problem in forest fires in relation to damage is that in a huge percentage there is no known author or responsible from a criminal or civil point of view, unless we consider that civil responsibility should fall within the administration that promotes, allows or supports a certain forest model that causes the proliferation of forest fires. Maybe it's a way to explore, anyway, but I just wanted to make that mention. I also have to say that, if this initiative is taken into consideration, the Parliamentary Group of the Galego Nationalist Block, continuing the above, also considers that other amendments to the Law 26/2007, of environmental responsibility, which were amended in 2013 and 2014, as is, for example, the amendment of Article 24, where financial guarantees to be set up for activities that are potentially dangerous to the environment, are to be included; Article 28, where exemptions have been established for the establishment of this mandatory financial guarantee, which has led to a disqualification of certain exempt activities and therefore leaves in the hands of the Government the possibility of releasing even more activities; Article 30, where the quantitative limits of that guarantee have been laid down; and some other issue that, as we say, has changed in 2013 and that what has been done substantially reduces the environmental responsibility of certain activities and, in a way, has alleviated the obligations of the activities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u26	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u27	...or potentially polluting agents or dangerous agents to the environment, which we think there would be, at least, to return. Having said that, I would like to stress that we are voting in favour of this initiative, that we consider it very appropriate and that we believe that the obligation and effectiveness to compensate for the damage of those people who pollute, who damage the environment, would also have a preventive value, because, of course, we all know that when it is forced to respond financially to some kind of irregular activity it also acts as an incentive when establishing preventive mechanisms. So we think it would be very useful to improve the quality of our environment and to protect people's right to enjoy a sustainable environment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all. They ask through their initiative, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we address ourselves to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies to deal with this bill. The truth is that we would understand that it was the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego or the Joint Parliamentary Group that presented this bill, but the fact is that we do not understand in any case that it is the Socialist Group, because you have representation in the Congress of Deputies and therefore do not need to make use of this kind of tool. You have representation in the Congress of Deputies. It is true that they have the smallest history of the Socialist Party, but they have representation, and therefore they would not have to make use of this parliamentary tool which, of course, is not intended for the Galician Parliament to seek to legislate on procedural legislation, such as the Civil Judgment Act, which is the sole jurisdiction of the State. So, Mrs Vilan, we have to tell you that we don't understand this initiative, either in form or at the bottom. As anecdote, I would like to tell you about this initiative which, well, proves that you betrayed the subconscious because you propose to modify the last provision of the Civil Settlement Act, in which you suggest that it appears that this law will enter into force the day following your publication in the CEO, in the Official Journal of Galicia. I suppose Mrs. Susana Díaz won't look good, she'll be in the State Official Gazette. From the People's Parliamentary Group we believe that the initiative is rigorous. The minimum that could wait for a bill as presented would be to respect the most elemental terminological rigor in the technical-legal sphere, and we believe that this proposal does not. Unless you try to introduce a new category into the legal system, there is neither the civil environmental liability nor the Law 26/2007, of 23 October, of environmental responsibility, including the term "civil", as you point out, in your name. In our legal order, the figure of civil responsibility recognizes the right of persons to be compensated for the damages and prejudices inflicted on their subjective rights or legitimate interests of exclusively private rooting or even to physical health and integrity as a result of either of non-compliance with contractual obligations or of actions or omissions in which guilt or negligence coincides. The Environmental Responsibility Act, as has already been said, transposes Directive 2004/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on environmental responsibility in relation to the prevention and repair of environmental damage, incorporating into our legal system an administrative regime of objective and unlimited environmental responsibility based on that principle that we all share, which is: "who is paying pollution". It is therefore an administrative regime to the extent that it establishes a whole set of administrative powers so that, in the exercise of its powers, the Public Administration can ensure compliance with the law and the application of the liability regime it incorporates. It therefore separates itself from civil liability for damage. This clear distinction between environmental responsibility and civil responsibility is clearly reflected in Article 5.1 of the Act itself. So, with regard to your initiative, I have to say that there is a law on environmental responsibility on 26/2007 which entitles economic operators to take preventive measures to avoid and repair environmental damage and that it confers on the Administration specific powers to control that is done, or, in other cases, directly to intervene in their case at the expense of the person responsible. We must state that the Prosecutor's Office can and must act when the action or omission that causes environmental damage brings together the elements necessary to be punishable in the criminal sphere in defence of public interests in the pursuit and repression of crimes that are prosecuted by the office and of specific legal property protected by rights against the environment. However, the work of the Prosecutor's Office in this area of criminal law focuses primarily on investigating the existence of such criminal offences which may be prosecuted in an official capacity, in order to formalize or not the corresponding criminal charge in defence of public interest. The Prosecutor's Office is also entitled to legitimization in proceedings relating to the application of the Law 26/2007. And the damages and prejudices that are abused by the physical integrity or the heritage of private persons are expressly left to the Environmental Responsibility Act and have their own channels of sensitivity through non-administrative judicial processes; therefore, civil or, in their case, criminal where the Prosecutor's Office is already entitled to claim the compensation of any damages and prejudices caused to the benefit of the persons injured on the basis of civil liability arising from crime. I have to refer to the question of what you were talking about, the Prestige disaster, and it is that the prevention of marine pollution by vessels repairing possible damage on the basis of civil liability already has its own legislation through the various international conventions and, as it has rightly been pointed out, for this reason the Law 26/2007 itself excludes from its scope the imminent environmental damage and threats that such damage occurs when they have its origin in an event whose consequences, as regards liability or compensation, are established by some of the international conventions listed in Annex 4, where the 1992 International Convention on Civil Liability appears textually; no damage caused by the environment due to pollution by hydrocarbons. Mrs Vilan, it is surprising that you from the Socialist Party refer to environmental responsibility and speak of the Prestige when, since the final ruling was given, from the People's Party, we have been waiting for your apology for the political use you have made of that issue. And there's the shame -- yes, yes -- motion of censure driven by the Socialist Party, shameful use of that catastrophe to harm a government. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry you didn't take the last sentence to apologize for that shameful act. [[Applause]] Also from the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Bieiras; also from the Galician Nationalist Block. Today the last Prestige ruling opens the way to claim the civilian responsibilities of the ship's insurers and demonstrates that the actions of both governments, the self-government and the State Government were not only correct but they were especially deligent, and proof of this was the rapid recovery of the environment and the way in which those affected by the Death Coast were charging the aid within a month. It's less than a month since you filed a motion of censure to attack a government. Today there's a firm sentence that says the captain was responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u31	...and you tried to pull political cuts. Were you on the side of the government defending the general interest, on the side of the government defending the environment? Nooon, they were on the side of political opportunism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u33	That's the reality. And it's unfortunate that you didn't take your time on this initiative to apologize for the role that your parties played in that crisis; the unfortunate role that history will judge. The sentence is clear, and where responsibility has been, and the convicted is Mr. Mangouras, the man you both defended because the blame, of course, was for the Government, the Government of the State and the Government of the United States. Today we have a firm sentence that says that the captain was guilty and that you have made demagogy regrettable to attack a government. I'm sorry you don't take advantage of today to apologize...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u34	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u35	Don't you have feelings?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u36	Silence! Sir Beers, silence. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u37	Mr. Beers, I can talk whatever you want because I'm in use of my shift. You, who just got to the hemicycle, are not in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u38	Quiet. No dialogue, Mr. Tellado, let me have a dialogue with Mr. Beiras. Sir Beers, be quiet, please. Go ahead, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u39	Finally, we are not going to go into the concrete articulation of the bill, indicating that from the People's Parliamentary Group we understand that its initiative, of course, introduces a lot of doubts from the technical-legal point of view and that its group, of course, can take this initiative to the Congress of Deputies. Let us be careful if the Socialist Group in the Congress of Deputies deals with this; since today we will be careful. Of course, we believe that it is not up to this House to present this initiative to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies, since it is a matter of legislation which is the sole competence of the State, and we believe that it is therefore not up to the Parliament of Galicia to take this proposed bill into consideration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u40	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, author of the bill, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u41	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the parliamentary groups who said they were going to vote in favour. Secondly, I mean several things, for these beautiful and hyper-intelligent pearls that have just offered us here the Voice Lord of the People's Party. First of all, you say Galicia has no jurisdiction to be able to require the State to amend a state law affecting us. First, you are calling incompetent the services of this House, which admitted it through the possibility of this initiative. That's it, the first one. [[Applause]] And they deserve respect, and, for their part, they deserve an apology. Secondly, you're saying that Galicia has no jurisdiction to require the Spanish State to amend a state law affecting us. So that's your vision, the vision of the People's Party, of which is the position of our Autonomous Community in the world and in the country. Thirdly, Mr. Tellado, your legal rigor is more than known to you personally. And the rigor that the State Government had in saying – what it is today President of the Government in functions – that they were only "plastilin's bats" there is no need for me to say it here. That's rigour. It's just hills. [[Applause]] I'm going to say it even gracefully and intertwined: it was just "plastyline threads." And thirdly, you know very well that the Prestige problem arose because the tugs agreed – you, by the way – on a matter of money, to sail the ship from side to side for fifteen days. That was the source of the problem. And fourthly, you're calling the former prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia incompetence and calling the prosecutor of the environment specialist, who led... [[Murmurs.]] President, when he intervened, I did not interrupt him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u42	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u43	I'm asking for the support of the presidency... and I didn't interrupt it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u44	You really didn't, but there were certain interruptions. That's good; it's good that there are no interruptions in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u45	But I ask him, as I didn't interrupt him, he doesn't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u46	You're right; therefore, I pray you don't interrupt each other or each other, so that this will go well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u47	Thank you, President. And you're also calling the environment prosecutor incompetent, who took the Prestige affair to the Provincial Court of the Crown and made statements that I'm going to read to him and then lend him. I could go talk to him and ask him. His name is Álvaro García Ortiz. And Álvaro García Ortiz said the following – he read it in Spanish, because it is written in Spanish – "There are harmed people who have collected through state compensation decrees and feel satisfied; others, who have collected a part through Fidac; some, who have not been recognized as they wanted; and others who are in the cause as purely harmed. And then there are administrations. The path to fixing compensation will be long; it is difficult to set a deadline after the previous thirteen years. Basically, the bulk of these compensations will be for administrations, but there are also private damages that claim significant amounts. The Prosecutor's Office has set the amount quantified to EUR 4.4 billion. Exhausting the policy is viable, although overcoming damage, an environmental catastrophe such as that of the Prestige, will never be possible. A procedural system that allows a case to take 13 years and that has still been tried is a bad remedy for disasters of this nature." Then I'll give it to you, and I can give you your phone as well. You call the Prosecutor's office here in Santiago, and talk to him, because for his judicial rigor it is essential that he start to learn a little legal rigor. By the way, there are possible compensations, which would amount to EUR 1,468.70 million, which can be claimed from the insurer P, also from the shipowner, also from Fidac, and also well below those four thousand and peak million euros that the Prosecutor estimated should be the vinification of the Prestige. You, in your position, the only thing you are telling us here – in addition to all the boundaries you have said before – is that you are incompetent in managing the country today and at that time the Prestige catastrophe, and you, besides – you personally – have just missed the thousands of volunteers who have come to clean our backs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u49	...and the thousands of people who went out on the street claiming justice and fair compensation. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. We are discussing the following legislative text. Debate and vote of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ for the transfer of ownership and competences of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u51	No amendments were tabled. The president of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Works, Public Affairs, Environment and Services has the floor for the presentation of the Committee's Ditame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u52	Good morning. This bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organ of the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego in the Register of Parliament on 15 December 2014, with a registration agreement number 31372. The Bureau of Parliament on 16 December 2014, after its admission through it, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia. The plenary session of 29 September 2015 took into account the above-mentioned unanimous proposal. Even so, the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 6 October 2015, agreed to open the deadline for the submission of amendments to the joint, which ended on 26 October 2015 with the formulation of an amendment to the authorship of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia. And, after the hearing of the Speaker's Board, he assigned his proceedings to Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, a commission which took place at the meeting on 3 December 2015 to designate the following speakers: For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia: Don Alejandro Gómez Alonso, holder, and Don Jesús Goldar, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia: Mr Raul Fernández Fernández, holder, and Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, holder, and Mr. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left: Don Antón Sánchez García, holder, and Manuel Fajardo Recouso, alternate. And by the Joint Parliamentary Group: Mrs. Consuelo Martínez García, holder, and Mrs. Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, alternate. The following meeting, held on 1 February, issued the corresponding report after the Advisory Session of the Pénencia on 25 January 2016. Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on 4 March, unanimously approved the statement I am presenting. This bill, preceded by the corresponding explanatory statement, consists in addition to 2 articles, as well as 4 additional provisions and a final one. It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure, in particular with the approval, if any, of this Parliament's bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, an organic transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u53	Thank you, Mr. Novoa. The role of the parliamentary groups in setting the position on the dictatorship. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. First of all, I would like to say that if we are going to vote in favour of this ruling drawn up by Commission 2nd on the Proposal for a Law, to present before Congress, in Madrid, an organ for the transfer of the title and powers of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. But I would also like to comment that in the committee itself we did not agree with the amendment tabled by the People's Group, with the elimination of the first paragraph of the draft statement of grounds, which said: "The management of this self-saver by the State is a cause of controversy, not only because of the abusive charges, but also because of the deterioration and poor service provided by the concessionaire, with the complicity of the central government." We hope from the Joint Group that, after a number of rejections and excuses from the Central Government, this transfer will take place, so that we can add to what happened with the granting of the A-8 in Euskadi in 1999, and that we can thereby remedy all the weeds and the ills that this highway carries. We understand that the highway, which is the main route practically of the Galician geography, which vertebrates the territory, especially the Atlantic provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra, and which passes through 5 of the 7 cities of Galicia, is very important; in fact, it is where the whole economic and social theme is developed, especially because of this imbalance that we have within the territory of Galicia. We understand that this is an unsustainable path, because there is no alternative at the moment; we still lack enough to reach the vertebration of the territory. This route, which came into operation in the 1970s, remains the main infrastructure, and it seems to us to be inconceivable that we still have a concession period of 75 years. It is also true that unfortunately in Galicia we also have another highway, which is the A-53, which goes from Santiago to the top of Santo Domingo, in Dozon, which also has a 75-year payment scheme. It must be said that other highways of the generation of Galicia, which came into operation in the 1970s, at the end of this decade, will no longer be paid, as is the highway of Andalusia, that of Burgos and that of the Mediterranean. But here we're still going to stay long enough, until the year 2048, and we think it's all right now, that we have to make sure. One of the reasons for this long duration of concession is that it's one of the most profitable highways in the state. They take advantage of the lack of infrastructure that we have and we suffer all the Galicians and the Greeks. We have a forced marriage – because we were not asked – between the Greek society and the Audasa itself. In 2003, with the Government of Aznar, this concession was extended. It must be said that this company, which had been rescued in the 1970s by the oil crisis, sold itself to one of its "friends" at that time, which was Sacyr-Vallehermoso, although today it is in the hands of the Itinerus group. We understand that the service providing this highway is very poor, with prohibitive prices that are a robbery in every rule and caused a great download of users and users. We understand that there is also a very important lack of supervision and maintenance. There's a too controversial reduction in the staff of the workers themselves, which is reduced to a number of nearly 20 years ago, when the highway itself increased its profit by almost 170 percent. And there's a big one, I don't know if it's forgotten, almost intentional: that you don't take into account the climatic characteristics of the land itself. I think the central government like it's all about, doesn't take into account that it rains here, that there's ice, that there's sage here, that there's snow here. Even lack of maintenance, and even what the floor itself is if you are replacing with non- draining asphalt. There is even a great unconsciousness in which the topic of the environment also enters, which are almost guilty of the implementation of the famous Pampa grass. We understand that there is a lack of adequacy to the circumstances, especially in what are the exits and entrances that serve the big cities. Important dates or punctual times are not often taken into account in this type of lock. We understand that it should be within the contract of the concession itself – which is not currently included – the obligation to raise barriers in the event of a blockage of rows of kilometres, which does not happen here. They've always been given a lot of attention and it's never been sanctioned, it's all right here! It's also very serious that many transport professionals are forced to use other alternatives for prohibitive prices, especially this line that vertebrates the north and the south of the territory and even connects with Portugal. The reduction in speed, which is another of the features that happens in many entry blocks to some cities, like Vigo, for example. A high-performance track with features that don't have a track like a road. And it has also been obsolete since the 1970s – what I was talking about before – in the entrances and exits; practically it does not serve most of the villages it passes through. The rest areas are another story, because it has nothing to do with... If you travel across Europe, this is a third-worldist. So, by all of these features, it seems incredible to me that today there were only words and no glimpses of this company. Since 2011, the tariffs of the fee have risen, there has been a reduction in traffic turnover. In recent years it is true that rates have not gone up, because there has not been an increase in users and users either. But if there was an increase in the roads that were a bit the alternative, both the N-550 – which goes from Coruña to Tui – which has important traffic peaks especially in relation to the points of toll, such as Sigüeiro and Caldas de Reis; even the alternative of Ferrol to Coruña, which is the N-651, especially at its passage through Cabanas. And we also see that it remains one of the most expensive – as I said before – of the state, behind two Catalans. We understand that there is a great disillusionment, and one of the last steps that the Ministry of Development has taken was to force the transport sector to travel through the highways to get back a little what the tax revenues are. It also says that there was as certain pacts a little behind other local administrations, as the blackmail of enlargement of what was the exit of the Crown, with which one wanted to compensate an increase of that rate with the condition of enlargement; it was an increase of 1.5 over the next 20 years. We understand that this is really not a legal problem, but a problem of political will. If we understand that it is feasible, because we already have some case, some precedent, and we understand that the State has to assume the economic obligations. And if I understand that we have to agree on the rescue and the granting of the highway to return it to the public domain. So we're going to vote that it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u56	Good morning to all and to all. The next month is going to be 37 years of the first AP-9 entry, between Santiago norte and A Barcala. It's 37 years of a story that has to do with the outrage of a people, with the continued theft of workers and workers and also of the public archives. With how continuous governments have been using AP-9 as a mechanism for providing finance and economic capacity to private companies that today continue to bleed not only through the public administration through the burdens in the shadows, but also the set of workers and professionals who are forced to use one of the most expensive highways not only of the state as a whole, but also of Europe as well. This is so much so that, if we are able to see the title of this road, we see as a road that we have already paid the Greeks more than once, today at its 45% is owned by an American vulture fund that is capable, in addition, of being the same vacuum fund that bought the mortgages of tens of thousands of citizens of this country and also of the state's whole through Bankia. So today our highway mostly belongs to an American vulture bottom that's throwing people who can't afford their mortgages out of their homes. So we are faced with one of the most absolute atrocities in the history of this country; for an element that is fundamental not only to the mobility of people, of commodities, but to our economy, which means that it is the only road of link between the north and the south with criteria of security, capacity and time, it turns out that it is being used by an empty background. A government that delivers a fundamental infrastructure to an empty background, how can it be understood? Well, like a government that feeds the vultures. A government that converts each one of the people who uses this highway into food for that vacuum bottom, into elements of economic extortion for that vacuum bottom. So the first thing we have to say is that we have to support this initiative, but we have to support it with the aim of being able to restore to the public an infrastructure that must never cease to be public. In case this wasn't enough daring, what's more daring is that the whole of Itinere has rated this bus for 2,000 million euros, and that 25% of this bus belongs to Abanca. What a chance!, 2,000 million euros of valuation, 9,000 million euros delivered from the whole of all the Greeks and the Greeks to Banca so that, in return, he can continue exploiting this highway and, as I say, stealing directly from each of us. So in economic terms, there's no justification for the highway not being Welsh and Germans. You can't explain from the political ethics that this highway continues to be part of those who stole from this country. On the one hand, those who caused the financial crisis, and on the other, those empty funds that continue to bleed each one of the people of the whole state through the highways, through the mortgages and all the possible mechanisms that made this crisis mean the greatest attack on the economic and social conditions of the social majority. But after all this outrage, do we have a bus that meets the necessary conditions? What can it be used? After all this outrage, we have the most expensive beaches in the whole state. Today to go from Tui to Coruña costs 17.85 euros, an absolute barbarity! I mean, it's cheaper today to catch a plane in Lavacolla and go to Frankfurt, which is worth 14.99, than to move from Tui to Coruña. In economic terms, one cannot understand this situation, unless political action is dedicated to draining money from all those who make us more difficult from day to day. But not only that, it's an outrage for the workers who have to use it as the only daily alternative to go to their jobs. Tens, thousands of workers have to use that highway to go to their jobs every day. I put an example: King's Stantiago Caldas of Compostela, a stretch used by public professionals, by workers who have their job in Santiago, 7.10 euros go and return every route. In other words, in many cases the cost of this highway is about 20% of a family's monthly income. So this whole process of being able to drain public money to private companies means poverty, it means spolian of our citizens as a whole. But it's also allowed real aberrations: continuing restraints without anyone doing anything. Can't they manage and can't detect those moments of peaks of use on the highway to be able to absorb this situation of peaks of increase in use? Well, year after year, these tails are continuously produced without anyone doing anything. That's right, Feijóo, that Feijóo who now says he's going to go to the private company -- maybe he's going to the private company because he knows that when one loses the self-government, he gets all the shit going on, maybe that's his goal of going to the private company, he says yes, he's going to take action. But we'll see again when Holy Week comes, when the summer comes, how these tails will be repeated. But not only that, but we're not even able to generate jobs in an infrastructure that would be able to give a lot of jobs to this country. 2.5 % of jobs are lost each year in this infrastructure. Because they're able to eliminate jobs to introduce cash machines that all they mean is to leave families without their jobs. And what does the Government do to eliminate all this, to work against it? Statements, statements after statements. In 2007, Feisóo in this same gallery demanded that the Joint Constituency be restored to Galicia; also in 2007 they were addressed to the Government of the State for this to be a reality. Moreover, in 2009 they put in their program that was a priority goal to recover this motorway to Galicia. And what have they done since 2009 to this day? Absolutely nothing. Institutional declaration following institutional declaration. We therefore hope that what is adopted today in this Parliament will serve something, whatever the Government of the People's Party usually does or the bipartisanism of this country, which are hypocritical political actions. To approve initiatives that know they won't come out of any drawer, that they won't have any practice for the entire population of this country. So today, from this rostrum, we demand that we not only stay in the adoption of this very necessary initiative, but take the necessary steps to make it a reality. No excuses, no excuses! It's not worth what the Socialist Party ministers say, like Mr. Pepe Blanco, or the People's Party ministers, who is a highway of public interest because it is of an international nature, and therefore cannot be done. You are in breach of this country's Statute of Self-Government, which says that it must be the Greek character of this highway. It's a lie that it's international because it doesn't reach Portugal, because in Portugal it's already A-55, it's not AP-9. So you're not even honest with their reality. It gives them the same way as breaking the laws, it's obvious. Today we had the misfortune of losing Rita Barbera's presence while we were in this Parliament, and it is shown how the People's Party understands what the law is and how it understands that the law is above all. That's why they force citizenship to comply with the law, but the People's Party where it governs, and also in its private sphere, continues to fail. So today we've only come here to ask them to comply with the Statute of Self-Government. We are so radical from AGE that our goal is to comply with the Statute of autonomy and to recover an infrastructure that must never have been from the state and, of course, it must never have been private. But besides, right now, there are real serious problems that need to be solved. Tens of judgments against AP-9 are collected because of lack of control of AP-9 accesses, the use of roadblocks, the use of draining asphalt that causes continuous and therefore also dead exits. There are judgments already in the Courts of Caldas, Vilagarcia, Vigo, which condemn AP-9 for the lack of security. We'll have to say something, see if we all know what's going to happen to Rande's bridge, because it's been over a year without knowing what to do with Rande's bridge. Maybe the problem is much more serious than they're telling us. Or what's going on with those hundreds of neighbors who have to concentrate almost every day on Chapel to defend their rights. In order to meet their demands as regards expropriations or, for example, that a highway does not end the lives of schoolchildren in a country, who are being attacked in their day-to-day lives because they live with traffic that makes it impossible for them to have their classes in terms of dignity. So it's time to take a step forward. Let's get back to the country on the highway, and let's step back to what's ours: we can't keep paying for something that doesn't make any sense. You see, the multinationals themselves recognize that the value of this infrastructure that's going to be released up to 2048 is 2,000 million, but the row below recognizes that they're going to enter 9.500 million. It's a breakdown, it's a timo, it's a real barbarity that can only be agreed if those who rule us don't rule for the social majority, but for those private companies that the President of the Government will eventually arrive, by the way, in his last term of office. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u57	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. For the Galego Nationalist Block, AP-9 is an all-engraving symbol for the Greeks and the Greeks, and also to what extent the privatizations were a scam. It's a mess because we don't understand why the Greeks and the Greeks have to pay for 75 years the fees of AP-9; a political decision taken by the governments of the People's Party. We understand that this is a looting of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks, which we have the highest rates despite the fact that we have the lowest wages. This is the justice they rule us with from Madrid. We welcome that for the first time in this Parliament we are addressing the question of the transfer of AP-9 by formally requesting, through a proposal for a bill, that this be of Greek ownership, and it will be the first time in the history of this Parliament that, as an institution, we are taking this step forward; something which, of course, did not concern the governments of the People's Party during these years, because we understand that it is basic for the future of Galicia to break centralism, and we also thank today that all groups are going to support this initiative that I proposed and formulated the Galego Nationalist Block. We believe that it is an important step to increase the political power that we have to have in Galicia and to decide on those matters which are fundamental to our future and which condition, in this case, the mobility of a very important part in our territory. I'm saying this at the same time that I also want you to keep track of the discomfort of the Galician Nationalist Block for the processing of this law. Look, we started the debate on this initiative at a plenary session on 29 September last year. It took six months for this law to be dealt with in the Galician Parliament, despite the fact that there was only one amendment from the People's Group. I think it's all a record and a whole sample of how for the People's Party this wasn't a priority. It is forced, by the BNG initiative, to support this initiative, but for nothing is part of its political priorities. It seems to us that it is, of course, a very clear demonstration of how you view those matters that are fundamental to the country. We are also grateful that today we vote here, but in memory, and the memory of what we are told is that the People's Party very few months ago had the opportunity at the Congress of Members and Members to take a step to make the transfer a reality, because in the Congress, in May, at the end of May, this very initiative that we are currently discussing in the German Parliament was debated and, unfortunately, where the decision had to be taken, the People's Party voted against. We believe that we must end this double game and this double morale with the interests of our country. It is not lawful to say something here and to do otherwise in Madrid, because that's all that tells us is that the People's Party betrays Galicia when it has the opportunity to defend our interests and, in this case, to increase our self-government. However, we are grateful that this Parliament is now going to support the initiative formulated by the Galego Nationalist Block, because, as we say, it is an important step forward to end the aggravating and looting of AP-9. We advocate the ability to decide on those matters which are fundamental in the articulation of the country; for, in this case, we understand that, in order to achieve a communication policy of the country itself, not having the ownership of AP-9 is an important problem. We also believe that we must end up with a management that made the Government of the State, which was clearly always contrary to the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks, especially what privatization meant and also the fees. We are surprised that the only amendment presented by the People's Parliamentary Group to this initiative had been to eliminate in the explanatory statement the reference to which fees were an abuse and to which there was mismanagement by the Government of the State. It would be nice if today the spokesperson for the People's Group had told us if you like the fees for AP-9 and if you think the state is managing this infrastructure well. We say that the fees are a real abuse, which is not from receipt that since 2003 while the Greeks and the Greeks have less and less purchasing power the fees have increased by 50% and that they now come here to delete that part which, I say, is not valuable, is simply descriptive of what is the reality and the management that the Government of the State has made in relation to it. We understand that the fees that we pay for AP-9 in practice are a traffic tax for this country, a traffic tax that we pay for all the Greeks and the Greeks and that has an impact that a very large part of the workers in this country cannot cope with the payment of the fees, they have to travel through pathways that are safer, slower, and therefore they are also increasing insecurity in the road. We understand that this is a tax that, in addition, only benefits a private concessionaire; a concessionaire who is doing business with a highway that crosses the most populated area of our country and that crosses the area with greater economic activity; a tax therefore unfair, regressive and that constitutes a disaster for the development of our country. It's undoubtedly an AP-9 paradigm of a centralist model and the privatization scam. We see how there is a model that clearly, in the articulation of communications in our country, does not think about what the internal needs of the Greeks and the Greeks are, but about how to get to Madrid first. We saw it on the highways, and it repeats itself in the railway system. It seems to us that it is essential to break up with that centralist and radial communication scheme in Galicia, it seems to us a nonsense that is cheaper to go to Madrid than to be able to travel to the most populated part of our country. Today, to go from Ferrol to Madrid, pay 16 euros. To go from Ferrol to Tui we pay 20 euros. It's a real barbarity, and it's a demonstration of what the state of Galicia's needs is. The serious thing is that all of this has been done with the convolence of the Government of Galician Union. It seems to us, in that sense, that we have a lot to move forward and that we have to make a significant change in the management of AP-9. For the Galician Nationalist Block the request for transfer means having political power to change a situation that clearly is a comparative aggravating and a disaster for our country's development. We think we have to walk to an AP-9 free of fees, because this highway is more than paid and requisitioned by the Greeks and the Greeks. It is an insult to the intelligence of our people who are told that they have not yet amortised the concessionaire the expenses made on this highway. Since 1979, the concessionaire has raised EUR 2.441 million, leaving the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks. They're very important resources. Every year, even in the years of the economic crisis, the concessionaire had benefits while the Greeks and the Greeks had salary losses, and they were not made or applied to them a bonus policy that had been, at least, the same as they have other parts of the state. There was a downgrade at the last hour that only affects a stretch and is clearly below that other highways have in the Spanish state as a whole. Why are we discriminated against and discriminated against in this area as well? Why does the People's Party maintain and support a policy that clearly goes against our interests as a people? Well, we say that we don't want a concessionaire or that the Greeks and the Greeks have a penalty and we have to keep paying those fees until August 18, 2043 – August 18, 2043!–. Do you want Galicia, that the Greeks and the Greeks, to continue paying one of the highest tolls in the state? Is it fair that we are going to pay 4 or 5 times the cost of this infrastructure at the expense of the pockets of the Greeks and the Greeks? It seems to us that this is abuse. That is why we say today: we take a first step with the request for transfer, but with this first step we believe that all political groups should commit themselves to the fact that in Madrid, which is where they have to make this decision, if they are going to have the same vote as you have here, because, if not, we will be with a second outrage, the outrage of the lie they've already been used to. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is aware of the debate on this agenda item. We are debating the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2 on the Proposal for a Law, the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, to present before the Congress of Deputies, for the purpose of transferring the title and competences of AP-9 to Galicia. This road infrastructure has been the subject of multiple initiatives and the corresponding debates in this legislation and also in the previous ones; initiatives that have reached tariffs, retentions in pay quarters, enlargements at different points of the network, maintenance and conservation, and benefits, as well as beneficiaries, of its exploitation. The accumulation of initiatives and debates on AP-9 underscores its importance for Galicia and for the Greeks and the Greeks. In fact, the AP-9 motorway turns out to be Galicia's main road of communication and the main road communication axis that connects the north with the south and the south with the north. In itself it puts us at the gates of the Cantabrian Cornix – Asturias, Cantabria, Basque Country, France, Europe – and at the gates of Portugal on the coast. It is located in the area of residence around 60% of the population of Galicia and – around 70% – of Galicia's economic activity. It is able to relate directly to the 5 of the 7 main cities of Galicia: Ferrol, La Coruña, Santiago, Pontevedra and Vigo. In its long journey it channels and supports the intense road traffic of cities, villages and peoples of the Atlantic Strip, even it turns out to be the confluence line of social, commercial, economic, industrial movements, etc. The AP-9 therefore vertebrates communication between the main western cities of Galicia and plays a decisive role in the integration and articulation of the urban system of Galicia, boosting mobility and ordering and generating road communication systems. AP-9 turns out to be an indispensable artery of connection and articulation of our territory; a strategic infrastructure, vital for Galicia, as well as a fundamental instrument of social and economic vertebration. The Atlantic Highway must fully carry out this role in order to put it to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks, not to the service of other interests at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks. AP-9 was born with the vocation of being a permanent opportunity of growth for Galicia. Today it's still essential, but it doesn't fulfill that role. That role of generating added value to which beneficiaries were users changed from recipients by political decisions of the People's Party governments. The social perception is that this opportunity for Galicia that represents AP-9 changed by political decisions in a exclusively economic opportunity for the concessionaire. AP-9 is losing that attraction and its role as a growth lever. Each past year is no longer an added value for society and for the economy of the Greeks and the Greeks and is becoming an inscrutable burden for families and businesses: charges imposed by the current management of AP-9 to fatten their profits; permanent ups and downs of the fees, even the VAT; different prices on the various sections with a clear concern; and no type of tariff subsidy depending on the times or seasons of the year. The Ministry itself places AP-9 as one of Spain's most expensive motorways for the different categories of vehicles. Thus, for category 3 vehicles, it has the highest usage prices in Spain; for category 2 vehicles, it has the third most expensive prices in Spain and for category 1 vehicles, it has the second most expensive prices in Spain. The final result of this AP-9 management model is conclusive. Just two data. In the state network, the average cost is 0.035 euros per kilometer, i.e. 3.5 cents per kilometer. In AP-9, the cost is 0.062 euros/kilometre; that is, 6.2 cents per kilometer. This means that AP-9 is 4.6 times more expensive than the other highways in the state. The full AP-9 journey, from Ferrol to Tui, has a price for light vehicles of around 20 euros, and more than 44 euros for heavy vehicles. Ladies and gentlemen, AP-9 is a vital road infrastructure for Galicia's growth that has lost its dynamizer role when applying a management model that reduces the benefits of users in favour of the concessionaire. With this model, the Galicians and the Greeks always lose, we lose competitiveness, and the concessionaire always wins. The Socialist Group has repeatedly expressed itself and is clearly in favour of the transfer of the title and competences of AP-9 to the Galician Union. We believe that this self-sustainment highway, which it has travelled throughout the territory of the Autonomous Community, should be assumed by the Galician Union to exploit its full potential for our country's benefit. We believe that it is possible to transfer AP-9, allow the Spanish Constitution and allow the Galician Statute. We believe that this transfer is necessary, based on the multiple arguments that we have seen bringing up the different voices from the beginning of the processing of this bill, to play a central role as a growth bench of Galicia. And we believe that the transfer of AP-9 is appropriate, even more at present and even in the future, to place the value added to the service of the Greeks and the Greeks. The Socialist Group will, of course, support the Commission's statement 2a. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Infrastructure and Living Counsellor, very good day to all. Allow me, Mrs. Pontón, from my consideration, to make a little incision before you begin; a brief, very brief incision. You have the assurance that if this transfer from AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia was not of special interest to this parliamentary group, this debate would not be taking place at the moment. It would not have been taken into account, it would not have complied with the motion and discussed in the motion, it would not have been drawn up in Commission 2nd of the 4th day and it would not come to the whole debate here today. I think it's good evidence that this parliamentary group, like the Government of Galicia, is interested, and very much, that the transfer of AP-9 to our community takes place as soon as possible. On the substance of the matter, I should like to say that it is up to me in the name of the People's Parliament to defend the political position of our formation in the debate which today comes to the plenary session of this House following its preliminary step by the Commission on the 4th day, in which the ruling on this matter was finally adopted. As your lordships know, during the course of the proceedings, the People's Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to a part of the content of the explanatory statement which, even with the vote against the opposition groups, has finally been approved. This amendment, for those of their honourable ladies who do not know it, intended and succeeded in removing from the text of the explanatory statement – which, as they know, lacks normative value and, therefore, law-strengthening – an obvious political qualification or judgment of pesorative and inconceivable value from the point of view of the legislative technique, which was neither appropriate nor appropriate, nor much less fair, in our view. It is not possible that in a consolidated parliamentary democracy, in a country called modern, it would remain at the forefront of the changing majority of the introduction or not in the explanatory statement of the laws that promulgated from political criticism to the management of a previous or present government, even though that criticism was legitimate in the oral debate and even in writing. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, if we used the explanatory statements of the laws to charge against the political adversary on the basis of who you are at every moment, most parliamentarians who approve it, we would turn one of the most important functions of a legislative chamber into a bad example of democratic coexistence and of what I disagree with. Except, of course, that we want to emulate mayors and municipal groups that, far from practicing measurement and responsibility in their management, devote their time declaring people ungrateful to presidents of governments. If that's what you want, we, this parliamentary group, don't want it, of course. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we had the opportunity to say, at the last meeting of the committee that approved the ruling of this bill, that this parliamentary group was extremely curious, at least, the way in which some political group that was not long ago, when from Galicia was called upon to transfer this route to Madrid, of all that is now said in this House, then there was no listening at least to each other. Don't put that surprise face, Mrs. Pontón, because it's reality; the hemero library is there, the sitting papers of this House are there and everything can be checked out perfectly. We all remember, all your lordships undoubtedly remember Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez and how happy she was every time someone spoke to her about Galicia, or how happy she was when some group that could reprobate her countless behavior with our land, she spoke, they spoke. I now refer to certain nationalist Members in the Congress of Deputies. And so we did, ladies and gentlemen, until then. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to the bottom of the matter, which is what really matters today... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if Mr. Fajardo wants to use my turn. I give it to you, but I don't think it's anticipated, I think, in the regulation that you, at last... I tried to listen to it, as I always do, respectfully, and I see that with you that kind of form and respect doesn't go. No, the truth is not, but good... Mr. Fajardo is like this and we'll forgive him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] To the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, I'm sorry, for nothing. He knows that... finally. If you leave me, Mr. President, I'll follow. Going to the bottom of the matter, we must say that the Greeks know perfectly well that the AP-9 motorway is, since its construction, a state-owned road. And as we know, we also know that the Government of Galicia has an active policy in relation to the same – say what Mrs. Pontón says – which is translated into demand continues to the Ministry of Development of a better service on this path, as well as in the intention of assuming the exploitation of AP-9. It is the bilateral Commission of 2 February 2010, in which the Galician Union already proposed the change of ownership of AP-9, by virtue of the agreement between the two administrations, and the materialization of the transfer, by means of a royal decree of transfer of functions and services and another royal decree of discharge to the State Highway Network. The Government of Spain at that time, as we have already had occasion to recall and today we have reiterated, had responded that it was not the formula provided for by then vigilant Law 25/1998, of July 29, of roads, and therefore was not the competence of the Joint Transfer Commission. The Ministry of Development had also reported that AP-9 is an international route of traffic and a route of access to ports and airports of general interest, so it would be a highway of general interest to the State and should be integrated within its road network. The Galician Union strongly disagreed with the above claims because it understood that AP-9 is not an access to ports or airports of general interest, because it does not serve as access to border crossings, since the concession of AP-9 concludes in the link with A-55 before the border of Portugal, this being precisely the A-55, which reaches that border, and also because it does not link autonomous communities, since its journey is fully developed through Galicia, without continuing towards other territories. Similarly, they must also know that in January 2012 the German Government again formulated the demand for transfer and continues to work on this line. Thus, on January 18, 2014 was published in the Official State Gazette......the announcement – thank you, Mr President – of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Housing State Secretariat, so the public information process of the preliminary version of the 2012-2014 Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan, known by its acronym Pitvi, and its environmental sustainability report began. [[Murmurs.]] At the time, the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Council presented claims on 12 March 2014 on housing, rail infrastructure, intermodal transport and of course also on roads. As far as the policy of tariffs is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have already stated to them, during the discussions in the course of the processing of this bill, that the Government of Galicia has indicated that there are no mechanisms available for citizens to benefit from the infrastructures which have been amortized prematurely, a situation which has also caused significant comparative harm since the moment that there has never been a true model of what should be the network of motorways of tollage. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I also clarify to you the question that you were asking me directly whether or not we are in agreement with the AP-9 fees – if you listen to me, I thank you, but I say the same – you don't listen to me at all. That's a lot of respect for what the People's Parliamentary Group wants and what you practice with us when we finally talk. [[Applause]] I tell you, Mrs Pontón, that this parliamentary group disagrees with the rates of AP-9, which is why it is and is the object of this political group seeking the transfer of this road or motorway. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want Mr. Beers, you can talk, too, I have no drawback. I'm a rookie here and you've been a veteran for many years. If you want to talk, I'll give it to you... if you leave the president, of course. Therefore, I continue. The Galician Council, ladies and gentlemen, is formulating the demand for the transfer of ownership of this highway and will continue to do so until it reaches it, for just as this parliamentary group understands that it is in accordance with the current legislation and understands that it is beneficial for its management, as we have repeatedly told it. In fact, last January 25th was published in the Official Gazette of the State the resolution of the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration with the agreement of the Bilateral Commission for Cooperation and General Administration of the Autonomous State of Galicia for the commencement of negotiations, in order to resolve the discrepancies with regard to several articles, namely 4, 5 and 18, with the first additional provision, with Annex II and with the fifth final provision of Law 37/2015 of 29 September 2015 of roads, appointing for this purpose a working group to propose the solution. I can tell you, if you want, that these allegations were made by the Infrastructure Agency. Basically, those allegations focused on the collision with the autonomic powers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u63	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u64	...in relation to two aspects. Excessive possibilities laid down in the law were considered to be necessary to pass by real decree changes in road ownership, between different administrations without prior agreement, etc. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, ladies and gentlemen, the primordial for the German Government, which always acts, always acts for the benefit of the supreme interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, is that the service of this highway lends itself to the optimal conditions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group hopes that the unanimous approval of this bill today, in the Galician Parliament, will be able to continue its course at the Congress of Deputies and will soon end with the materialization of the transfer of the AP-9 motorway to our community within the shortest possible time. We said 11 days ago, in the last debate of Commission 2a, and today we reaffirm once again, that we wish, the government who governs in this new legislation in Spain, which we solemnly express with the adoption of this bill in this Parliament concludes with the final transfer of the motorway into our community, thereby fulfilling an important objective for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Let us take advantage of it, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u65	Thank you, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u66	... –I have already finished, Mr President – that all parliamentary groups have agreed, even with differences, on such a transcendent topic for the future of the road infrastructures of our land and we will become normal, because then, what is usually extraordinary in the political debate, claiming together the state what we all believe is fair to the Greeks and to Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u67	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. We're passing by, so... [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Jorquera, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u68	Mr President, in order to demand compliance with the Rules of Procedure, and in particular by appealing to Rule 78, which states that in the course of the debate, which has been contradicted in its arguments by another or others of the speakers, you will have the right to reply or correct for a single time and for a maximum of five minutes. We think it's obvious that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u69	Mr. Jorquera, no, there's no such... Mr. Jorquera, sorry, there's no such contradiction because... And you also know that Article 120 exists, which says that when there are no amendments, and there are no particular votes, there is no right to the replica shift. We therefore close this debate here and vote. The explanation of the vote, as there has been an amendment to the agenda, I shall read it. Voting of legislative texts Voting of the consideration of the Bill, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of civil and environmental responsibility and of the Prosecutor's Office. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u70	We are now voting on the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Planning of the Territory, Public Works Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, organic, transfer of the title and competence of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. I remind all of your lordships that, according to Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure, it is required for this most absolute theme. I therefore put this question to the vote. It's a serious matter. Please be quiet. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Proposal for a Law, to present before the Congress of Deputies, organic, transfer of the title and competence of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia. The voting was as follows: it was adopted unanimously, with 72 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u71	Once unanimously adopted, and in accordance with Rule 163.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the House must agree with the absolute majority required by the Regulation in Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure, set the number of Members or Members who will defend themselves in Congress to a maximum of 3. The Bureau, after listening to the Speaker's Meeting at the meeting on 8 March 2016, agreed to propose that three be the number of Members or self-employed in charge of their defence. This proposal is therefore submitted to the House's consent. [[Assentment.]] By consent, we give it for approval. The number of Members should therefore be taken into account by means of a threefold settlement. We will now appoint Members or Members to defend the bill, and this requires a very simple majority in accordance with Rule 163 of the Rules of Procedure. After the deadline for the appointment of Members and Members proposed by the groups, it turned out that it was proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group Mr José Antonio Goldar Güimil, the Socialist Parliamentary Group Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. It's part of the House's consent. [[Assentment.]] By consent, then, they understand themselves designated and appointed to defend the bill before the Congress of Members of Parliament and the related parliamentarians, specifically Mr José Antonio Goldar Güimil, Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and Ms Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. They're designated. There is no objection and therefore this topic is approved. We are now voting on the proposal for a law, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, amending Law 13/2008, of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia. We vote. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. Galician people, amending Law 13/2008 of 3 December 2008 on social services in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; votes against, 2; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. The adoption of this bill is therefore approved. We have finished the voting point here. As the spokespersons have already been informed, we are now debating the point that corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to improve the learning of foreign languages in the education system of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u72	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u73	Thank you, President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. On February 24, the Socialist Party appealed to the Education Adviser on this issue, so all of you will understand that the arguments we are going to use today will be exactly the same. I want to start by telling them that I am absolutely convinced that neither the Greeks nor the whole of Spain are more clumsy than the rest of the European Union's citizens. And if this is what I say, and I firmly believe that it is, how do we explain then the problems that we have in the Greeks and the set of Spanish to learn foreign languages? I said a few days ago to the councillor, in the last plenary, that socialists were bringing this issue up in a totally constructive hurry, and today I tell you all exactly the same, ladies and gentlemen. So, from my humble personal experience as a teacher, I'll try to put the things we understand are doing wrong, but also how we think things could be done better. I want to tell you that in the last few weeks I've talked about this matter with different professionals who teach foreign language classes in our schools, schools and official language schools, in order to be able to share them with all of you here today. I believe to be true if I say that no one doubts that foreign language learning has recently become a fundamental issue for both young people and adults, as I also think that no one doubts whether this learning opens or closes doors for access to the demanding labour market in our times. The Socialist Group, who is seeking above all, ladies and gentlemen, has just been born from that point of view, but to do so without traps, without demagogy and in a spirit of correcting the existing evasive ones, which I honestly believe exist. In a global context where population mobility is increasing, it seems reasonable to think that one of the educational priorities must be that Spanish and Greek youth dominates a first foreign language and at least attains a good level also on a second level, as is true in most European Union countries, countries to which we say we want to imitate. I will not be the one who claims at parliamentary headquarters that the language competence of the student has not been slowly improving in recent times, but it would also be good, ladies and gentlemen, to recognize that there is much way to go. We understand in the Socialist Group that the curricula of our education system must be updated, to avoid repetitive content and to prevent students from having the strange feeling that they are always studying the same. We also understand that oral expression and understanding should be prioritized, and Spanish or Welsh languages should only be used as support for the learning process of foreign languages at very timely times of classes. We also understood that it would be good if there were a greater number of teaching hours devoted to the study of them, and it would also be very convenient for a part of that schedule to be devoted to conversation classes or auditions in small groups. It is therefore necessary to address, ladies and gentlemen, a profound methodological change and attitudes, more focused on all communicative skills and accompanied by the incorporations of ICTs and the different tools point zero. In this sense, I want to remind you that when people are asked to use a number of technology resources like the Internet, they would have to be given a chance to really have those means, and with a quality of service that they don't have right now. And I use it to remember, for the last time in this House, the huge digital divide that exists between the city centers and our rural centers. I honestly believe, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the highlights of our education system is to correct that certain failure of our student in learning foreign languages. We know that our students start early in their English years, but it is neither understandable nor reasonable that, after spending so many hours in their academic life studying a foreign language, they are unable to communicate fluently in the languages they study at the end of their educational stage. We must therefore look critically and constructively at the causes of this certain linguistic failure, as well as at clear alternatives for language learning in the Spanish and German educational system to be at the same level as the rest of the European educational systems, to which we say we want to assimilate ourselves. We all know that foreign languages are commonly used in business, leisure travel, politics, research and, as otherwise, also in the workplace. And how sad it is to see on many occasions our political leaders travel the world forward and are unable to communicate with their interlocutors without the presence of interpreters! They say the most prestigious researchers that it is convenient to start with the study of the first foreign language at very early ages, mainly in childhood education, when children behave like real receptor sponges to know. And we're not failing at that, ladies and gentlemen. I think what's missing is the empowerment of a real linguistic immersion, so that language study can be successful in this country. We must therefore seek that in language classes the only language vehicle is the foreign language, and for that the teacher must have the right level of training, a training that must be constantly updated. And here is another of the obligations that must be met by the administration itself: to ensure the necessary permanent recycling of teachers who teach in foreign languages. Another detail that deserves our attention, ladies and gentlemen, has to do with the student's own attitude and their families on this issue, because they have to assume that in foreign language classes the language to be used must be essentially the foreign language itself and not criticize the teacher when that is done. In the same way, it is absolutely key, ladies and gentlemen, to make students and their families understand the importance that knowledge of foreign languages is important today for the promotion of working life. And here comes a new task that must take over the Administration... – Mr. Tellado, thank you – and here appears – I insist – a new task that must take over the Administration itself. It's not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to teach a foreign language with guarantees in classes that surround or exceed thirty students per class. In the same way, it's not possible to properly learn languages by giving so much weight to grammar and completely leaving aside oral skills. And a clear mistake of this that I've just said, ladies and gentlemen, is the exam of access to the university we've had for a lot of years now, because to get through that exam just have knowledge of grammar, lexicon and do a little writing, and therefore the professor prepares just for that his student. Another aspect to underline would be the proper use of public television itself. It would be in this case to boost the emission of a percentage of programmatic content in other languages, so that society, and essentially the most children, would be getting used to watching some television programs in original versions. In the rest of Europe – and as an example of the Portuguese and French neighbours – it is quite common to watch films, TV series or cartoons in the original version. I am convinced, ladies, that this would undoubtedly help the smaller ones, for at those ages it is when it is easier to learn a foreign language. And if we really want to compare ourselves with some countries in Europe like France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland or Germany, we'll realize that we have a big way to go. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to change the situation of foreign language teaching in our country, we must all make an important effort and change of attitude: administration, teacher, student and family. So let us now come with that battery of positive proposals which the Socialist Parliamentary Group brings here today. We start by ensuring that teachers imparting foreign languages to necessary continuing training to update their knowledge, and nothing better for that than empowering and financing stays in foreign countries and exchange programs, and when that is not possible, looking for other ways to form them. We provide students with no economic resources scholarships for language immersion stays in foreign countries during vacation periods. We increase the educational hours of foreign languages and allow a part of that time to be dedicated to conversational and auditory classes in multimedia classes. Let's make it easier to unfold in small groups in foreign language classes and not allow massed classes. We update curricula and potentiate oral contents in them. We provide educational centres with the technological tools necessary to be able to impart foreign language classes with guarantees. We have been able to study two foreign languages, as is true in most European countries. We continue to increase the presence of conversational assistants in educational centers, and do so by controlling their work rigorously, and also trying to get to the first stages, because that's exactly where the student has more ease to learn a foreign language. Let's keep increasing bilingual sections, but let's do it by enhancing quality and not quantity. Let's not allow them to share foreign languages with the abuse of caring, non-specialist teachers, or in classes of more than thirty students. We provide multimedia classrooms and allow those who have them to use them. We expand the number of centres that give in Galicia the international baccalaureate and Erasmus scholarships. Ladies and gentlemen, the teaching and learning of languages in Galicia and Spain has had to be solved, to take us out once in a while for all that sambenith we've been dragging for a long time that a Spanish or a Greek are those who spend their entire lives trying to learn English without achieving it. And just for that and for that, today I ask for your support for this motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u74	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u75	Thank you, Madam President. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization places language education at the centre of its education mandate. In Resolution 30C/12, adopted by the General Conference of 1999, it considered multilingual education the only way to respond to the demands of participation at the global and national levels and recommended creating the conditions for an international social, intellectual and communication environment that favours multilingualism and promote, through multilingual education, democratic access to knowledge for all people. The Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity, adopted in 2001, in Article 6 of the Action Plan for its implementation, defines the criteria for the use of languages in the field of education. First of all, with respect to the mother tongue, linguistic diversity at all levels of teaching and the promotion of learning of several languages from an early age. The educational reform that advanced the learning of foreign languages was LOE in 2006, which came later in 2013 by LOMCE, in which it also includes in its principles promoting multilingualism. The reality is that in a new edition of the Eurobarometer Spain is positioned as the second country with the lowest level in Europe behind Hungary. According to the study, only 22% of Spaniards and Spaniards over 18 years old dominate the language and 7% ensure that they have an advanced level. An average student ends the bachelor's degree with a more or less acceptable level, but that level is not the right level to develop at work. Madrid and Catalonia are the communities where English is best spoken, and Galicia says we're a little over the Spanish media, but we have to comment on the great water that exists with language learning. We need to solve some of these problems in a teaching that begins in the second cycle of childhood education. In Galicia in 2014, there were 85,000 pupils and students learning languages in 220 multilingual centres, with the Government-led foreign language empowerment plan. The quality of the study of English as the first foreign language is resonated by lack of practice. It is essential to teach language by a specialist, who has a continuing education, with a ratio of students and students reduced, for better attention, and to develop in an optimal condition the practice, which is the greatest shortage. The Internet has revolutionized the world. Many content is danced from that digital medium, immediately and by the possibility of selecting various content. But this doesn't reach the whole world in private, because the Internet is still a luxury for many people. Today technology and languages go hand in hand. We speak of quality rather than quantity in the number of centres offering multilingualism, homogenizing the whole territory, without creating evas depending on where you live. In Galicia the model that leaves is a little bit by the law marked by the Ministry, although later, within the state as a whole, the different autonomous communities adapt them according to what they consider most appropriate. Here, well, Abalar repository went to bilingual section centers, multilingual center network, communicative language updating courses, conversation assistant programs, visiting teachers, and also what the so-called dives are. Within the proposals related to language teaching, within the organisational measures, it is thus recommended as an auxiliaries of conversation, extension of this figure to all educational centres, but if more funding is needed, because often it is not taken into account at which center it is assigned, and it is often a participation, it is reduced to something very significant and sometimes even ridiculous, because the number of students, courses and groups are not taken into account. Flexibility of class groups. Consideration is also given to organizing homogeneous groups to promote real progress from the initial level of each student. Increased oral interaction in class, and favoring weekly breaks, and increasing the time of dedication to real communication by the student. Increase the models of orality and quality, contrasted in all centers. And it's very important to coordinate the teacher's team, especially all teachers who teach in English, and those who teach in other foreign languages, not only in English, but also in the foreign language itself, and above all coordination in the same courses, at the same levels as a center. Greater autonomy and flexibility and to optimize resources and to use measures at your disposal. We understand that much more resources are missing, don't we, especially in the ICT sector? And we also consider it important to evaluate the centers, don't we? If it's working well, both internal, external and self-assessment, as an improvement. We also understand that within the linguistic requirements, in access to teaching, it is not equal in all autonomous communities. In Galicia you can teach with a B2 language competition, although the best would be a C1. It is understood that in the comprehensive language learning programme that the Ministry of Education sets up by 2020 the level of the teacher who will provide a foreign language subject is one C1. We understand that it is very important to internationalize centres, to increase trade between countries in a more general way. The increase in the presence of foreign language in even extra-school and complementary activities in schools, as well as in school libraries, and an integral and affective education. We will support the motion presented by the PSOE, because we consider it very important that language learning is fundamental, and a vertebrate axis, especially in development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u77	...by the person at educational, cultural and labor level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u78	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr Vázquez Díaz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all and to all. I believe that the arguments of the Socialist Group have become sufficiently clear, both in the past and in this, and for my part I would like to take this opportunity from this House because to undo some myths and some topics about learning foreign languages. With that intention, and if you allow me your lordships, I would like to ask some questions, both to the people in this Chamber and to anyone who might be listening from your home. The first question is, what do you think is the mandatory foreign language for a student in a U.S. school? The answer is none. They have no compulsory foreign language of study at the compulsory stage. The second question is: what do you think of your lordships as the European country where the learning of a foreign language is first started? The answer is Spain, at the age of 3. The third question is which European Union country will start to study a foreign language later? The answer is the United Kingdom, 11 years old; at the age of 11, they start studying a foreign language. The second thing a foreign language starts later is Germany, at the age of 8. And the third one that later starts studying a foreign language is France, at the age of 7. So we should ask ourselves, if for the first power in the world it is not a priority to study a foreign language, if it is not so early for Europe's second power, why is it for Spain? Why is learning English foreign language a national priority? The answer is very simple: the learning of a foreign language, centered almost 100% of cases in the English language, has basically economic and non-pedagogic reasons. This is obvious, this is obvious. So we admit, and I don't argue that economic reasons don't have to be important in developing an education law, but let's think about what stage, when and how you have to assume that economic importance. I would then like to make a question at all that has been said to this point. Is it necessary to convert English into vehicle language in teaching to teach mathematics, physical education? Why is English needed to explain biology in our country? Is that a priority? It doesn't seem to be for other countries, but here it is. From my point of view, this is the fundamental element that justifies the failure of the so-called multilingual model applied in Galicia, which does not have a pedagogical fit – if it has it from an economic point of view, therefore, with purely economic criteria – and which puts the education system at the service and to respond to labour market demands. Here it was said at all times: it's a requirement of the labour market to know English for Spain; of course, for other places, not. And so I wanted you to think about it. Why are we submitting children from 3 years old to English teaching processes using English as a vehicle language, when the result, in addition, is that they start English at 3 years old, they end up in compulsory education at 16 and after 13 years they have no linguistic competence?, when any study can prove that a person in an appropriate learning context and in a communicative approach takes months to learn a language, months to learn a language!, and we haven't achieved it in 13 years. Are we going to follow up on this tagging and framing speech and put marks on the centers? You've become a multilingual center, but what's the point? Let's look at the result, reflect on and think about educational and pedagogical terms to where we're going and what we're doing. The percentage of students who have English as a foreign language in Spain and Galicia is almost 100%, 100%; French, German or Russian are between 0 and 5%. Where are we going? Are we going to an English unilingual model? Because the Greek, of course, does not follow that betting path and priority on the part of the German Government. It's a fallacy to base the quality of teaching, an educational system in learning a foreign language. That may not be the only sign of identity or the only sign to determine quality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u81	But there's something worse, as it is – I say – that branding policy, labeling that has "Abalar center", "multilingual center," and that doesn't hold on to real content. We therefore have no problem in supporting this initiative. We believe that we have to take steps to establish a communicative approach in the classroom, to escape that grammaticalized learning, focused on vocabulary learning, and to walk toward those communicative approaches. We believe that teacher training needs to be improved with stays abroad, not at the Pearls. In all that we agree, there's no problem. But, look!, I just wanted to take this opportunity to put so much emphasis on the gesture and warn that this derives from, of course, from English-speaking countries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u82	You have to finish, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u83	...and from the Central European countries, that Spaniards have failed because we don't know English, that, of course, we can't take it, because we have a language of our own, because we have links with communities where our own language – the language itself – is a language with great potential from a commercial point of view. But it doesn't matter here. And we have the case of the popular legislative initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u85	...Paz Andrade, which is absolutely stagnant. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to those who are visiting us right now and are listening to Parliament. Mr. Docasar, we are facing a motion arising from an interpellation in last plenary session in which you affirmed the importance of the drive to language learning in the public education system in Galicia. It also affirmed the wrong system of education policy of the Union regarding the learning of foreign languages, also the wrong system of multilingualism promoted by the People's Party, and that it was necessary to rethink and improve measures to improve the momentum of foreign language learning policies. I already tell you that the BNG Parliamentary Group supports each of the four statements that you have made. It is very important for us to master foreign languages and to promote them in the public system. BNG has always been seeking to improve language skills, starting with our beloved English language. We've always been for the sake of multilingualism, but not for the fact that we're moving away from our language as a vehicle language from teaching, not for making it a foreign language in our own country, not for making it virtually disappear in childhood education. Secondly, the BNG Parliamentary Group also coincides with the Socialists' Parliamentary Group in the wrong system of education policy in the learning of foreign languages. We understand that this policy is not up to the circumstances and it is not able to overcome a historical deficit – according to the words of the counselor himself in the past plenary – that, despite the numbers he told us here, of hundreds of multilingual centers, of 3,000 bilingual sections, of more than 400 auxiliaries of conversation and I know many formative stays abroad, we are not yet able to communicate fluently at the end of compulsory education. BNG understands that, in order to enhance languages, new educational, modern, effective and rigorous policies are needed on the subject of learning, but also on the subject of teacher training and on the media and resources of public centres themselves. We agree with the Socialist Group also in the wrong plurilingualism system promoted by the Government supported by the People's Party; a system, by the way, that the report of the European Union's Committee of Experts draws attention to saying that the introduction of a third language cannot be at the expense of the language itself, which is the case of Galicia. It is unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the only language in the state that loses speakers. We also agreed with the Socialist Group that there is a need to rethink and improve measures and that there is a great deal to be done to improve language competition in foreign languages. There remains a lot of way, Mr. Docasar, for the normalization of our own language and for expansion, despite an approval here of an ILP that speaks of Portuguese as a sister tongue but we have forgotten it. Surely the BNG Parliamentary Group would provide other solutions other than the twelve that you put forward in this motion. But we, focusing on the main point, are going to support this motion, since we understand that the Greek administration must first of all be the one to ensure constant and necessary continuing training of the professor of foreign languages. For us language learning, and that is of quality, needs, of course, a specialist professor with a good level of training, constant updating and permanent recycling. And the Galician Union you know that it's dedicated to training 1.8 million, 44% – almost 45% – less than the two-party government dedicated in 2009. 1.8 million training, about 5 euros per teacher. Of course, this is not a model for making an educational system for teaching foreign languages of quality. And a second very important point: we need to reduce the ratios in language classes and make it easier to unfold. The whole educational community claims it. With classes of 30, with classes of 25 and more students, it's not possible to study foreign languages with quality parameters. We support that the ratios of 15 pupils in children's studies do not pass, that in primary school they do not exceed 20 and that in the bachelor's degree they do not exceed 25. Well, ladies and gentlemen, more training and the lowest ratios. I have already finished, saying that, indeed, there are other important measures, such as reorienting the curriculum to deepen understanding and oral expression. It is also necessary to increase the scholarships, correct – of course – the digital divide, support for linguistic immersions, support for school exchanges. And for all those reasons, we are going to vote for this Socialist Group initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u88	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr. Sobrino Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Allow me to license: who has seen you and who sees you! Now we're almost all in favour of multilingualism, the Abalar, the digitization of classes, the electronic book... we're in favour of everything, but we've always been against it. Well, we're moving forward. We're moving forward, Mr. Docasar. That, well, the Socialist Party dances at the top in education issues is no news. It's not a new one because, of course, it has demonstrated it throughout its history of government in this country. But what if it is already a new novice – worth redundancy – is to fall into contradiction at the same plenary session, which was what happened at the last plenary session. In the morning, more hours for the Greek, the Greek preferred language, supporting the initiatives of the other political groups, presenting initiatives for more hours for the Greek. In the afternoon, more time for English, to enhance foreign languages... well, 25 hours of class we're going to have more a week because I don't know where we're going to get time from. [[Laughter]] But, well, in any case, welcome to the concert, welcome to the concert, to see if we're all able to break what Mr. Tourinño called " pending matter" pending matter, and that he supported precisely a multilingual model, based on English, Greek and Spanish, and that it cost him work here. [[Murmurs.]] I know well that if you were the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group at other times, we wouldn't be as we are, sure, Mr Docasar, because you are master of foreign languages and you know perfectly well what you're talking about, how I am, master of foreign languages, and I know what we're talking about. What I'm telling you is that, please, one day in time and get in touch with those experts who have advised you, and please contact them with Mr Vázquez, because he has taught us today a lesson, which is difficult to qualify, which is difficult to qualify, on the study of languages in other countries, which is difficult to qualify. By the way, one day you read the data, because in your own data you have failed too. But, well, anyway, sir... yes, yes, it also failed, I don't have time to lose any more with you, I've already lost enough. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] In any case, Mr Docasar, welcome to the concert – as I said before – welcome because this plurilingualism that you have so badly censored, criticized and abated the People's Parliamentary Group with the evil and perverseness of this decree now turns out to be barbaric. But, of course, it's barbaric because after Mr Sánchez's wrong investment through an agreement, concert or agreement... –paper after all – signed with Citizens, he says exactly: "Let's propose to establish a bilingual or trilingual model of education, by adding a foreign language, preferably English, to the official or officers of each autonomous community, respecting the competences of each autonomy to establish the weighted weight of each language in school hours." [[Murmurs.]] We're not alone anymore. She said "the immense loneliness" to Mrs. Burgo that we had in the past full. We are no longer alone, we are already accompanied and certified by an agreement of what we intend to be President of the Government. I don't know what companions you're going to count on, because someone who might be in the Tides here today said that of plurilingualism, nothing. In any case, yes, we need to keep improving, Mr Docasar, we need to keep improving. But in any case, don't forget that what the data says is something else other than what some political group here has raised: "Less historical gap with English" – February data this year – "Galicia exceeds the European average and Spanish at the English level", "the report places Galicia among the autonomous communities with a better balance". [[Murmurs.]] Perhaps you don't like some, some may still think that English, French, Portuguese, Russian or Chinese teachers who study in our schools may still be the master he's met and who studied for 15 years English and has learned to say "we" and dominates two languages. [[Murmurs.]] That reality is not the one that is part of today, with teachers with continuous training, with official language schools working at the top for teachers and for students...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u91	... with quality education, with quality training for teachers, with stays, with exchanges. I don't know what country you've been talking about, but Galicia, of course not. And to finish, Mr. President, within that improvement I want to make a signal to Mr. Pombo, also welcome to the concert. The Bachelorate International is no longer elite, we are no longer in elitism, you will vote for the Bachelorate International as well. And I want to give you a data, multilingual centers when we get to the government? Zero Multilingual Centers today, 252. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u92	Excuse me a moment, please. Please, Mrs. Adam, please, if you can do this negotiation... it's just that if you hear a lot of noise here, I really tell you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u93	They don't bother me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u94	But it's not for you, it's for the House in general, because this bothers a lot. And it's over, by the way, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u95	In any case, thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Fajardo yes, sometimes even now. But...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u96	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u97	...negotiations never bother to reach agreements. Bilingual sections, we were, when we got to the government, 720. Today, 3,630, total nothing. conversational assistants, fundamentals, we had 67; today with the incorporated this year,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u98	Finish, please, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u99	... 454. Last data, Galicia second community with more chat assistants. And finally, Galicia's first community with more students studying a second foreign language.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u100	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u101	And we'll keep getting better. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u102	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Author group of the motion, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u103	All right. Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, thank the opposition groups, the Joint Group, Mr Vázquez and Mr Pombo, for their support for this socialist initiative, of course with its nuances, but for their support. And Mr. Farinhas not only supports us, but he tried all the way to see whether Mr. Vázquez and Mr. Pombo were not supporting us either. He tried, he did everything he could to get them to vote against this motion as well. By the way, I don't know what you're going to vote for, you won't tell me. I had to get up there to say that the measures seemed to you, he got in touch with Mr. Burgo, got in touch with Mr. Vázquez, got in touch with Mrs. Fernández, with Mr. Pombo, you got in touch with me, got in touch with Touriño, got in touch with Pedro Sánchez, but you didn't talk about anything. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because – and let us all – I will meet the diversity of Mr Farínhas, I will attend the diversity of the classes and I will address Mr Farínhas. Mr. Farinas, what do you not like about the twelve socialist proposals? To guarantee the continuing training of foreign language teachers in summertime so that they can have real immersion, not in the Pearls, and the same for students? Don't you like to reduce the ratio in language classes to make it easier for conversation classes? Don't you like to make sure that the teacher who teaches language classes is a specialist and not an alderman? Don't you like us to reorient the curriculum of foreign languages to give more weight to the audience and the conversation? Don't they like us to allow public television to broadcast programs in the original version, like TV Galega? Do you not like us to increase the economic departure dedicated to facilitating foreign language immersion stays for teachers and students in summer times? You don't like it, either? Don't you like to expand the economic departure dedicated to school exchanges and recognize the work of the schools and teachers who do so? Don't you like to expand the number of conversation assistants and also get to primary school? Don't you like it, Mr. Fariñas, that they say in Galicia, that in the provinces of inner Galicia we also have the right to have the International Bachelorate? You don't like to increase Erasmus scholarships, either? Don't you like to fix the digital divide for rural centers...? Mr. Farinas, listen to me, listen to me, Mr. Farinas, no, no, I want you to look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, look at me, I want you to look at me, because looking at my eyes I think we're going to communicate much better, we're going to have more empathy, yes, yes, we're going to have more empathy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because he went up there today to try not only to support our action from the Socialist Group, but to try to convince the rest of the opposition groups that they left me alone. You tried that today, how sweet you have me! You have a loving one that kills me. [[Murmurs.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, I regret that you once again vote against something which brings the Socialist Group a positive one. They never vote for anything, you're the political group of no, then you look bad when we tell them, but for the times that are coming right now, in these coming times, there's just a time to listen and talk, and you're not used to anything. Believe me, eh! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u104	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the policy to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to reactivate the labour market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u105	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the Socialist Group we speak again about employment, unemployment. Indeed, when I was preparing for the intervention, I felt a little powerless, because whenever we talked about this very important farm for Galicia, this very important problem for our community, which is going to almost lose a generation and which is turning us to that our socioeconomic levels in all areas – in consumption, in all areas – are in line; therefore, little future. And I want to invite the parliamentary groups, but especially the People's Party, to support these initiatives, mainly because beyond those proposed, they are necessary initiatives for the Greek men and women. Therefore – as I say – the object of this initiative is that the People's Party undertakes a firm, effective and truthful commitment, fundamentally true. Because the People's Party is basically used to advertising, propaganda, and often fewer euros were used to advertising and propaganda, and if they were used with common sense and with the intention of solving the youth problem, the problem of older people, the problem of the Greeks and the Greeks, we'd better go. Basically, the People's Party in Employment Policies is making it easy to unwind, privatize public employment services through the ETTs and to celebrate with enthusiasm the President of the Galician Council the successive labour reforms that the Government of the People's Party in the Spanish State and which make the future of Galicia and the future of women and men even more blacker. The president of Galicia in 2009 said he was going to end his unemployment in forty days. Of course, the lies of the People's Party are damaging, apart from them, can be seen. The lack of respect for the leaders of the People's Party of Galicia in meeting the needs of the people in this situation is gruesome, it has been evident throughout history, but at this moment it is still more present. It is necessary for the Galician Union to reorient its employment policies. It is necessary for the reorientation, essentially – and I repeat – because we have misfortunes in families every day, because we have young people who are marching from Galicia after the Greek institutions invest in the education of these young people, in the careers of those young people, in the masters of these young people. These boys, these boys and girls, are leaving the country doing the work that their countries have done years ago when they left for them to be able to study. I believe that this deserves real policies, it deserves attention, but above all it shows that the People's Party is a despondent. The registered unemployment rate is 235,268 in February, about 25,000 more than in April 2009, which was when Feijóo took possession of the Galician Union. This sparks the effort and work of the People's Party for the Greeks and the Greeks. The registered contracts range from 62,688 in January to 61,614 in February. Well, these contracts, or 90,45 %, are temporary contracts. The persons benefiting from unemployment benefit have gone up slightly, but there is one curious thing, is that the departure for these persons benefiting from low unemployment benefit by 6 million euros. You don't understand why unemployment increases and the game decreases to take care of these people. With regard to membership of Social Security in Galicia, there are about 92,000 less members of Social Security since the Government of the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo, took possession of the Council of Galicia. The Socialist Group, as well as the other opposition groups, I believe that in each budget they are actively trying to work with the Greek Government to make employment policies more effective. In this case, the Socialist Group urges the German Government to set aside a EUR 192 million match to activate employment policies. It is known by all that the People's Party, with its absolute knee, has not even taken into account or taken into account the proposals of other groups, of course! It is hardly possible to govern a country with less than half the country. You can hardly consider and activate effective employment policies so that our young people don't have to run away and that our families aren't in poverty. This is what the International Labour Organization says when half of the country is completely ignored. Proposals were totally neglected. You are stubborn in your ineffectiveness, stubborn in advertising and propaganda, obstinate in lies, but the data is above the table. Employment, employment rate and activity rate in Galicia place us in impossible positions. The hourly contract in Galicia also fires – in Spain, but significantly in Galicia – wage inequality. As I said, the International Labour Organization says that the Spanish and Galician state, in a worse situation, is headed by poor workers. We have not only a reality that has brought us the crisis and the management of the crisis by the People's Party, which has been thousands of families at risk of poverty, but that the reality of the People's Party, its privatizations, its lies, its obstination, makes the workers poor, and this is something that we don't remember in history. All families, all parents, I urge their young, I urge their children: study, seek a job, you'll improve your living condition. Well, not only those who are unemployed are in sad conditions, but those who are working – says the International Labour Organization – are poor workers. Since Mr. Feijóo acceded to the German Government, and in full crisis, unemployment has suffered an increase in Galicia by almost 50%, placing us at the head of the autonomous communities with worse results. That's why from the Socialist Group we understand that insertion and training, and not removing employees from training itineraries, are priority objectives. Priority targets for a decent country. We have to fight not only for the workers in our country to have work, for the crisis to end, for them to evolve, but for the dignity of the people. In the face of the impoverishment of the people who work in Galicia, the Galician Union is absolutely not responsible for anything. Of course, it's the administrations, it's the Government of Galicia who is responsible for making decisions that can twist this path that leads us to cruelty and poverty. Well, the institution of the Galician Union and the Greek Government are totally dissimilar to this. More than 300,000 people in Galicia, as I said, are poor workers, 30% of the workers are poor, they and their families. Besides, 131,000 Galicians have a salary of less than 800 euros per month. In this collective, as it couldn't be otherwise, women have special prejudices. We socialists propose to link, give the fall of indefinite recruitment, all incentives for a stability rate. We propose them today, and we have already proposed it, but for the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u107	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u108	...it's not to be considered. The precariousness of the labour market has increased to the greatest, that is, 92.03 of the total contracts are contracts that are not indefinite, and most of them precarious. Employment in the industry falls by 25%, almost 50,000 people less employed. We therefore believe that the incentives must be translated into the difficulties of the different groups. And where do we understand that priority must be given? For long-term unemployed, for women and for young people. Seven out of every 10 stops, that is, 70%, they don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u110	...public help. I'm sorry that when we're talking about poverty in the Galician families, I'm deeply sorry that when we're talking about young people's emigration, I'm deeply sorry that when we're talking about cruelty, let's make it like when we're on television they're putting on an unpleasant news and changing channels. It's something that the Members of the People's Party don't care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u112	...and not to the Government either. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u114	Thank you, President. According to the People's Party, the growing economy, and according to reality, the situation of the majority of society is in a state of social alarm, does not improve at all; on the other hand, if they do so, the Bank and large companies, which are increasing their profits and profits. And it is that the liberal policies that you practice define the greatness of human beings, the ability to generate monetary income. And these policies and strategies of the most decimonic capitalism undermine democracy, foster greed and corruption and socially destroy the community. According to data from Labour Commissions since the People's Party came to Galicia, 164,000 jobs were lost in our country; that is, 14 out of every 100 existing at the end of 2008. In these seven years, almost eight, 95,000 people have been unemployed. The unemployment rate rose by more than eight points and long-term unemployment by 300 percent. In addition to this data, 69,000 people left the German labour market. Why? Because they haven't found a job and a future opportunity in their land. And what have you done to this situation of social alarm? What did you guys do? Reforming the labour market, jeopardising recruitment and applying very hard cuts in budgets for social policies. Why? Because you are subject to the economic principles of the Troika and the Government of the People's Party of Madrid. What consequences? Galiza in the van of the queue of economic recovery and quality employment as revealed by the latest data from EPA. This motion by the PSdEG-PSOE, which will count on the support of the Joint Group and this honourable Member, urges the Council of Galicia to reorient its employment policies, and so should you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. They should understand that they have to redirect their labour and economic policies to benefit the social majority of our country, putting emphasis on the primary sector, creating and generating jobs on our land. For what? To curb emigration and improve the demographic pyramid. But how does that job have to be? Precautionary? No, no, no, no. It has to be equal employment for women and men. I employ decently and with rights, reorienting its policies towards the derogation of labour reform that has been taken advantage of by the employer in the new part-time employment contracts, which is the germ of exploitation and labour poverty. The social divide and inequality are growing with the policies that you, lords of the People's Party, have been practicing since they occupy management and power. Listen, ladies, listen carefully to the suffering of the working class; listen carefully to the complaints of malnourished children and children; listen carefully to the suffering of families in which no income enters, and reorient their policies as this motion of the PSdEG-PSOE requests. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u115	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u116	It will allow me, Comrade Maria Quintas, that before we express our support for the initiative, we will also denounce the inconsistency of the initiative with regard to the policies which it intends to bring forward the Socialist Party as a whole. A reorientation of employment policies cannot be considered without abrogating labour reform. There can be no reform and better attention to unemployed people without being able to reform the cuts that the People's Party has made about benefits and unemployment. And, therefore, this initiative cannot be taken forward if the Socialist Party insists on supporting an agreement with Citizens that goes against the rights of workers, especially in a matter which is key and vital to us, which is that single contract model which would involve a stabilising the stable contract of this country, and which actually converts all workers of this country into possible contracts. Because, as you know, that single contract model does what it does is to de-causalize the eventual contract and therefore from that moment on, in which companies are not required that any contracts have to do with possible employment situations, what they are doing directly is to decausalize the possible employment and convert all employment at any time. That's a reality we have to report. Another thing is what we consider in the motion, and what we consider in the motion is something that is absolutely fundamental to us. Some accused other governments of denying that swindle they had in calling a crisis. We accuse the current Government of denying the reality of unemployment in this country. Getting jobs is not creating jobs, which are reduced in a poor way by numbers of registered unemployed people has nothing to do with job creation, but with job destruction and their way of sharing it, but also with emigration or the discouragement of many people who no longer join the unemployment list because it's impossible to find a job from there. But maybe one of the worst issues you've ever done in this country is how the benefits of those people who lose their jobs have been attacked. First there's an economic policy and a job reform that condemns thousands of workers on unemployment lists and then attacks them on their benefits. This is why since 2011 the attack has reduced €9.500 million in unemployment benefits, i.e. taken from the pockets of the workers and workers of this country €9.500 million, which were to keep the families of the workers and workers, who provided subsistence to the people who lost their jobs. Since then 9,500 million euros less. Only in Galicia last year did our unemployed and unemployed 248 million, which would help to promote not only the economic capacity of those families, but also the economy of this country. 248 million euros that have stopped spending in this country because the People's Party simply believes that there is no need to protect the unemployed. And today it is more the unemployed who receive nothing than those who receive any benefits. You're filibustering with the figures and taking out these figures some unemployed so you don't know the reality. And it's just that 51 percent of the people who don't have jobs today don't have any kind of income, which means misery for this set of people. And in view of this, what does the People's Party do? Keep cutting. We must remember that it was the People's Party that reduced the capacity of months of benefit per year worked, who also reduced the amount of benefits by 10% from the sixth month and, therefore, who is continually attacking those who have lost their jobs because of a scam that you have given in calling economic crisis. We believe that it is time to recover the benefits for the unemployed, to help those in this country who have been unemployed for more than two years and who in many cases, over 45 years, have a lot of difficulty in reaching a new job. And they can't leave them in the ballot box, what we have to do is recover the economic capacities of these people, activate the resources that the State has to care for the people who are paying for the crisis caused by the financial powers that you defend and which, in many cases, finance the People's Party. It is absolutely indecent that we continue to leave the people who are paying for the economic policies of the People's Party without protection. So we agree that we need to reorient policies, we agree that we need to look for mechanisms to protect the unemployed, but we will not agree that some things should be put on paper and policies that are going in the opposite direction. The first important action to recover employment in this country is to eliminate an abusive labour reform that has condemned the misery of thousands of workers; therefore, that criminal labour reform must be the first to derogate the future government of the state. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u117	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u118	Good morning. At this point, we take care of the Galician Nationalist Block, which can already be taken into account in the successive labour reforms for the working class. Work reforms that have led to increased entrepreneurship and attempts to weaken collective bargaining, the ability of workers and workers to defend their rights. And they assumed wage devaluation and very important job destruction. They had all these questions because that was the real objective of labour reforms. They never intended that they put in their introductory parts to create jobs, or to facilitate the creation of that job, but their goal was really the data that is now on the table. Reforms to the interests of the business authorities, to the service of the financial powers, which have turned into law a multitude of historical demands of the employer. What the labor reforms did was give them legal status to business demands against the demands of the working class, which they assumed was degradation, impoverishment of the working class. Reforms that increased the unequal distribution of wealth and the liberalization of labour relations. For reforms that have served to deprotect the unemployed, to further aggravate dismissal, to expand the assumptions they consider coming from dismissal, to facilitate collective dismissal, to lower wages, to increase sinequality. Well, we could continue to list the negative consequences of these labour reforms. As a result, we found ourselves in a market with an increasingly deteriorating labour market and with tremendously damaging consequences for workers and workers. Not only in the decline in the number of jobs, but also in the worst quality, the greater precariousness, the greater temporality, the increase in part-time schedules and unfortunately not the demand itself, but as the obligation as the only option. With all the measures that have been taken, the protection of the unemployed has only made it worse. The BNG continues to find it difficult to understand that the resources for the protection of unemployment, which have decreased those for the Central Government and those for the Government of Galicia, which have reduced those resources for the protection of unemployment and non-execution, and that it has also increased the failure to implement the smaller budgets planned for this purpose. We find it hard to understand that at the moment with the largest number of unemployed people in history, because such policies are made to allocate less resources, and it seems unworthy to us that thousands of people are kept without protection, people who are forming a chronic poverty bag that approaches or is already in exclusion. At this time in Galicia more than 43% of the people in unemployment have been in that situation for more than two years. Now there are more long-term unemployed in Galicia that stopped existed when the crisis began, which seems to us to be a chilling figure. In Galicia, more than 20,000 people have spent a year and a half in unemployment, 22,000 people have spent a year and a half a year in unemployment and 105,000 people have spent more than two years in unemployment. I mean, almost 150,000 long-term unemployed people in Galicia. I insist, it seems to us a very chilling figure, because with this high percentage of long-term unemployed people, it means that the number of people who don't have or who don't charge any benefits is also very high, because the benefits in Galicia, in the Spanish state, have a maximum of two years. The percentage of unemployed people who receive any benefits has been reduced, it is placed under 50%, and we also find it unworthy in the Galician Nationalist Block, which is exactly the most lacking of a public employment service that has allowed all unemployed persons to facilitate insertion, reintegration, easier itineraries, have a public placement service worthy of service to these people, and have been away when most was assaulted and also when more was lawful to favour temporary work enterprises, the more it was legislated to encourage these businesses to be given turnover at the expense of the unemployed. That is why we are going to support this initiative presented by the Socialist Party today, because we really believe that it is necessary to promote measures for the benefit of the unemployed, but also to promote measures that are willing, then, to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. In the past plenary, the Socialist Group asked the Government about the policies planned by the Galician Union to reactivate the labour market, and the response of the advisor – given all the economic and employment policies that have put Galicia in the way of recovery – was powerful and convincing, as all the data that show that these policies are going in the right direction. It is clear that the councillor has convinced you, Mrs Quintas, because you have not been able to make any contribution to this motion on the reactivation of the labour market, nothing, he talks about reorienting policies and then talking about public services and benefits, i.e. passive employment policies. He asked about active employment policies and as a result of the response, as he convinced him, because he made a motion in which he urged the Union to implement passive employment policies. Well, these are these small and usual contradictions that the socialists have already used to us. It was also the message that the councillor sent to all the Welsh people that this Government does not cease to apply concrete measures to open opportunities, opportunities for those people who want to work to find a job and for all families to have sufficient resources to live a decent life, and with this priority was born the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, a new planning to consolidate economic recovery and intensify job creation in the short and long term, and with this priority to Junta approved last March 3 to Agenda 20 for Employment. That's why we're not going to vote in favour of this motion, Mrs. Quintas, because the Government has strategy and planning on this issue, and this strategy and planning is working and going in the right direction, as shown by the 49,700 jobs created in Galicia since the beginning of 2014 and the 21,400 homes that have ceased to have all its members unemployed. Disembarkation is the one that destroyed 51,300 jobs, which increased unemployment to 32% in the last year of government, despite the fact that I put down a clean-up plan the last year before, prior to autonomic elections. In the Bipartite affiliations fell by 4.7% and now they grow by 2%. Mrs. Quintas, job creation lessons, none! In the wake of the latest unemployment data recorded last February Galicia closed with 22,281 unemployed less than a year ago, which means a 8.65% drop. We have better behavior than the state in international terms in relation to the previous month, as unemployment decreases by 1,179 people over the month of January. Employment policies show that we are working very hard to keep unemployment going down, and the reality is that Galicia registers twenty-one months of consecutive annual decline, unemployment levels below February 2011 are placed in three consecutive years where unemployment falls in February, and membership increases at a rate higher than the rest of Spain. And focusing on what our initiative calls for – which you have obviously – to strengthen the public service of employment, is one of the priorities that are set out in Agenda 20 for employment, which has as its basic objective to boost the quality and stability of employment in Galicia, with an annual investment of EUR 180 million to strengthen special attention, which already provides to groups with greater difficulties in finding a job. And precisely one of its challenges is to improve and guide public services in the care of job seekers, and it has already been working in that direction, strengthening this public employment service, incorporating 126 new mentors, of which 70 will do their work within the Active Employment Plan aimed at long-term unemployed without benefits, and the remaining 50 within the Youth Guarantee Programme. The Employment Agenda 20 also includes the implementation of the Aprol Programme with nearly EUR 64 million to promote recruitment, especially among the most disadvantaged groups, persons with disabilities, long-term unemployed, youth and women, which Mrs Quintas has forgotten, for which a plan of employment and equality will be put in place. And as I have to finish, ladies and gentlemen, finally tell you that the fundamental goal of President Feijóo's government is to create jobs without fail to support the most vulnerable, and so the Union, through Risga, complements the three state programmes that provide coverage for people at risk of social execution: such as the Active Income of inclusion, the Plan prepares and the Active Plan. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Replica, draftsman of the motion, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. You will see, Mrs. Fernández, we probably live in different countries, possibly in different cities too, because the way we activate employment in Ourense we already know everyone, declared today at 12:30 a.m. [[Applause]] Let's see, you're talking to me about a strategic plan. This mania that has or the People's Party to think they come down from the Cid's leg, that certainly does from the Cid's leg, and that they know everything, and that the others are ignorant, seems to me, Mrs. Fernández. a lack of parliamentary respect, not to put it that way, because it's right. With regard to those wonderful agendas that you do, I'll tell you: look, the reality of employment in the Spanish State and Galicia is that it would be unnecessary for me not to say it even to the opposition, because it's a reality that's there, that when people come to the plenary you throw it out, and when they're waiting outside to see if they're going to solve some problem they don't get out. So if we were in Galicia in the country of wonders you would surely let people come in to see their good work, and they would welcome us at the door. With regard to the strategies and strategic plans, which this is the Government of the plan, I remember that since Mr. Feijóo governs it is a plan, and another plan, and a plan within a plan, and 77 plans within the plan itself, which are useless. In the last important agenda you made by your Government, Mrs Fernández, you have been mistaken at EUR 4 billion. I have to ask Mr. Losada three times, because, of course, I feel so much that I might be mistaken, since I am not an economist. Those are your schedules. With regard to the very important work of the Employment Adviser, it is that 50% of the budget is not executed, that also indicates what concerns them about reality. Of course, if you live in a bubble where everything is wonderfully fine, because maybe we'll take 50 percent, because all the unemployed Greeks are well cared for. The reality, Mrs Fernández, is that the number of people stopped since the year 2009 has increased by about 70,000. The reality is that the beneficiaries per benefit fell in 10,243 and that the spending to meet those most unemployed, more people at risk of poverty, fell in about 25 million euros, exactly 24.170,000. Therefore, Mrs. Fernández, I understand you hear, but with a little respect. You have to defend what the People's Party and what the People's Government tells you, but with a little respect, because the figures are these, and those you have, I have them and you have the rest of the opposition. And the hunger...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u123	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u124	...and poverty, and that light can't be turned on, and the lack of heating, and the emigrants: that's what the Greeks and the Greeks have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u125	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas. Thank you very much. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u126	Good afternoon. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u127	This motion has been tabled amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Blocs of Wales and the Parliamentary Group on the Alternative Galician Left. [[(G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of its honourable Member and spokesperson Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, in the light of Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits to the Bureau the following amendment to this motion.Additional amendment.A new point must be added to the resolution of the motion:"14. Law 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 on the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender violence recognises in its article 3 as a form of violence trafficking of women and children for exploitation, whatever the relationship between the victim and the aggressor and the environment used.Therefore, the Greek Parliament urges the Government to include and develop in the field of economic, labour and housing aid programmes that collect this form of gender violence."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. At the initiative of its honourable Member and Deputy Spokesman Eva Solla Fernández, in accordance with Article 151.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, submits the following amendment to this motion to the Bureau.Amendment of amendment. Paragraph I must replace paragraphs 4, 5, 8, 11 and 12 of the motion with the following:"4.- Regulate the status of residence for exceptional reasons for women and/or girls who are victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. In such a way that administrative regulation enables them to access a Plan that includes effective incorporation into their basic rights as citizens: the right to health, education, housing, access to employment and social protection, etc..5.- To urge the Labour Inspectorate to increase actions at the alterne sites in Galicia to ensure that existing legal contracts, if possible, are adequate 5 bis.- Establish effective collaboration with the Hungarian groups that help women in situations of prostitution to provide the necessary information on the aid and rights for people who leave the practice of prostitution.8.- Conduct, from a feminist perspective, awareness campaigns on the situation of women in prostitution, sexual exploitation and trafficking and their rights.11.- Require media with editions and/or distribution/emission in Galicia the fulfilment of legality in relation to equality, avoiding short-term stereotypes or stigmas on women and children in prostitution. Conditioning on this fact the receipt of public aid or subsidies."In paragraph II, points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 11 of the motion must be replaced by the following:"4-5 (unique point).- Develop a cross-sectional plan with economic resources against sexual exploitation which includes women in poverty and risk of social exclusion, avoiding the possibility of prostitution and other women in situations of prostitution today. This Plan will aim at social, labour, and the fulfilment of the fundamental rights of these persons.To this end, it will be established:(a)The proportion of resources and coordination to Justice and Security Forces and Security Corps in order to be able to act against trafficking and sexual exploitation of women and girls.(b)The regulation of the status of residence because of the exceptional causes of women exploited.(c)The planning of measures for access to the labour market in decent conditions so that women can abandon the situation of prostitution.(d)The planning of measures guaranteeing access to health protection, education, housing and the rest of basic rights.6.- Regulate the condition of residence for exceptional reasons for women and/or children victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation. In such a way that administrative regularization enables them to access a Plan that includes effective incorporation into their basic rights as citizens: the right to health, education, housing, access to employment and social protection, etc..7.- Instigating the Labour Inspectorate to increase actions at the sites of alternative non-existent people in Galicia so as to ensure that existing legal contracts, if possible, are appropriate.8.- Amend the Penal Code to prevent women in situations of prostitution and penalize procurancy.11.- Conduct, from a feminist perspective, awareness-raising campaigns on the situation of women in prostitution, sexual exploitation and trafficking and their rights."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u128	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u129	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We are going to deal with prostitution in this motion that emerges from the interpellation presented in the previous plenary session. As we said on the basis of interpellation, although prostitution is mostly practiced by women and children and consumers are mostly men, we also have to recognize that prostitution is also practiced by transsexuals and homosexuals. So this motion talks about people and it doesn't just talk about women, because we consider prostitution to be a problem in itself, regardless of who exercises it. Important economic interests want to focus the debate on prostitution on the desirability of legalizing or regulating prostitution, the withdrawal of street prostitutes or the recognition or not of prostitution as another job. Basically, the different treatment of prostitution in different countries can be summed up in three: the regulatory system, the prohibitionist system and the abolitionist system. I will not define myself here or propose that this Parliament define itself for either of the three positions, since the debate is not about that. This debate has planted it as a defense of human rights and fundamental rights for those people who exercise prostitution, far away from any of the named philosophies. It is estimated that approximately 300,000 to 400,000 women in the state are engaged in prostitution; 90% of these women are foreign women and the vast majority are in an irregular state. According to the study, from the experience and look of Caritas – which is not a feminist organization or a revolutionary organization – the number of women of Spanish nationality exercising prostitution to support their homes is increasing, without the family in most cases having knowledge of it. Surveys indicate that 30 per cent of Spaniards engage in sex with prostitutes and that Spain is one of the countries where the consumption of prostitution is less predestined. Inquiries reveal that only about 5% of women who practice prostitution claim to do so freely, the remaining 95% of them are forced to do so. In the case of foreign women, victims of irregular trafficking, the law of the State permits their regularization if they denounce the network or report the child, and collaborate in the disarticulation of the network, but according to the Civil Guard only 1% of sexually exploited women report their situation. [[Murmurs.]] President, please, I'm dying. I understand that the leaders of the People's Party are not interested in the problem of prostitution, but I ask for respect for women. Okay, but I, above all, listened to this side. [[Murmurs.]] Well, only one percent denounces the situation of trafficking and sexual exploitation because they have no guarantees or wages to enable them to survive if they leave prostitution, to have police protection and security bodies to avoid being assaulted by the progeny or mobsters who brought them, and they have no guarantees to keep their families in the countries of origin. So they're women who don't trust the administration to quit prostitution, because they've proven that the administration offers them absolutely nothing. Civil Guard reports point out that when they are proposed to leave prostitution they perceive this offer as an unrealistic possibility, which does not guarantee them survival or even their physical security. The State Attorney General's Office points out that trafficking in persons is the phenomenon of organized crime that occurs most frequently in the Spanish State. Prostitution is part of the submerged economy sector and generates in black money between EUR 12,000 and EUR 18 billion a year, which are included in state GDP, as if it were the sale of a product, without taking into account that goods are the human body. But the law does regulate the rights of sex entrepreneurs, of pimps, and indeed since 2001 there has been the employer of alterne clubs. So if there's an employer of prostitutes, there's got to be staff to work for that employer. And not recognizing it is a simple social hypocrisy. Therefore, we cannot on the basis of that hypocrisy deny reality and unprotect these women. The Caritas report says: "While prostitution exists, gender inequality will continue to exist, because this activity is one of the fundamental foundations of the patriarchal sexual system." I think it's all the opposite, because as long as there's gender inequality, prostitution will remain in force, because it's based on the domination of one sex over the other. That's why this motion aims to open up a necessary debate and take measures that recognize the rights of persons exercising prostitution, the rights of people who want to abandon the world of prostitution and acts in relation to progeny and trafficking. In this motion, first of all, a report on the current situation of prostitution in Galicia is to be submitted to this Parliament within one month. The other day it was embarrassing to hear the vice president say that he doesn't know how many alterne clubs there are in Galicia. Well, I should know because the users of those clubs know exactly where they are. So there's no reason why the vice president doesn't know how many alterne clubs there are, how many women work in these alterne clubs, how many people are part of these alterne clubs. We also call for all necessary measures to be implemented to ensure that no person involved in a trafficking process can open a premises in Galicia. Increase economic and material resources so that people can quit prostitution, included in current programs. There can't be an exclusive program for people who practice prostitution, because that would be as much as marking them; they have to get inside the programs that already exist. Automatic access to irregular immigrants' helplines and their automatic regularization. The vulnerability to which they are currently subjected after the judicial decision is not acceptable. We also urge the Labour Inspectorate to act in the alternating clubs and check the working conditions of the workers of these clubs, and that it also offers them the alternatives to leaving prostitution. Training and awareness-raising programmes for the care of prostitution throughout the public administration: justice, social services, health, local police and autonomy. Also a training program for teachers and teachers, because they are and care for children whose mothers are engaged in prostitution. They must therefore have knowledge so that these children do not look discriminated against. We also ask to carry out from a feminist perspective with the representation of sex workers campaigns to raise awareness about the rights of sex people, to dignify sexual work, because only if this work is dignified can we give people rights to prostitution. Also carry out awareness campaigns, dedicated to users of prostitution, work health campaigns... And then we also asked for another series of initiatives that would break the moral concept of prostitution, to improve women's rights. Because if there's one thing that's right, and we claim, for example, a retirement pension, because we consider them to be sex workers and sex workers, because we condemn people who practice prostitution to be poor news and to be poor also when they get old. And we also eliminated voluntary prostitution from the Criminal Code, because we believe that all women have the right to decide about our sexuality, how to use our sex. Because as a famous feminist slogan says, "If no one is sent in my pussy, neither does he send the Church, nor the state, nor the feminists, I command alone. So what I do with my body is my responsibility, and nobody can forbid me to use it as best I can." So I personally – and it's not the debate – am against the prohibition, and I think it's within women's freedom to decide how to use their sex, when they use it and for which they use it, without anyone can establish any kind of moral or ethics about it. I believe that in this debate there is also a lot of religious morality, there is a lot of social hypocrisy and, above all, there is a great punishment for those women most unprotected by society, those women who have no means of subsistence, and the only thing offered to them is: leave prostitution, that you will not be offered anything, you stay on the street, you have no income, you leave abandoned. So I hope that with all the doubts that you may have you support this motion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u131	Thank you, President. For this is a complex issue, which has always represented difficulties in political, trade union organizations and even in feminist organizations. It's an old debate, but not because of old times, but not because it's hard to abandon it, because while we welcome and do not address the subject of thousands of women and girls are forced to prostitute themselves, they are exploited, they are treated, they are victims of the same mobs that now see their millions of profits from the gross domestic product of the Spanish State. The initiative is very extensive, and from this group we want to amend at least the parts that seem most important to us, because we have deep discrepancies with the concept of prostitution, with some aspects of the initiative: We don't consider prostitution to be a job, we don't sell the labor force, we sell the body itself. But, however, I wish we were willing to be giving this camera or anywhere else this debate. I wish the debate were just theoretical! The reality is that at least, and as the proponent has already said, according to the data of the oenegas and the police themselves, 90% of the women who engage in prostitution in the state as a whole and Galicia do so in a obliged way, and almost entirely, 94%, are victims of trafficking in persons. So I wish we were at the other end of the debate. Not even in the case of women who allegedly engage in prostitution on a voluntary basis. And so it is also denounced by the collectives who are attending the Equality Commission. The crisis, which is also responsible – as has already been said here – was the one that pushed some Spanish and German women to have to prostitute, not because they want, but because they need to feed their children, their families, or to survive. There's no freedom in prostitution, it's not a job, it's just that women are driven by poverty, first because they're women and, second, because they're poor. And in the case of exploited women treated not even that. We understand it essential that these women have access to residence for exceptional reasons, and so we put it in our amendment, because otherwise it would be impossible for them to have access to basic rights and human rights. It is impossible if they are not administratively regularized. We believe it is not exactly appropriate to urge the Labour Inspectorate to review the contracts, not because there are not some, although there are discrepancies, but because most women in prostitution are not hired, exploited, treated, and usually that does not happen. It's true that there are some people with certain contracts, for example, of waitresses from some clubs, but it's not enough. And we understand that it is not the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate, probably the Social Services Administration, to try to interact with these women in prostitution to inform them of their rights and to try to work to get them out of this situation. There is no representation of sex workers right now, as the initiative says. We understand how an initiative has already been put forward, which the People's Party has voted against, which cannot continue to finance media prostitution advertisements, which denigrate, which facilitate the business of the pimps, the mobs, and which facilitate the trafficking of women. We understand, and thus it is reflected in the amendments, that there is no penalty for women prostitutes, and that the traffickers and pimps should be punished. And, obviously, we put it there in writing, the Prosecutor's Office and security forces and bodies so they can act against trafficking and against the mobs. No woman – I said at first – wants to prostitute herself on her own. It's just -- as we said at the entrance -- that women are poor or that women are in a situation where they have no other way out. And so we're asking for a real comprehensive plan with employment options, housing options and training options so that women can really leave that situation, because without housing and without employment they have no other possibility, and obviously access to public health. He doesn't give me time for all the measures, so I'm going to finish. According to the most recent studies, those we have on the table here spoke of 30%, 40% of the men throughout the state, and also in Galicia, they went to at least once to a prostitution service, 40%! There are 47 Members in this House, extrapolen, do the calculation and look at the side. And I end by quoting the statements of a victim of trafficking first published in El País and then collected in the book of Professors Águeda Gómez and Silvia Pérez, addressed to that 40% – already finished –: Congratulations, they are enriching the Mafias. Thanks to you, thousands of girls and women are being kidnapped right now so that you can enjoy it as you like. The mafias will get all sizes, tall, low, blonde, white or brunette. For God's sake, they're human beings, they're girls like your daughters, they're mothers like your mothers, sisters, aunts and grandmothers, and of course they're treated and exploited. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u133	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, today the Joint Group is creating a difficult debate, a fundamental debate, a debate that has divided for decades, not only – as has been said – political organizations, trade unions, but also the feminist movement itself, both on the street and in universities, both on the street and in the whole theoretical development of it. And let me differentiate, firstly, prostitution of trafficking, even though on the initiative and also in all the work we have done in the Equality Commission is very linked. Prostitution, as Mrs Martínez has defined it, puts a focus on two fundamental positions: abolitionism and – let's call the other two positions – understand prostitution as an activity or as a job. This actually generates an important debate and generates a debate about women's sexuality, the control of women's sexuality on the part of men and society, and it is also without a doubt crossed by a whole series of moral considerations that our culture has been dragging for centuries. I think I define myself as a feminist woman who is not an abolitionist, which I don't think is the way, but I understand the depth and difficulty of the process in which we are. And I also understand that abolitionist laws give us data that must force us to think about the situation in which we live. I believe prostitution is a fundamental, very important debate, that there is a world that we don't look at but that is there every day and that it reaches the House today. And it comes to the House because it's a world crossed by marginality on many occasions, by poverty, by inequality. But – and I also share with part of the proposal that is put on us from the proponent – if we look elsewhere, those who suffer the most are the ones that we are penalizing. And I don't think that any of us can judge these women, and at least we can deny them resources, support, and really deny them the condition that is claimed at any of the points of this initiative, that it's an activity that is being carried out and having no chance of unemployment or retirement drags these women into even more marginal in all areas of their lives, including old age. That's why I don't think it's a debate we can, of course, fix here, but it's not an easy debate. And when we just say to ban it, well, we're also forcing it in some way to exercise itself even more in a more hidden way or in a more persecuted way for these women, and they can be themselves who end up suffering more. But the truth is that right now, as we see prostitution, it is primarily about dealing. Ninety percent – if you speak, it's difficult – of these surveys are women who claim to practice prostitution, who claim it, and that it is corroborated by studies, the people who are working with them, the bodies of security forces, in a forced way. And then the obligation would be to have a law that had pursued trafficking and that had provided resources for all those women who could abandon such trafficking or who could give up prostitution. A woman who abandons prostitution, even though she has just been a traffic woman, has very little public help, and very little help to get out of that situation, both economic and housing, and access to a job, and I'm no longer saying psychological recovery or restoring her vital project. Many of them are women who have children, who have daughters, women who have their families in countries of origin, who are also being extortioned by these mobs. So, a serious problem that today comes in the form of a very extensive motion and that BNG is simply presenting an amendment. I think I remember that the Welsh Law of Violence is the first law of the entire state that incorporates trafficking in persons – so called in 2007 – into gender violence, today it deals with it. I think it was a very important step forward that had been taken in this law, in addition to in consensus, because the definition of gender-based violence here in the Chamber was not introduced in the third article, but with the honourable Members themselves before in the process of thinking how this law could be done. What we propose is that, since it is in the definition, all the measures that appear collected in the articulate and which at that point by default, because we really haven't been able to deepen enough, so they were not introduced, and that economic aid, housing aid, plans, for example, for employment insertion, collect women who leave prostitution or who have been victims of trafficking. I think it would be a step forward. And besides, in any case, if not accepted here, we still have several months of this legislation to turn it around to a measure that could also be once again vanguard and novice in the state. I'm going to conclude because the truth is that this is a debate that I think very quietly about how we understand the sexuality of women. For me there is an author, a philosopher, Martha Nussbaum, who makes a book published in 1999, Sexuality and Social Justice, who I believe focuses on all the debates that we face women and men with regard to prostitution, all the morality that we have to prevent us from seeing in political terms, in terms of social control, in terms of freedom, in terms of depth. It's just that when we sometimes say feminists that we're going to save women whores, that's not so much, that's: we're going to accompany women in making free decisions about their body, even when we don't understand some...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u135	...decisions because they contradict our morality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u137	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, during the questioning of this motion on sexual exploitation and prostitution we had the opportunity to check the attitude of the Government of Feijóo, which is not the opinion of the Government of Feijóo, on this serious problem. An attitude that we have not shared from the Socialist Group at all, because the PP, while recognizing that trafficking and prostitution are against human rights and that they are a form of gender-based violence, Mr. Rueda has remained so calm saying that the Government can't do anything because he doesn't have a magic vein and that it's better not to make politics on this subject. Well, I don't really know what Mr. Wheel wants us to do in this Chamber, in the Greek Parliament, I don't know, fit into bubbles or I don't know what you think, because policies are necessary, no doubt, to put an end to this scourge, and also, according to the policies we do, inequalities and macho violence are growing or diminishing. It is not to us that the person responsible for equality and the safety of the Galician Union doesn't know how many alternate locations there are in our community. But, caramba!, if they announce themselves with such big neon lights. Besides, you can't apologize for your inaction with allegality or illegality. I have said it many times and I have repeated it here again: if there had really been a little commitment there would be only to put alcoholemia controls, ladies and gentlemen, at the door of the puticlubs – because that's what they call "puticlubs"–. The Union can't tell us how many women and girls we have in Galicia victims of trafficking, because, Madam, it is mainly about women and girls. But if I knew here that Galicia was the first autonomous community that signed a protocol of institutional action to prevent, investigate and treat women victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. By the way, that protocol, which was signed in 2010, however, six years later, in 2016, does not serve us, according to Mr. Rueda himself said, not even to quantify the problem. It seems to me that very successful shouldn't be that protocol. On the other hand, if we agree with the text of the interpellation, because, indeed, it deals with it for the purposes of sexual exploitation and consequently prostitution, who feeds it, are gender-based violence. And of course, in the world of prostitution there is abuse for women, both physical and psychic. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that 90% of the women who engage in prostitution are irregular immigrants and are prostituted under the threat of mafia and pimps. We know that only 5% of prostitutes voluntarily do so, or otherwise say: 95% of women who prostitute themselves with forced labor. And we know that trafficking and prostitution go hand in hand; if there was no prostitution there would be no deal, because when the demand went away it was no longer of interest to the trade, it would no longer be business. Something that, by the way, they checked in Sweden, because by pursuing prostitution they were able to practically end the trafficking. It's not about morals; it's not about judging women, of course not; it's about chasing the client to end the pimp. It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that trafficking and prostitution are a form of slavery based on Machism, and therefore, Madam Socialist Parliamentary Group cannot support its motion. We don't consider prostitution a job, it's slavery; it's a more evidence of masculine violence and that, gentlemen, it's something we can't and we must regulate. We want the penalty for the client, as we certainly collected in our electoral program; we want the full support for these women who are forced and forced to practise prostitution; full support for the victim, the prostitute – yes, the prostitute – condemned for the progeny, and, of course, social awareness against prostitution. And so we have posed it in this chamber on more than one occasion, although unfortunately until now the majority group has always voted against, because it prefers to continue with the hypocrisy of looking to the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oubiña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Today you, Madam, bring here a motion as a result of an interpellation in the past full, and although we share many of the topics that we have – we say – you put in your text, it does not seem serious, Mrs Martínez, that I have a transactional text, which I have here, of five sheets, at the last hour, including so repeated themes, which is intended to approve in a five-minute debate. Turning back to the subject, Mrs Martínez, the adviser's intervention, I think it made clear the complexity of the topic, both because of its transnational character and also because we're talking about actions that often move in legality and many others in the allegation. And this supposes it's especially hard to identify and have data from the victims, which is simply what the advisor said. You must not mix, as you do at your initiative, Mrs. Martínez, the victims of a crime such as trafficking or prostitution with sex workers, as you say, when prostitution in Spain is not legalized as a profession. It's not clear, therefore, whether you're in favor of legalizing prostitution or not. I understand you're in favour, I understand that the groups that support this subject will also be. In the appearances in the Non-Permanent Equality Commission of the various NGOs that make up the Galga Network against Trafficking, who received the 2015 Castelao Medal for their work, we were able to verify that all the visitors were contrary to the legalization of prostitution. As for the support measures launched by the Galician Union, as early as 2010, the President of the Union and the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice signed the first institutional action protocol on prevention, research and treatment of women victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. This measure allowed programs to be signed in collaboration with the various NGOs, carrying out care programmes for women victims of sexual exploitation, in order to assist them in their social and labour integration, accompanying them in what they need, in terms of both the support of the Union and the Prosecutor's Office; ultimately protecting the victims. In 2011 you know that the Itinris project was launched, with the participation of the governments of Brazil, Portugal and Galicia for the protection and fight against sexual exploitation in trafficking issues in the countries of origin. The work of the CIMs and other entities has been enhanced by the launch in 2011 of the 50-language remote translation service, since we're talking about most of them being foreign immigrant women. By means of various agreements and entities, since 2010, more than 27,000 people have been treated, in the vast majority of women immigrants in irregular situations, to which we must add that the VI Equality Plan also includes for the first time anti-trafficking measures, concrete measures, as well as awareness-raising campaigns that are carried out every year aimed at raising the awareness of society as a whole. As for the economic resources – as mentioned here too – victims of sexual exploitation and trafficking in persons are entitled to income from Galician social integration through the emergency procedure, being exempted from the requirement of residence and embezzlement, as well as from other victims of gender-based violence, being again Galicia's first autonomous community providing health care to women in irregular situations victims of sexual exploitation. If we talk about budgeting, this year 2016 has increased budgets for this purpose by more than 30%. At the state level – which has also been spoken here – it was a government of the People's Party that has carried out both the reform of the Criminal Code which first criminalizes the crime of trafficking in human beings and other regulatory instruments that guarantee free assistance to victims of trafficking and to minors in situations of abuse and abuse in judicial and administrative proceedings, which means, Mrs Martínez, an even broader protection than that required by the European directive. Therefore, we are not going to support this text that you have already presented to us, because the Galician Union, within its competences on this subject, will continue to work and will continue to collaborate with those with whom this work is best done, which are, without any doubt, the various NGOs that form the Galician Network against Trafficking in Persons. Besides, so it was also demonstrated, above all, by trust...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u140	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u141	...–Finished, Mr. President—to deposit women victims, not in the administration, precisely, but in those associations that are closest to the victims. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Motion Author Group, Mixed Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u143	Yeah, well, I'll start with the last intervention. I delivered the transaction because it's precisely a long text, but you've known the text for a week now, it's simply in relation to the amendments, which you also know earlier, which are correct or not; it's been trying to ease the work, but it's hard for you to read the text that is delivered to you. As far as NGOs are concerned, they must leave the Government's functions very well so that NGOs are dedicated to precisely defending the rights of the most vulnerable. But I also want to say that the first thing to do, first of all, is to protect women and then we'll look at them, but first we'll protect them, guarantee them income, guarantee them housing, guarantee their children and their children a dignified life, and then we can look at other things. Because some of the actors say that prostitution isn't a job, that sex workers don't exist, but there's the employer of sex. When there's an employer, it's because there's a staff broth, because if not, it has no place to be. What's clear is that here you protect your little girls with a recognized employer, but you don't recognize the women who work for those little girls, who are exploited cruelly. On the other hand, I demand total and absolutely the right of women to decide their sexuality, to decide whether or not they want to exercise prostitution freely without anyone exploiting them. Because the rest is a moral concept about how women have to use their sexuality, so they should use it, when it's well-known that a woman has sexual intercourse, when it's wrong to see a woman have sexual intercourse, when she can have sexual intercourse and when she can't have sexual intercourse. And no one can tell a woman that. Get your attention to telling me there's a remote translation service. I don't think that's the biggest problem the prostitutes in our country have. And it is true that prostitution is exercised mostly by necessity, by economic necessity, because this government does not meet the needs of women, because this government votes against women to equal their wages with men, because it maintains discrimination, and discrimination certainly leads to prostitution. But it's also true that if most are because of need or treatment, there are also women who freely practice prostitution. And I find it fascinating that in this Parliament women's right to use their sex is denied as they like and say it's not true, that there are women who exercise it voluntarily, because it's true that there is, because I don't deny that I am denied the right to use my body as I wish. And besides, in all those aids that there are so good that less than 1% of women who practice prostitution come to the administration asking for help, because they don't trust the administration's help, because they've found that they're not going ahead and because, besides, you don't know how many of those women are less than 1%, actually, with the help the Administration offers them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u145	...they can leave the world of prostitution. So I think a lot of things are mixed here. It is mainly a Catholic moral that we've been breaking our heads for centuries, eliminating women's rights for centuries, directing women's sexuality. And I want to start by saying that women have to ask that our sexuality is free and in our sexuality nobody commands. I deeply regret the position of the Socialist Party, which is due to the abolition, without more, and does not allow to improve the quality of life of women who practice prostitution and of people who practice prostitution, which would be the fundamental thing. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Quiet, please. Quiet, please. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u147	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We begin with the G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to improve the learning of foreign languages in the education system of Galicia. No amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar, on the performances that must be carried out by the Government of Galicia to improve the learning of foreign languages in the education system of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u148	We then vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the policy to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to reactivate the labour market. No amendments were tabled. We therefore vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, on the policy to be carried out by the Government of Galicia to reactivate the labour market. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u149	Finally, we voted for the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. They have brought to this presidency a transactional text that collects amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and the Alternative Left Galaga. And it was asked by the Gaga de Left Alternative Group for a point vote. In particular, what is required is that in paragraph 1 the amendment to paragraph 5 be voted on separately and points 7, 8, 9 and 12 and in paragraph 2 be voted on separately and paragraphs 4, 11 and 12 be voted on together. That's what they're asking... well... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I say what happened to me by the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, I just went through that. If that transaction is not well done, it will be a question of agreeing. [[Murmurs.]] There are two paragraphs, i. e. two points; within each paragraph there are different points. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So in point 1 the Left Gaga Alternative Group separately asks for number 5, fifth point, and then point 7, 8, 9 and 12 asks for a joint vote. So this is paragraph 1. Paragraph 2 calls for a separate vote of point 7 and points 4, 11 and 12 which can be voted together. So we started the vote. The first is to vote, within paragraph 1, point 5. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry, within the point, we'll stop the vote... it's very important that you know what you're going to vote for, fundamental. Members need to know what will be voted on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Are we? So, let's start. First, we voted point 5 of paragraph 1. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Point 1 item 5 vote on the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 47; abstentions, 23. The voting is positive. This number is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u150	We are voting together now... If you pay attention, it's easier; if you don't, it's a little complicated, eh! [[Murmurs.]] We now vote under paragraph 1, points 7, 8, 9 and 12. We vote. Vote of paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 12 of point 1 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 61. The result of the vote is negative. These numbers are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u151	And now we are voting, within paragraph 2, first of all, point 7. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then take it easy. [[Murmurs.]] Vote for point 2 7 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 48; abstentions, 22. The voting is positive. This number is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u152	And now we are voting together on paragraphs 2, 4, 11 and 12. We vote. Vote of paragraphs 4, 11 and 12 of point 2 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 10; votes against, 61. The result of the vote is negative. These numbers are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u153	And now we're voting on the rest of the motion. We vote. Vote for the rest of the transacted text points of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the practice of prostitution in Galicia and the demands to be made by the Central Government in that regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u154	I got the groups to come up with an institutional statement that I'm going to read below. Please pay attention, please. "Last March 3, 2016, he was murdered in Honduras Berta Cáceres, an indigenous representative for more than 20 years at the Civic Council of People's and Indigenous Organizations in Honduras. Berta was a strong human rights defender and activist, symbol of indigenous and peasant struggle and prominent environmental rights fighter, especially in the face of mega- and hydro-electric projects. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights had claimed special protection measures for the environmentalist for the risk of being assaulted or killed, as it finally did, without such measures being taken, as had just been reported by the United Nations. Berta's death is embedded in a general tone of violence in the Honduran country, where activists and journalists are killed and killed with total impunity. The Galician Parliament, in order to defend human rights, freedom and social justice, condemns the vile murder of activist Berta Cáceres and calls on the Government of Honduras to investigate these facts that respect the framework of international legality and the standards laid down for investigating such crimes. Even so, he expresses his condolences to his family, his companions, and his companions, and he claims for them and for them protection, under the rights and freedoms contained in the Charter of Human Rights." [[Adopted by consent.]] Thank you very much. We then turn to item 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to the full attendance. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor for the Rural Environment, on his own request, to inform the Dairy Sector Strengthening Plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u155	For the first intervention, the rural councillor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I would like to point out today, my own request, to take account of the establishment of the first steps of the plan for strengthening the milk sector, which took place on 2nd of this month. I believe that the problem of the sector must be addressed from a broader perspective than we have seen so far, and we also welcome the agents directly involved, others who, because of their experience and specificity, can bring new points of view and also open new ways of action. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to tell you what our expectations are all about, but first of all, I want to give you a little overview of the situation we're living right now. Galicia has important strengths in this field, such as our optimal edaphoclimatic conditions for milk production. Studies conducted by the Community institutions place the dairy districts of Galicia, our region, among the best conditions for milk production. The difference between other production areas in the European Union, currently in Galicia, there are no environmental problems that can limit the extension of milk production. We have a professional producer sector with good facilities. Particularly in 30% of farms 70% of Galician dairy production is engulfed. We have a high-genetic dairy cabin and a very high health status. We aggregate approximately 38% of milk production in Spain. This concentration of production in Galicia and the forecasts of better sized producers to increase their production in the short term arouses the interest of investment industries in Galicia. Only in this call have projects been submitted for transformation of more than 155 million euros. As for industrial installations and the collection infrastructure, we have a great capacity to treat very important milk, although primarily focused on getting UHT. Associated with it, an important collection infrastructure is operational with transport companies, buyers, collection centers, among others. Industries and producer groups, i.e. cooperatives, showed and showed interest in making investments in Galicia to obtain high-level dairy products added and growing demand. Although all this allows us to be optimistic, our weaknesses are also important, especially because we are not organized enough. Although, as I said, there is an interest in investing in transformation, we continue to transform very little. We must also increase the territorial base of our farms. Ladies and gentlemen, all these reasons and also – as could not be otherwise – for the contingency situation in which we find ourselves, I decided to create a working group to address and decide short, medium and long-term actions and strategies. This is the plan for strengthening the Greek milk sector, which was born with the spirit of permanence in time. This decision was motivated by the multiple meetings we saw with all the agents involved: agrarian organizations, livestock associations, industry, distribution... both individually and jointly, and also at internal meetings that took place with different consultants. There was a lack of union, however, where all the information was put on the table, on the table, which is vital for decision-making and also determination-making. We also held meetings at all territorial levels: at local, comarcal level, with the Ministry, as well as with representatives of the European Union. And everything for the sole purpose of achieving a minimum of stability for the sector, making all the links in the chain participated. The Galego Agrarian Council has unanimously given its visa and pleasure to the creation of this working group and, above all, because each and every one who composes it and those who will compose it moves us a single and common interest: to strengthen our dairy sector. We'll only move forward if we're able to stick together. I hope, sooner than later, the set changes and the plan can be dedicated for a while to design the plan for the future, fed by all the agents who compose it and those I'm now going to mention. On the one hand, the university, which is essential for its knowledge of the present and future economic scenario of the dairy sector. The experts, who have known reality and the situation for many years, with the memory of fruitful past actions and others who haven't been so much. Research, using scientific studies that evaluate and value our product and therefore its consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the presence of this part has greatly drawn attention to the members of the plan, but I assure you that the point of view it has given us at the meeting is going to be essential for future action. Technicians, who, with their daily follow-up to the stage through the management and management of legislation, are fundamental to this working group. Agrarian organizations, like voicers of the uneases of their day-to-day gain. Cooperatives, such as organisational and sector-revertebration structure. Control and management agencies, such as monitoring and ensuring the quality of our milk and the viability of the farms. Industry, the second link in the chain, sustains the added value of dairy products. The distribution, which is the third link of the chain and the true link between the gainee and the final consumer. And finally, the Administration, as promoters and guarantors. At the first meeting we discussed above all the measures to propose to Brussels from Galicia through the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment, the lines to be followed towards the meeting that took place yesterday. We are the first Spanish community and the ninth European milk-producing region and therefore we need to have a specific weight in milk-related negotiations. It was yesterday when the Council of Ministers for Agriculture of the European Union was held, where the proposals of the Member States were discussed. The agreement at the plan meeting – and it was moved immediately to the Map – was as follows: transparency in all links in the chain, as well as measures to regulate the market that avoid practices such as loss of sales. The conjunctural rise in milk intervention prices in dust and butter as well. Equalizing the marketing conditions of all the countries of the European Union, so that at least the same guarantees of quality of milk are offered to us. The strengthening of consumption in the internal and external markets of the European Union. Increases in Inlac's competences, allowing it to adopt temporary measures or establish tools to contain the supply or self-regulation of the market without jeopardising the proper functioning of the internal market, and thereby contributing to the stabilization of the sector. It is also necessary to have a specific European and national legislation for these exceptional actions that avoid competition problems. These measures have already been requested before by the European Union's Heads of Markets and Development on a journey that since the Rural Council, together with technicians, has been carried out in Brussels, but which were later validated by the plan to strengthen the German dairy sector, in addition to agreeing to apply for a further measure also transferred to the Ministry. In the first month and mid-year 2016 the volume of milk powder offered to intervention –44,600 tonnes – already exceeds that of the 2015 set, 40,000 tonnes. The European Milky Way Observatory estimates that in the second half of April we will reach 109,000 tonnes of the top set by the European Commission to intervene in powder at a fixed price, which would result in, if there were no regulatory changes, intervention would be made at a variable price by a auction-down system. For this reason, it was necessary to request the increase of the established intervention ceilings. You tell me that each and every one of the demands has been duly transferred by the minister to Brussels, in addition to going even further there, working on a financial instrument to ensure investments in agricultural holdings so that they remain competitive. But this is just the emergency, there's a lot more work to be done. After the signing of the dairy agreement in September and although there are already some points that are being developed and others that have been developed, there are others that need to be addressed. With the plan to strengthen the milk sector, we intend to carry out a thorough follow-up and analysis of the agreement, and for this reason we urge the Ministry to proceed, on the one hand, with the Order of First Buyers. The regulation of the role of the first milk buyers is of great importance and transcendental to Galicia. The draft decree is already public, and its importance is given because in our community the first buyers gather about 30% of the milk produced. In the second draft, all first buyers will have to communicate to the Administration the prices and quantities they sell to other buyers; in addition, they must comply with a minimum volume of deliveries, which will require the reduction of the number of first buyers. In addition, it makes a difference between the first processors, those who buy raw cow's milk to treat or transform it and can market-sell, and the other buyers, which is part of the milk purchased which is always for sale according to their main activity. And then there are the first buyers marketers, who buy milk from the livestock to market and sell to other buyers without any transformation on it. Other developments are that, in addition to mandatory declarations of the volume of milk price purchased to producers, the draft provides that the first buyer will be obliged to declare to the Unified Information System of the milk sector, Infolac, the quantities sold monthly to other buyers, with the indication of the price. All those first buyers who have already been registered as such and authorized by the Ministry will automatically be incorporated as authorized buyers. Another point is the source identification. And another line that we're working on, also included in the agreement, is the inclusion in the packaging of a distinctive seal that identifies the origin of the milk and its derivatives. In this sense, since June, the Ministry is also being asked for regulatory development in this sense. And there's already the price assignment decree. It is essential to provide greater transparency for the value chain of milk when you know those who meet and do not set it in the agreement. The Royal Price Dealing Decree appears as one of the measures provided for in that Agreement, and establishes the obligation by the industry to make public the data on the buying and selling prices of milk. So, we'll know the price of what industry buys, the price of the livestock and how it sells distribution as well. And here I would like to acknowledge the efforts being made by the Ministry to go ahead with this decree, which will undoubtedly come to an end and which is currently in the Council of State. Today we were all able to check first-hand the news about the Judiciary. Still, we wait, and I'm also sure this will be a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u157	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u158	Good afternoon, Counselor. The first thing I want to say is that today I'm going to talk about a plan I don't know. You just gave us a speech here, you tell us a version, but I really like to read it, not to be interpreted. So, I can only talk about an interpretation, of one, that you have now done here, and another is the interpretation that appears on the Council's website with a triumphal press note where there really is no plan, because a plan has to be drafted with the points, with the deadlines, with the budgets, with which you will carry this plan forward. And you don't present anything, you came here today to throw us a rally of propaganda about the dairy sector, you told us how the situation is, but there's nothing else, absolutely nothing else. They were now commenting on us and telling us, for example, why the working group is formed. I am the one who, within all the entities that are part of this working group, misses the unions, because in the industry and distribution workers and workers affected by the dairy agreements too, but, as always, workers and workers and unions are always out of the reach of the Galician Union. So, in the absence of a text, the position that we will take will be on the rally that you have just given now and on the press release that has moved to the media. The European Union must address once and for all the problems arising from its own policies. All this problem is the great failure of the European Union's policies, state policies in relation to the milk sector and the policies of the Union in relation to the German dairy sector. The elimination of quotas has led to a significant increase in production, and now Europe is coming to tell us that production can be lowered: let's put a leash in the breasts to the cows and that they don't give milk, because once you have the cows the milk will be. So, there are solutions that are kind of strange. At the state level, the situation shows the failure of the agreement for the sustainability of the value chain. The terms of the agreement are not being used to guarantee the price; it was useless, it did not offer legal certainty to producers and producers, everything depends on the goodwill of the industries and the chains of distribution. We're on a stage where all communities have increased their production in recent years and Galicia is one of the least growing, while others who weren't big producers have now begun to increase production; i.e., there was no planning nor even within the state predicting that there could be these surpluses. Data on prices paid for milk according to the territories also evolved in different ways. The price paid in the state as a whole dropped by 20.10%, but the price paid in Galicia dropped by 26.412%, in the face of starvation, lack of action, lack of activity, lack of leadership, from Galicia's own board, which allowed the Greek dairy sector to be broken down while the rest of the state paid more. This situation has led to a gradual closure of farms in our country which has not ceased in recent years. In Galicia, there are currently 9,132 farms that sell their animal milk to industries compared to 9,606 a year ago; that is, in one year they closed 474 farms. 68.6% of all holdings that had to be closed in the state as a whole closed in Galicia, almost 70%. Of course, he needs a plan, but not a plan like this, which comes through the back door and without much debate. The evolution of the amount of milk delivered throughout the European Union is also on the rise. In two years the increase was 7.34%. All member states, except Malta and Bulgaria, have increased their production in the last two years, but in a different proportion; so, for example, Ireland has increased by 30%; Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium, between 23% and 15%; Poland, almost 10%; Spain, 6.8%; and Galicia is the least, 4.8%. And, by the way, we have the worst conditions in every state and all of Europe; we are the least paid for milk. So I think you have a lot of work to do. The evolution of prices paid for milk varies also within the European Union, where it came down by an average of 23.75 per cent; that is, also under the descent it suffered in Galicia. On the Greek farms on download was from 39 cents – which was paid in 2013 – to 28.7; more than ten cents of difference in two years. But the most dramatic of the situation is about to arrive due to the seasonality of the lactation curves of the cows, which is where the greatest increase in production is expected between the months of February and May; i.e. the problem is already there. There are emergencies in the sector that cannot wait for a medium-term thinking strategic plan, although it is essential that this medium- and long-term strategic plan to organize the dairy sector, like the farms that are selling milk at 18 cents or which have threats that will close their collection; a problem that they already have above, for example, the farms of the Codegui cooperative, to whom Celta cancelled their collection. You said there's a great interest in the processing industries by installing in Galicia and transforming milk into Galicia, what we really don't know is that the farms are suffocated because the industry doesn't pick up their milk, or it intends to collect it at prices under the cost of production. So I'd like you to tell us, if maybe, that industries are interested, what is planning, where they want to be installed, what is the project, how many jobs they're going to create, all that, and not stay in what industries are and what there's interest in. Tell us something else about that. It is urgent that all farms have guarantees of delivery of a volume of milk at a sustainable price, and, as the Galician Labour Union claims, there is also a need for control of the fate of all milk that is being sold at milk prices in powder, so that it can be found that that milk is actually destined for milk in powder. There's no milk left in the state, because milk is being imported precisely to bring the price down to the products of our farms. Sector organizations urge to implement as soon as possible the identification of the origin of dairy products, which, as appears in the press release and now you have commented, is one of these measures contained in this plan; the labelling of milk and all its derivatives, where their origin is said to be said, and also a shock plan with mediums of urgency that go beyond formulas that do not solve these pressing problems that are condemning farms to poverty and closure. You warn the Milk Sector Defense Platform of the need for an immediate solution to the farms that are threatened with not collecting their milk, and in that there has been no progress, at least that you have now commented on here; there is no new kind of commitment to this situation. So it gives the feeling that we're in a dilatory campaign -- to see if this is spreading and the farms are just open that they're able to absorb businesses, industries in Galicia, and the rest of them shut down. Apart from the problem itself, it is paradoxical that as we talk about surplus milk, that there is more production than the company can catch, we have a lot of humanity going hungry and lots of children and children without receiving milk, without access to adequate food. So there are also organizations that claim that these surpluses are used in humanitarian aid, removing the surplus so they can start again from a much safer position. We live in a self-destructive, ill, inhuman and unsustainable system that is being maintained by these policies that bring about the European Union. But, apart from these reflections, the truth is that the crisis in the Greek dairy sector is going through, there is no visible solution. It should be noted that since the agreement was signed in September, it has only increased by 0.5 cents the liter of milk paid to the livestock. In the plan for strengthening the dairy sector, as you said, the urgent measures that there will not be an immediate solution, since I understand that I would also have to include a development of that plan, a regulation of that plan and the steps that will be taken for that plan. The rest is pure propaganda. So – it ends my time – I think there is nothing. If there was something, it would be published; if there was a plan, it would be published, we would be discussing concrete proposals, budgeted, with a deadline in due time. Now all we have is propaganda from a state-wide initiative that will be taken to Europe, but which does not defend the Greek interests, but simply goes as a proposal within the Ministry that does not differ from Galicia as a community, the largest milk producer and the most damaging to European policies and the treatment the State is giving to the sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u160	Good afternoon. Counsellor, we thank you for coming to take note of the group's first steps towards strengthening the Galician dairy sector. No time! You haven't just arrived at the Government, it's been seven years, and it turns out that in the last year of legislation, of Mr Feijó's second legislate, the different parts of the sector come together to define strategies for the future. Well, that's great! It's too late for you. I think future strategies had to be defined by you years before the quota system was finished and what happened and what's going on. Then he began by saying that he was going to talk about a summary of the current situation and the current problem. Counsellor, is there any problem? Is something wrong? In the previous plenary session, when I asked you, you said that nothing happened, that the farms that were closing was that they had to close because they were small, they didn't have enough dimensions and they weren't competitive, and that the model was therefore going to large and competitive farms, and that they had to close those that aren't competitive. This is the law of the market. Counselor, is something wrong or is it wrong? Because what I want to ask you is, if you're betting on a model in which you follow this silent conversion that's been produced in the dairy sector of closing dairy farms, because you think that's the way this country should go, because you're doing very well; you're doing very well. At the rate they're going, they're going to go to that sector. But what I ask you is, what do you want us to live in this country? What do you want us to live in this country? Because it's obvious that we could be in the model that you say: less dairy farms, but those people stayed in the countryside working in an industrial sector that you helped build, or in the diversification of agricultural or economic activities in rural areas that you helped build. But that's not it. You're betting on a model of closure of dairy farms, and those people either go to emigration or go to the Atlantic axis, to cities, to work on the precarious model that you implement with your policies. They are not reducing the primary sector to increase the industrial sector or the trade sector in rural areas, and you are leaving the primary sector without future, and they have not been able to create an industrial sector of milk processing in this country. And they haven't just arrived, they've been in government for many years. You're talking about the edaphoclimatic conditions of Galicia. Well, it's quite fine as an analysis that we have good edaphoclimatic conditions; that's what I suppose you won't assign to Mr. Feijóo. We have a professional sector. Well, we have a high-quality glove cabin for a particular model; that model for which you bet, certainly not for another type of model. And he talked about investments in the industry. Counsellor, do you have any concrete plans to present us here for the milk industry? Do you have any strategic plan to get the milk sector out of this problem through the creation of some milk processing group, of any kind? Do you have anything specific to offer us in this, Counselor? Seven years after Government Feijóo, do they have something concrete to offer us, more than ordinary subsidies, help for the transformation that comes out of the DOG annually? Do you have any plans? Well, if you have any plans, that's what you have to come here to say. I haven't heard it, but if you want to tell me, I'm very glad to hear it. You said the sector has an ejacism, they're disorganized, and you cited the territorial base. And I would also add what we just said to him: industrialization. And, in this respect, what do you balance the performance of the People's Party Government in these years? Have you helped have a territorial ordination that facilitates land-use and land-based production? Can you make a positive balance in spatial planning? Are you satisfied with the new Land Law, which will have a negative impact on land management in the rustic soil, which lowers even the minimum surface to build in the rustic soil? Have you helped vertebrate the sector, Counselor? Have you helped with acts like Milk Food to have a group of Greek milk, Counsellor? That's what I should come here to tell you. Then he also spoke about the meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. You promised to ask – I suppose – to raise intervention prices. Did you get anything about it? Have you accepted the European Union – the Council of Ministers – increased intervention prices? That's what you should come here to say. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is also a bit contradictory, Counsellor, that you in the negotiations of the common agricultural policy came here, one full after another, to defend the model of deregulation and greater liberalization, to eliminate the mechanisms of regulation of production. And now they're going to demand that production regulation mechanisms be restored! It's just that they're giving up blind poles; they seem to move only because of the possible electoral wear that this has in their party, but it's nothing consistent with their position. You came here to sell us the motorcycle that market liberalisation was going to be positive for Galicia, because we were going to be able to export a lot of liquid milk to Mexico and China. And we're tired of telling them that Galicia was in the worst condition to face a liberalisation horizon, because we had the evases – which were now reflected in the current situation – that we didn't have a normative framework that guaranteed what you just said again here: that there was abuse of the position of domination of distribution. We didn't have it before and we don't have it now. There were three agreements in this legislation that promised to improve the balance of the milk chain. Effectiveness, zero, zero! The September agreement, effectiveness, zero; we didn't have an organized, crafted sector, a regulatory framework that guaranteed a balance in the milk chain. We didn't have the industrialization of fixed milk, as they do in Asturias, as they do in Euskadi and as they do in France. We didn't have it, and it's already noticed at the prices you perceive each one. And we didn't guarantee that we could compete on equal terms as far as the territorial base. And despite all this, you didn't prepare for the end of the quota system. You yourself in a recent interview said you weren't ready for the end of the quota system. There was an obvious lack of foresight. You haven't been preparing this horizon for years, and, of course, those who lose are people. I used to say, "What are you going to live in this country, Counselor?" What is this country going to live from if the dairy farms continue to close at this rate, when you are also not making policies to develop another kind of agricultural sector in rural areas? What is this country going to live on? And there's one thing: that when you talk about the goodness of the purification of the market, that the strongest survive, of the agrarian Darwinism, forget that they are people, and that there are people who are experiencing it very badly right now when they see that what they pay doesn't give them to cover costs. And then you have to be so that this country can live from something, have economic activities that allow it to live from something and not emigrate, and leave rural, as it is happening. As much as you deny it, the data are there: the average age in rural areas, the depopulation of rural areas and the abandonment of lands in this growing country. What is this country going to live on? And then you have to look at those people. And finally, what are you going to do with the competition laws and the National Competition Market Commission? That's not named by divine right, is it? The National Competition Market Commission is appointed by someone, and competition laws are passed by someone. Do you still think that the best way to Galicia is to deregulation and liberalization? Or do you think there is a need to introduce regulatory mechanisms to protect farmers and farmers in this country? Deregulation and liberalization are contradictory to the conservation of small agriculture, and in Galicia, above all, we have small agriculture and we have to put on protective mechanisms. It does not sell motorcycles, the evil called "free market" is not free market for the owners, it is obviously free market for distributors, which also have bodies like the National Competition Market Commission that work for them. What are you going to do with this body that says you can't put the geographical indication, agreed on in the September agreement, because that distorts the functioning of the market? Here above everything in the pyramid is "the proper functioning of the market". It's a religion, and we want to put it on top of the pyramid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u161	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u162	...the peasants and the landowners of this country, who are not above all the good functioning of the market. And they've also just told you that even that price transfer decree, which also took time to elaborate it, eh! Because I've already drafted a decree... Man, I don't know how many months we've been since September. Five months? He's also fine to write a decree! But he has just issued a report to the National Competition Market Commission that also warns that this... of course, giving information on how much distribution pays, industry, and all those prices, too much transparency for the proper functioning of the market. Let us see what you are going to do, because if you continue to embrace – and I am finished, Mr President – the religion of the free market, the horizon is clear: few farms, very large, rural depopulation and no alternative for rural people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u163	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor for the Rural Environment, you have asked to come to this Parliament to discuss the plan for strengthening the dairy sector. We, of course, thank him for finally coming to this Parliament to talk to us about this plan, but I have to admit to him that I have a tremendous frustration, because, in fact, first, he does not send us a scrap of the plan. It is limited to practice and only to telling us who the people who are summoned to that forum are. He does not give us any information about which are the strategic lines of that plan. You spoke in the short, medium and long term, but until now, of course, you don't know what those measures are. We, from the Galego Nationalist Block, do not question that Galicia should have a plan to strengthen the dairy sector in which we contemplate the strategic measures that must be put in place. But do you have any for tomorrow, for last morning, for next week, for April? Do you have any plans for then? Another question I wanted to ask you. I would like to see you, Madam Counsellor, if you may, to tell us whether you can proceed with the development of a plan without having previously evaluated the measures that you have theoretically launched with previous actions, such as the famous Jurárez Strategic Plan, or the measures of the successive agreements you have signed to strengthen and regulate the dairy sector in our country. We would also like – and that should be the first thing you should do, Counselor – since you did not have the capacity to anticipate or the best will of advance to draw up a plan for Galicia and her dairy sector to address in conditions at least not so disadvantaged the stage after April 1, 2015, of disappearance of quotas, which at least you had done an analysis. If they're going to make a plan, at least they should do an analysis of what the current situation in the dairy sector is and how this situation has affected the sector in both Galicia, the state and the European level. Because look, Counselor, there are several unquestionable facts. One of them is that in Galicia during 2015, between January 2015 and January 2016, 527 dairy farms of the 770 disappeared in the state, more than 70%. And that seems to you that doesn't concern her; simply, it's limited to saying that in the Bipartite they were also missing. Well, for you, fat bitch, Counselor. But the truth is we're already below, the latest official data are from January and we were on 9,079 farms; today we're under 9,000 farms in the Greek dairy sector. And do you have any strategy for that, Counselor? Counsellor, every week, every day that passes is the most dairy farms in our country that, first of all, have a threat of stopping them from milking by first buyers or industries, and then they have to sell the intervention price at less than 20 cents a litre. Do you have any strategy for that? There's even a cooperative, Counselor, who says that before that situation happened, days before or weeks before, they contacted you to see if they were offered or helped them find a solution. And he says the person in charge of that cooperative, "The Council was neither expected nor expected." And by the way, it also says something similar about Inlac, which is where you encrypt the resolution of all the problems. Do you have any immediate strategy – especially now that spring is about to begin and therefore there is an increase in production – in relation to the prices and the guarantee of milk collection, beyond what you told us that you had the assurance from the industries that they were going to collect amounts identical to those produced in 2015, that they would guarantee? But you didn't tell us at what price you guaranteed that. At market price? The market price at 60%, 70, 80, and the rest of the percentage at intervention price, from milk to powder? You didn't clear that up, Counselor. He didn't make it clear to us either, because the last time he talked about this, his general director said that in Galicia there were about four percent of the livestock that were selling under 20 cents, that is, at the intervention price. Agrarian professional organizations say they're more, and they say that every day, every week, there's more, they're forced to sell at that price. Are you doing any follow-up from both the first buyers and some industry that is specialized in buying for milk in powder but that is also dedicated to packing milk for white brands, liquid milk? Are you doing some sort of follow-up, some sort of check-up, to verify that there is no fraud on the part of the industries and the first buyers in using milk powder? Counselor, we'd like you to give us some explanation, because we're very confused about that. You've made here an assertion – given here as a scientific truth – that I believe that all of us here are by discounting that this is so. You said you had a lot of strength in our dairy sector because we had some ideal edaphological and climate conditions that placed us among the best regions for milk production. If this is so – which is so, I believe it is so – I would like you to explain to us why, if we are from the European regions with better conditions for milk production, we are the region of the Spanish State practically which has increased its milk production in recent years, not only in the last year, but only since 2013. And he could explain to us why Andalusia – which I think does not have those good conditions – or Extremadura is increasing its production, why Galicia increases its production to half the average of the Spanish state and four times less than Andalusia. And, curiously, we would also like you to look for an explanation of why, being Galicia where less is increasing production, it's where the prices go down the most. And curiously where the prices go higher is where the production goes higher. And this is crazy to me. I've already asked all economists in this House to explain it to me, because I always thought the thing was different – from supply and demand – and it turns out that I'm upset now. I am of letters, but up there I had come to the thing of understanding the market. We've been reporting a phenomenon here more than a year ago, all groups of the opposition to the relocation of milk production in our country, and you, as you see rain, Counselor. But there's another question. The Greek dairy sector is losing weight in state production, we are already under 38%; but we also lose political weight. Of course, the position of the Galician Union no longer paints anything, because you have renounced Galician leadership in the demands and political positions of the dairy sector in the state. But there's another data. That you dismantle all the instruments that were to act in the dairy sector in Galicia also led to the dismantling of some of the instruments that were in the sector, such as the Galician Industry Association, which causes you, as you don't look at anything in the dairy sector, or even Fenil considers it to be an interlocutor, because you didn't say you didn't even say that you had come to the meeting that called the industries, because Fenil, like her predecessor, you don't consider her to be an interlocutor. Of which, Counselor, I assure you, I'm not glad, because I think it's dramatic for the Welsh dairy sector. The measures of the Ministry that are not disqualified by the sleep sector – as has already been said and I am not going to put much into this because I do not have time – by the National Competition Commission, which, in fact, places on its frontispicity that market rules should be respected instead of the rights of the owners and the governors. Finally, the agreements adopted in Brussels. Of course, their success and that of the Magram can mean that they get a round suspension. It was not possible to increase intervention prices or milk in powder or butter; what was actually achieved was to increase the amount submitted to this public intervention; but neither a penny, nor a half cent did it increase the intervention price. You haven't even been able to take such a common sense forward as there was a public intervention by the European Union to extract market surpluses and allocate them to humanitarian aid to those hundreds and thousands of people that we are contributing from this infamous European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u165	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u166	...to bury in the muds of Eastern Europe. And you didn't even get that. They have achieved no other measure than the European Union telling us that what we have to do is to control ourselves and stop producing milk, but without any public instrument. I'd like to, Counselor, to know what you've planned to do about it. Do you want to come out here and tell the gentlemen that they have to organize themselves and that they are the yellow thugs who stop producing? Or will it promote a state-level agreement to decide where the state is produced, how and how, where the production is reduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u167	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u168	...and, above all, who has to pay for surpluses? Is it always about some gain or is it going to share the payment of what's going to cost the whole of those surplus sectors? Or are they going to demand – what would be logical – that this be done at the European Union level? Or will you keep swallowing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u169	End, please, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u170	...that here we have to stop producing milk to continue being the squeezing of milk left over by the French? Counsellor, if you really want us to believe you're willing to do something about the dairy sector, don't come and tell us about what's going to happen in three years. Come and tell us you've been planning on tomorrow, last morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u172	...in fifteen days, to save the 9,000 remaining farms in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u174	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u176	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. It was a joke, wasn't it? This is a parliamentary plot, and you in the second intervention really are when you're going to expose the plan, to catch us off guard; if not, call it plan...; it's a very small plan, eh!, very small. I don't think even if the president has just given up the margarita and decides if the elections are in progress and, therefore, we are in elections in two or three months, he doesn't even get enough for that, eh! counsellor. The plan that you outlined doesn't even give you for those two months to entertain us. It's neither plan nor strengthening, nor, of course, having any kind of credibility. And you don't have it, first, because you refused – and Mrs. Pacín is a faithful witness – more than fifty initiatives where it was precisely requested that this forum be created. But of course, Counselor, late, piano. This was four or five years ago, six years ago, seven years ago. When we asked for this, it was five, six, seven years ago... and that it did make sense; and it doesn't mean that it doesn't have it now; another thing is utility. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And so – so we understand it – in medical terms – and I've already exposed it here on other occasions – to do physical exercise, to take care of the diet, to stop smoking is in the long run; when we enter the infarction in the operating room, we first stabilize it, we prevent it from dying and then we prescribe it when it goes to the house that does the exercise, that as well, it stops smoking and that all these things. But at that moment of entry into the surgery, we can't prescribe a diet for you, it's not at the moment. And that's what we're in the dairy sector right now. So it's neither plan nor much less strengthening. Our gloves are neither for plans nor for strengthening – believe me – at least 20%, which is now charging 18 cents per liter. What are you going to talk to those farms that are charging 18 cents a litre? What do they have to strengthen themselves? What do they have to strengthen themselves of what? We'll have to be talking to them about whether they can hold on for another month, or if they're holding up for another 15 days or if they're holding up for another week before they close. And that's the situation you have on the table. And, Counselor, after seven years, it is inconceivable – and even after almost six months you've been an advisor – that you come here today with this. You've already lost all the time you really had to lose, you've drowned completely all the losses that had to be drowned, you've failed in all the legislation that they drew and that they promised us solutions every time they brought out a new legislation. Although we told them that it was wrong because there were no fundamental aspects to it to work, they came here saying that we were catastropheists and negativeists and that we never created in the country and that we were against everything. They have already failed absolutely at all and each step they have taken. The last, indeed – as was mentioned here – yesterday's. I don't know how many meetings you've had, and we always welcome the meetings in every statement that there's going to be a meeting, and they meet that basic rule of every meeting which is that the first point of the meeting, which we know in advance, is that at the end of that meeting we have to have another meeting next week. Those phases have all been burned, and the results have not been so far. Yes, they have a face to make statements that are absolutely enviable, in political terms. How can you say Mr. Feijóo, how can you say, how can Mrs. Tejerina say before yesterday: "Actually, the measures we put on the table are not working"? And so quiet! And you said it, and Mr. Feijóo, and his predecessor. Was it necessary to get to that situation to know that those measures would not work? If we've been saying it from the beginning, we and everyone; you were the only ones who said it would work. Did they have to close the farms they closed for the last three years? Did we need the mobilizations? Was it necessary that in Galicia, where we have the lowest prices in the state, our owners continue to have today the threat of leaving...? – indeed, we have already spoken about it, Mrs. Paz and I agree. Blessed market! What market is this where milk is cheaper and, therefore, the buyer should be where he wants to buy first and where he tells him to let it go without picking up as a previous step to then buy it at 18 cents, say it goes to dust and then it turns out he's not going to dust but to return to the market? And you come with a strengthening plan saying that we're going to sit on a table and that we're gonna be all good and get along. How long do you need to understand, Counselor? That sitting at a table and taking us all well is thirty years ago. There was no need for you to be appointed counsellor or for Mr. Feijóo to be president to reach that conclusion. The problem is that we don't get along well and that interests are counterbalanced. The problem is that interests are counterposted, and the problem is that I, industry, if you have a dominant position, and therefore I have the only commercial strategy, like many industries in this country, based on buying cheap milk to the producer, I'm not going to lose that dominant position and benefit because a Middle Rural advisor tells me. Counselor, you're overestimating yourself. Whoever makes those decisions probably doesn't even know who's the councillor in the middle of Galicia, nor does he care. So, that's what we're going to sit on a table and we're going to get along well, we're going to get along fine as long as there's effective measures, obligations and sanctions so that we're going to get hurt at the cost of money, if not, we're not going to get along well, because I'm what I have the dominant position. In short, the way of balance: the legislation that has developed the whole milk package is a real failure, and we say it in its own time, that its legislation would fail. It is not that the opposition is very clever and that the sector is very smart; no, it was obvious, it was completely reasonable, and given the precedents, legislation, not having a legal obligation, not having a sanctioning character and having no mediators who apply it and not having any of those elements that somehow coerce the industry, would not work. Therefore, absolute failure. Industrial policy. You come with industrial policy. Home!, from Milk Food – what, why are we going to talk about everything we've talked about? – and going through and ending, finally, with Lasurgal, who goes there – the 4.0 – advisor says they're going to multiply by five their production capacity and it turns out that six months later they're not able to absorb the 50-governed Codegui Co-operative milk in that 4.0, with which they're going to multiply by four to the 4 million euros we're going to invest with. So, industrialization, what is industrialization talking about? There is no industrialization project in this country beyond certain small things of cheese. In fact, do you know how much the cheeses in this country are? 2% of our milk. I mean, trying to solve that problem is going to take a few years, and you're not, you're a few months old. I told him on the first day that you were a few months old, Counselor, and, therefore, that he focused on two or three things. If you want to do the plan to get out of the paper, it seems perfect, but let's hope, at least, that now tells us the activity parallels it's more or less ambitious that it's going to make in the months that it's left. Well, the dairy agreement. Indeed, absolute failure. How many times have we said it here? Not even... not yet the decrees are published. Five months! Five months to make decrees? I told you the other day in the plenary, that of Ence was done quickly and authorized for 50 years. Five months to draft decrees in which we all agreed and there was no problem! And they're not even published yet. So what moral obligation will it have to fulfill any kind of covenant when the Administration, which should be the first to ensure that this agreement does not even comply with what is agreed upon? And negotiations with Europe, the last day of yesterday: there was absolutely no result, beyond that it had doubled, even tripled, the ability to buy, but indeed, without increasing the price; with which it will be little operational. The repetition of the Russian veto. I said – I told you one day – what the previous advisor said to me here when I said here that the Russian veto was the main problem, or one of the main problems, that I was going to have the Greek dairy sector, and said that I had no idea, what did Russia have to do with Galicia? That wouldn't affect us for anything. It's in there. [[Murmurs.]] But not once, not two, four or five. I mean, this is what we've had for these seven years. And they're still absolutely trusting something that... and you said it in the intervention, it's symptomatic, I think it's the subconscious. Let's hope there are better sets. Counselor, no one will come to fix the problem. Spain cannot wait for Europe to come to solve the problem, because Europe, some countries in Europe, are greatly benefited from Spain being in this situation. So, we can't ask the one who's somehow benefiting – and there they were given the data before, while Ireland grows by 20%, here we grow by 2% and while they have some price levels that pass from 35 cents, we have them here at 18 or 20 – that will help us solve the problem. Counselor, that no, that no one will come. No one in the state will come to fix it. While in Galicia we have 18 cents, in the rest of the communities they're increasing production and they're keeping a much higher price on us. So don't wait for anyone, Counselor, there won't be a better set. This either we put on and we fix it or, if not, it doesn't work out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u178	And he can't expect anyone to come and fix it. I hope that now, in the second intervention, tell us the plan. Because the plan, indeed, will be to sit down, which is not bad for you. We asked for it – I repeat – seven years ago, and I think it would be very useful. To be, but with premises and towards a horizon, and towards a path. You will have in mind some sort of action to be taken, political decisions, legislative decisions, budgets, industrial strategy, production strategy, which is marked in that plan. Or do they trust that plan and the operation of that plan to be agreed by the agents? The European Commissioner yesterday what she said, Counsellor, to the member states is: "Search for life,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u180	... Fix the problem in every state. And we should be the ones that have it easy to fix because we're still failing in our production. So, as long as we don't have a national strategy, and we're not going to have it at the state level, as long as Galicia doesn't want us to have it, we have no solution for the dairy sector, Counsellor. And we've seen this repeating it here in the last two years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u181	End, Mr. Garcia; end now, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u182	And you won't be a counselor, and I don't know whether I'm a Member either, but within seven years there'll be someone here from the Government saying that, indeed, that's what we had to do. Well, it's gonna happen the same way as everything that's been going on with all of them and every one of them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u183	Thank you. Mr. Garcia, stop it, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u184	...of the things we told him and the things he didn't give us any case. We'll wait now to see if you can tell us anything about that plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u185	Thank you, Mr. Garcia, your time is up. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. Madam Counsellor, we welcome you, and also to the audience that accompanies you from your homes, because we see that the rostrums are now empty, although during the debate they are responsible for agricultural union, responsible for agrarian organization; responsible, spokesperson for the Joint Group, not for trade unions, because if we have to start there, we are going wrong, when we want to make a correct diagnosis. Counsellor, you've seen that the opposition groups have really left you neither kindness nor any respect for the work of your advisor; a job that we value today because it's very necessary, a work that translates into a plan. I think Mrs. Paz did refer to Mr. Juárez's strategic plan, but the rest of the groups remember what they have or is because they weren't here or because they didn't really care about milk. They forget that in 2009, in a crisis that we inherited from milk, there were prices of milk in origin – let's remember – around the 25 cents, when now, for very weak increases that have been given in recent months, if we're talking about prices around 29 cents, of 28.8, which have been maintained since December and January. Then, in a difficult situation, the People's Party's governments inherited a lot of tasks to do, a lot of issues to cut. One of them was – as Mrs. Paz said – to shorten the closure of exploitation. Yes, then it was a growing pace, because now they shut down farms but not at the same rate. So it was 1,770/year; that is, it's a considerable number of farms. If we were to continue with those policies, with those alternatives, we wouldn't be talking about closure now. Every exploitation that closes, Mr. Sánchez, from AGE, really to the group I represent and to the Government hurts them, because it's an effort of a family, it's an effort of exploitation, which they're closing because they're not profitable, because it's not attractive to live in the countryside. Ah, of course, but you don't know that the farms you demand are exploits of survival. Or are there any dreary of those 100,000 farms that were in the 1990s, when there were a lot of people working in the field, but the competitiveness, the results, the profit margins weren't made like today – profitable exploitations, at the same level as other regions and at the same level as other member states? They spoke here about yesterday's meeting of the Council of Ministers at European level. And Mr. García, socialist, said that they don't recognize you in Europe, Counselor. Indeed, no case, because it cannot offend those who actually took delegations from the communities of Extremadura to defend the interests of the sea; those themselves were socialist governments. And even socialist governments didn't have any accurate forecasts of the disappearance of the quota system, because then the responsibilities didn't exist. Of course, now is when intervention measures are needed to regulate markets, Mr Sánchez, because it seems that markets are your enemy, and we want to remain leaders of milk production at national level and be able to speak Greek at national level, because both your predecessor, Counsellor, like you, really accompany the Ministry and really give him all the problems. But, Counsellor, with the strategic plans that have come demanding the opposition groups in recent months, calling them – as they said – study committees, follow-up committees of the dairy agreements, stable frameworks, really what you intended is what you announced in November, 20 November, that you presented to the Agrarian Council and what you now bring the first agreements, the first conclusions, the first proposals that transfer agents involved in the sector and many collectives that have a lot to say. But, Counsellor, don't expect the opposition to make proposals, put alternatives on the table that will help you to find the solution that the dairy sector demands, because it won't be that way. The only thing they want, as Mr Socialist said, is to remember election dates – and I don't say so, you said – which highlighted the reference to possible election dates with the presentation of this plan. I wanted to know, Mr. Garcia, if you really care about that election date because you don't have a candidate or you worry about it because since Greek socialism I am not able to defend the dairy sector where it interests, which is in the European Union, as they are defending it today and now. Because you claim that it is a major failure for Galicia and for the interests of our country that have not been overcome or that the intervention prices of butter and milk in powder have not changed. But if those were also the demands of neighbouring countries like France! So we all failed, too. I really think it comes here to show important issues, because, Counselor, you know how I was around milk, linked to milk almost since we were born, and that milk has overcome many crises. And the nationalist spokeswoman, when she had government responsibilities, then she said that the milk problem was national, that the Greek context had very limited competences. So he was paraphrasing other petty voices in this House, and, of course, his credibility was the right thing to do. Now at least try to respect the credibility of the mobilisations of other countries. Because, Mrs. Paz, in Portugal there are mobilizations, in France there are mobilizations; we are faced with a difficulty, in the face of a crisis in the dairy sector. And both the Ministry and the Council are, since you've begun to lower the price of milk at the beginning, by making shortcuts, by putting solutions... you can really fix me because this humble voicer is not able to solve the milk problem, but I assure you that between all of us and together we are going to get it. [[Murmurs.]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, what has been highlighted here – and in recent months it has been shown – is that there is a disorganization of production, and even regulations enacted by the People's Party governments that have come to give legal support to producer organizations have not been sufficient. Because here the great failure, the great water, are the dairy producers' organizations. And don't tell me, as I'm often told, that I'm blaming the producers for not joining; no, ladies, because really the producers who move me day by day are that they need to join, because in those small farms at 18 cents they first talk about not collecting it and after they're going to pay them at 18 cents and that's going to be the price for milk in powder. You know there are inspections and it will be controlled that this does not translate into sale of liquid milk cartons, because regulations are always accompanied by controls, inspections and sanctions. And right now they're applying and correcting, firstly with different inspection activities that have been carried out over the past few months in the area of the Sustainability Control Plan, even the AICA, in coordination with communities, from the council and from our autonomy, controlling the origin of milk and tank trucks, and now also controlling – and by the means I send, and to you and your declarations – that will be in milk in powder and not in liquid milk. Because here you want to believe that the government's actions will not produce fruit or give solutions to demands. And the producers know that where they have to look is exclusively for the Government, it's exclusively for the parliamentary group to which I belong, because there are no other alternatives, there are no proposals that come to evidence... during all these months if a lot has been discussed about milk, if questions such as the topic of the territorial base, issues such as the media, increases in production. Really, Counsellor, Galicia continues to lead, Galicia has some price differentials of milk with other regions... Mrs. Peace, as when you ruled, because in very few moments that differential did not exist or was positive. But you know Galicia has some conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u187	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u188	...endogenouss that really make it difficult, as a peripheral producing zone, to depend on the production or marketing of liquid milk and, as mentioned here, on transformation. Ladies and gentlemen, we have always remembered the failures, but we must also remember the impulses, from public investments, from the government's support for transformation. It's a lot of the industries that have settled in Galicia that over the last few months and over the last few years have increased, increased, their facilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u190	...to be able to accommodate all the milk that is produced here. But let's not forget, Mr. Sánchez, of the D.O., that we have four D.O.s. production of cheeses, or that we have an ecological agriculture where eco-milk has a very competitive price. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look forward, and this strengthening plan will now be part of the solution. But, I repeat, we will have to unite. The dairy producers' organizations will have to work, just as they do in other communities, with the same rules, they will have to join the cooperatives, because they're still small and many...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u191	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u192	Really, Counselor, it's a hard job for you to do, but the gaine can only look at you because the policy alternatives of opposition groups are not known, you don't know what they want, just criticize the government of what you're responsible for. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs. García Pacín. Replica from the Middle Rural Counsellor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I hope to answer some of the questions they asked me this afternoon. First, tell Mrs. Martínez that like I used to skip some of the lines I read, but the clear agrarian organizations that are in the Milk Strengthening Plan, within that working group, would lack more! There's Agricultural Unions, there's the Galician Labour Union and it's Asaja. There are many other organizations that have asked to be, but we understand that these are the most representative, those that are within the Agrarian Council, and therefore they are part of this working group. I'd like to have made much more progress, of course, but I think, however, we can be satisfied. Galicia is pleased because it is the first time at a table that we are able to be universities, researchers, agricultural organizations and their own owners through these agricultural organizations, industry, distribution, administration, sitting on the same table to dialogue, sitting on the same table to project plans. And the results are in sight. The first were all the premises that we transferred to the Ministry, with a single voice, the voice of that working group that is part of the milk strengthening plan for the future. On the other hand, I am glad that Mrs. Paz and Mr. García agreed; I believe that this is not the first time that they agree. He ruled a bipartisan, and at that time there had to be no trouble. At that time there were dairy cuts, at that time it had to be regulated the market and at that time those who are children of cattle, we know how it was charging the milk: some also at 18 cents, but none exceeded the 25 cents. To this we must add, Mr García and Mrs Paz, that, in fact, as Mrs Pacín said, every little time, and at a screech pace – i.e., per year – 1,770 farms were missing. This rate has slowed down in the last six years, where, indeed, 3,000 farms have been lost – of course they have lost. But it's 70% less than when I rule the Bipartite. And it wasn't the perfect storm, the current storm, where first were the quotas, where, in fact, there was information biased and interested or simply unknown by different political groups, but also organizations, which eventually made the owners have to make large investments so that the quotas now disappear and, indeed, without a plan. Because the plan above the table the European Commission has not given its fruit and, therefore, they do not hurt us by clothing here in saying so and demanding different strategies. I mean, on the other hand, I don't remember who it was, but I think it was also Mrs. Peace that said they didn't respect us and, therefore, that Fenil was neither expected nor expected. Well, I have to say that the industry has been represented, but also that through a communiqué and in writing it will be the director of Fenil who represents the industry at the next meeting that will take place in the first week of April, because they're going to be monthly meetings, and it's not to pass the procedure, but to work. And besides, I'm very proud, because all those who are sitting on that table pursue a single goal, which is mine, and which is to end as much as possible with the volatility of what the market is and, therefore, of our sector, and give a minimum of stability, as we deserve our farmers and our farms. They were talking about data and 18 cents. It is a drama, indeed, to charge milk for 18 cents, and not the hidden, of course, it is a drama; it is 4.4% of farms. That's there, and you can also consult, Mr. Garcia – and don't give it the head that doesn't –; it's 0.067% of production. Still, actually, it's a lot. They're waiting for us for hard months, and within those hard months they're waiting for us, they're actually putting themselves in a trap. And still putting those traps together, I think it's the first time the industry meets and we're able to reach a pact, and that pact is called collecting the same amounts as at least and in the same volume in 2015, and with price control. I would like you to be able to agree that it was 100% guaranteed, but indeed the industries operating in this territory are 90% of production, but not 100% of production. Do we have a plan? How are we not going to have a plan if he's also exposed? We have the RDP, EUR 1,186 million, of which EUR 500 million is intended entirely for the milk sector. And there's no need to hide here, of course, that they keep closing the farms. It's only bad that the minutes are up and, therefore, then everyone can't say what they want. Because that's why we're delighted with the life that they're missing, what I'm saying is that what we can't pretend is that they're still holding those farms that aren't profitable, that we want to condemn the children of those owners to continue with farms that aren't profitable, that the sector is being resizing, that it's going to be doing this for years, and that there's got to be competitive. And to be competitive, it's the winner who chooses which line to follow. We're actually on the 9,000 farms, 56% of the Spanish dairy farms. In January, we were actually in 9,606. It's true that the number of farms is decreasing, but it's also true that production continues to increase, and so it reflects on the different data, to which you can also have access. And why are the farms closed? Some of them aren't profitable, but most of them for retirement. What's been done over these months? He was talking about the failure of the dairy agreement. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that a dairy agreement is made of these characteristics. What I hope is that that dairy agreement is being met. He's actually going out ahead of the price transfer decree, and I'm pushing myself to the maximum. Well it's true that I'd like you to have been in a number of less months than we've been running it, but I hope it doesn't pass from the next fifteen days. And you know, in addition, Mr. García – and if not, I inform you – that you are on the Council of State right now. Today, indeed, the report of the Committee on Competences is being drawn up or made known, but despite all this, the Minister and the Ministry are going to continue ahead, and so the Government of Galicia demands it. And that dairy agreement also brings with it the regulation of the first buyers. No one approached him in Galicia. They pick up 30% of the production, and every bit of it makes us feel bad, we have to regulate it. And that's where we're at. And on the other hand, it's the origin of the products. You know that certain autonomous communities are not for work, but Galicia with its tessiture and also because it is worth it by the Greeks and the Greeks, the gloves and the gloves, chooses why in each pack you put the origin of the products, and we're going to get it, and so we're demanding it. Milk production in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, continues to increase. It's increased by 15 percent in the last five years. We're talking about 335,000 tons. The average production per holding, which rises to 210,000 kilograms, is an increase of 213% in the last ten years. The average number of livestock per holding has passed over the last six years from 18 to 28 heads, that is, 55% more. If you see the census of animals on farms in Galicia's dairy production, you have to tell them that from 2013 to 2015 only in breeders have increased to 9,552. If we're talking about all the animals in 17,790 heads. This gives us a picture of where Galicia is going, and that's where it's the sector that decides. We can't pretend to continue with the romantic Galicia of six cows, twelve cows and one more exploitation. We don't have to be afraid of being told to close these farms, because, although they are, they're not profitable for what they're working on. In recent times, a restructuring of the sector has been taking place in Galicia and Spain as a whole. Of course, the number of holdings decreases, but continues to increase production. Ireland has actually increased by 20% in the last year, and Spain has actually increased by 6% in the past year. But the same problem we have in Ireland, regardless of whether it asks for other measures through the Commission of the European Union, as you did yesterday. But that's why we have to stop addressing why they close these farms, and that's why we have to stop encouraging the big farms. If we do various studies, we note that there were many autonomous communities that had a percentage of the disappearance of farms above Galicia. Galicia is at 4.9%; Catalonia is at 5.3%; Castile and León at 5.7% and in Asturias, with which they always compare us – the truth is that I would like them to stop doing so because it has nothing to do with Asturias, of course, on farms, Galicia's future is much better than that of Asturias, and I hope that Asturias's will be good – the number of farms has decreased by 4.3%. By analyzing the evolution of the number of Greek dairy farms by production sections in the last eight years, we have seen a decline, mainly in those of less than 100,000 kilograms; they have decreased by 55%. From 100,000 to 200,000 kilograms, they decreased by 41%. Farms between 200,000 and 300,000 kilos 32%. But in parallel with this, it has gained in size, and the farms that are in sections of between 400 and 700,000 kilograms have increased by 54%, and in the farms of production tranches by more than 700,000 kilograms that percentage reaches 205%. Spain is one of the countries of the European Union which has increased its milk production most in recent years, except in the last year the case of Ireland. From 2010 to 2015, Spain's production increases by 13.1%, and has only been exceeded in these years by Poland, by 17.77%. And if we look at the latest evolution, that is, if we only took two years, 2012-2014, according to Eurostat, Spain is the country of the European Union which has increased its production by 9.17%. This increase in national production is mainly due to the evolution of Galicia, we follow that 38%. It is true that, depending on the month, we can be 38.5%, 38.9% or 37.9%, since in the last five years, from 2010 to 2015, our production, that of Galicia, increased by 15.8%, exceeding other communities that were appointed here by you, the case of Andalusia, which increased by 9.7%, Castile and León by 7.5%, Cantabria by 4.8% or Asturias by 4.6%; Galicia by 15.8%. So, contrary to the evolution of the number of dairy farms, production in Galicia has grown, and has done so significantly, indicating that farms that remain active acquire a greater productive dimension. And that's where the young people come into play, those trained young people who choose to take the exploitation that usually comes from their parents and who give them an important spin in order to have quality of life in rural life. We can't pretend that people live in rural areas without a minimum income, without a decent service and, therefore, without being able to live as they deserve. And there's the prices. We were actually talking about prices, and Galicia is currently 28.8 cents. We've been doing this for several months in a row, and I wish it had been another way. And we expect, of course, that with the increase that will now be during the spring we won't miss. We try to stop it, and we do it from the administration, but we also do it by hearing the hands of the industry and by holding the hand. In this line, it calls for the publication of the Royal Decree on mandatory declarations by cow-packed liquid milk manufacturers for new entrants and industrial operators. We know that the ministry had broken down, and we know that there were several ministries that had to report. But we know, in addition, that will be a reality. Milk collection. I'm worried about myself, we have to worry about everyone and worry about the gain. I don't think there's anything more anxiety than thinking that the next day someone doesn't pick up your milk. I can say that this doesn't happen to anyone today. Someone may say that the advisor is not or is not expected. I understand that there can be very few people who can say that. I can either fix the problem or not, I push myself to do it; now that I'm not and that I'm not expected, I understand that's not so. First, because they connect with me every day several individuals on an individual basis who don't know me at all. Second, because I'm in direct contact with cooperatives. And third, because when I see it still doesn't work, I'm no longer with the representatives of the cooperatives, but what I do is I gather them together, just like I did last Friday at 5:00 p.m. Yes, with a message, a message of strength, which is the union of cooperativeism in Galicia. That union of the 39 first buyer cooperatives that can't follow on that line, and the Middle Rural Council is going to hold them hand to follow other channels, and that channel has to be the one of strengthening through transformation. From my meetings with the main dairy industries operating in Galicia – I said now – I made a commitment, and it is the commitment of the collection in the same terms and in the same volume as in 2015. They are different, from Queixería Entrepinares, Groupe Leite Río, Lactalis, Nestlé, Groupe Danone, Celega, Renny Picot, Groupe Alimentaria Peñasanta, Feiraco, Iparlac, Logistica Alimentaria, Celta Milk, among others. It's about the industries that pick up 90% of our production, especially on an individual level, i.e. livestock. And then there's our role, the role we do with the inspections. And the Rural Council, in collaboration, of course, with other departments of the Union, but also with the Ministry, has a campaign to control the transport of milk and dairy products from other countries, in particular Portugal, with a view to the dairy industries of the community. We're in a single market, we can't ban it in milk, but we have to demand that in the same conditions as we are demanding from our owners. And I have to tell you, Mrs. Peace, that of the inspections carried out, and of the data we have, there comes a lot less milk right now than I was entering the Bipartite era. The aim is to check the traceability of milk that arrives in luxury tank trucks, so that both at the source and in the transport process and at the destination meet all legal requirements, avoiding unacceptable practices. As for this year, in 2016, 95 devices were made, where the most frequent infringements are the lack of livestock collection, the lack of documentation to check the type of transport, or changes in the international charter. In addition, inspections were also carried out in collaboration with the Economic and Industry Council, through the Directorate-General for Trade, for loss of sales. Since the last quarter of 2015, 64 loss-sale inspections have been carried out, 39 of which correspond to the dairy sector. These inspections were carried out in different establishments of distribution chains in the four provinces of Greece. So far, several files have been resolved, others are in progress and are in the process of making claims, with penalties of between 6,000 and 10,000 euros each. Through the Galician Consumer Institute too, and by deceiving the consumer, for untrue information about it, especially as it refers to Galician 100 percent, several files have been opened; today 3 of them are already reality, the others are in progress. And these proposed sanctions, which are also reality, are EUR 10,000 each. This is the work that is being done through the Rural Media Council, the work that pushes, and what I'm sure will continue to push. And we're going to give that first-hand information not only to you, but to the people who are part of the plan for strengthening Greek milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u195	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u196	I'm going to start by clarifying that I didn't talk about agricultural organizations, I talked about trade unions, because within industry and distribution companies there are employees and workers employed from those industries that are also affected by this problem. So I say the unions are missing, I'm not talking about agricultural organizations. Then, as for his intervention, I don't know if I understood correctly, I wasn't here when he was from the Bipartite, but you said -- I understood correctly -- that they were closing 1,700 farms a year. I said, Galicia was like India, all full of cows everywhere, because, my God!, in four years we're talking about the closure of 6,000. There must have been some real cow madness in this country! Then you said that the farms were forced to sell milk at 18 cents, which is a drama. It's not a drama, Counselor, it's a robbery under the administration. It's a crime to pay less than the price of production, and the Administration is backing it up, protecting it all this time. He doesn't stand up because he's never faced with big corporations, he's never confronted with economic power. You're dealing with the gain. Leave us alone. They're maturing. They're still closing up on farms. Well, they keep closing, 'cause of course, here we are in another phase. While elsewhere they grow and open farms, in Galicia they close farms. While in other places they are profitable, Galicia is not profitable. While in other places milk is paid at 30 cents, here are people who pay 18 and it's a drama for you; for you it's a drama! And then the whole thing is to come here saying that most farms close by retirement. Hello! Congratulations, that's it. Is that the solution? Do they sin for retirement and you stay so calm, when we're in an immense rural environment, when there's no alternative for the future in the rural environment? Are you telling me that you're not who, or your advisor, of attracting youth to the rural environment at a time when there's great unemployment in the industry? Why are they closing? Why is there no continuity of exploitation? Are you doing something like that? Is there any plan that we don't know so that these farms don't close by retirement, but they attract young people? The first would be to protect the owners from the abuse of the distribution industry. He didn't say how he was going to protect them, what immediate protection measures. To me, as the matter goes, since I've been in this Parliament, and with the previous agreements and the measures put forward, it seems to me that the Union is like one hair without heads, it goes from side to side to side to see itself distracted, and, in the meantime, it's the very owners and gain those who have to search for life, those who have been mobilising for months, claiming an act by the Union that defends their interests. As for the check that milk in powder is actually devoted to milk in powder, I'd like you to tell me how many inspections have been done and how many penalties have been imposed on the milk in powder check. I also find it quite special that it is said that the Greek farms that there was before were a romantic Galicia and an unsustainable Galicia, which is not profitable that romantic Galicia. For you, the romantic Galicia which is not sustainable are these gainful farms, the proximity trade or the artisanal fishing. That's not sustainable, everything here is great. We want large aquaculture companies, large shopping centers and, of course, large producers. Here everything big is the productive tissue. They don't take into account our own social structure and our social cohesion. He said nothing about the surpluses on the market today being destined for humanitarian aid, a proposal that could go to Europe perfectly. And the reduction in production proposed by Europe, which does not, however, affect the price of intervention. I mean, a policy that benefits only the big industry. So, I think there are more than enough reasons for you to come back but, really, with a real plan, with immediate, concrete, evaluable measures and that they respond to the problems that the Greek dairy sector has today. I was really looking for a phrase from Mrs. García Pacín that I wrote down. Oh, yes, you said that PP is the only solution because opposition gives no idea, no alternative. Mrs. Garcia Pacín, I don't know if it's a problem that I have to go to the otorrin or I don't know what the problem is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u198	...many of the opposition, but they have always been rejected by the People's Party, in their pride that only he has the solution. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez García. For the AGE Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u200	Well, here we are presented as the model of the sum of modernity what is happening in this country. That reminds me when it was the most modern one to go to the big malls, and the rest was late. I don't know if they want to caricaturize our position, but in that case I recommend that they travel to Austria or Switzerland to see if there they support the small, medium and large exploitation or not. I travel a bit and see what's modern and what's not modern. But to me the adjective of what you define as the sum of modernity means a model – both in milk and in other sectors – based on the export of low-value raw materials, without transforming, little job creator and low-value added. That's the model in the Greek milk, and that's the model in the forest sector. And of course, if you sell it as the sum of modernity, the decline of the agricultural population, and you compare it to Catalonia, then I'll tell you that I want the agrarian population in Catalonia, but I also want the population that works in the industrial sector of the transformation of Catalonia's food. Right? And I want the added value of food in Catalonia, and I don't want the added value of food in Galicia. And I want you to have 50% of the state's timber cuts, we also have 50% of the job creation and 50% of the value added, not 13% as we have now. And in the milk the same thing. You, Counselor, are a great void. If you take away what you have of demagogy and what you have of Bipartite, there's nothing left, and what's not left is exactly what a ruler should have is part of a government that has been seven years, which are solutions, concrete solutions. I know you're the daughter of a gangster, you don't repeat it at all. I think it's ridiculous. She doesn't provide any quality as a counselor if you are the daughter of a gangster, Counselor. We know that. We know that. Let the demagogy, tell us what plan you have for the transformation industry. I'm not insulting anyone. I'm telling you that's left, what you have to say here is the concrete measures to help the sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's hard to justify that, after seven years, you have to come here saying that with the Bipartite we were worse. What does that Counselor bring? What brings that, if that was true? I don't think he's bringing anything. And of course, you escape exactly what would be exactible to a ruler, who had come here and said: these are our measures and this is our model. And I keep asking, if you try to justify on one side that there is a crisis, and on the other side that nothing happens because they close exploitations, because some who close are small and others because they retire, then, again reiterate, what is this country going to live from? What's the country's rural life going to be if they keep closing the farms? Because you're talking about retirements, and, of course, yes, I've repeated it many times, at the end of 2013, 4.68 % of landowners are under 40 years old. 4.68% was at the end of 2013. 59% were 60 or more years old. That's the situation in our sector. Maybe this seems like something normal to you and something that might be good for a country. Not to us, not to us. To us who shut down farms, whether small or medium or large, it doesn't seem positive, especially when there are no alternatives, alternatives to which you haven't worked. But you who came here and didn't say were the results of your policies; what were the results of the successive agreements that you sold here as solutions; what was the result and balance of your last September agreement. You haven't come here to explain what industrial policy you have for milk, you haven't come. Don't you know or don't you want to explain yourself? What do you have for this? What are their plans for one of the major problems in this country? And instead of so much demagogy and so much Bipartite, I could also talk about how much resources will increase to make certain the good intentions of increasing the territorial base and improving the management of the territory. Which is what you're going to do specifically to improve in that aspect, which is one aspect that depends only on you. Because you're given a lot of work to lay down your responsibilities for the gain, but I think, while you don't do your homework, you shouldn't put your duty to the sector. When it's said, it's the sector that needs to be more organized. What did you do for the sector to be organized? What did you do for the sector to be organized, rather than boycott when you tried to organize?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u201	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u202	What did you do for a cooperative basic industrial group in this country? What did they do? What did they do? That's what you have to say, and don't put your responsibilities on the livestock, which are the first ones interested in how their farms work. And Galician leadership is demonstrated by the facts, Mrs. Pacín. It's demonstrated by the facts. He went to Europe with proposals, they didn't listen to him and he came back here and he has to sell them as he can. That is Galicia's leadership in the dairy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u203	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I won't waste much time talking about the Bipartite, and not because you think... No, you don't laugh. Not because you think the data from the Bipartite is conversable with yours, absolutely! but because I think it's important to talk about the future. But what I would recommend is that, when they come here, they try not to lie to us with the data, because you talked about 1,700 farms every year during the Bipartite, and that's a lie. The only data I've got now from the IGE is the year 2008. At the beginning of 2008, there were 13,546 farms, and on 1 January 2009 there were 1,359 farms. I think if there's a quantity left of the other one, it's 479 farms, and I don't think it's enough of those 1,700 of what you've been talking about. It is too much, too, indeed too much, the Bipartite has failed to prevent dairy farms in this country unfortunately! Look, speaking of the closure of farms, for me you made a statement in your intervention which is quite worrisome, because you said that what was missing were holdings that were not sustainable, and you talked about farms of 6, 7, 8 cows. I really, out of intellectual curiosity, I'd like to know if you're able to tell me how many of those 527 farms that disappeared during 2015 were those characteristics. I ask you to send us the data of how many were these characteristics, because I have my doubts that in 2015 they still remained in Galicia exploits of those characteristics. The second is that people retire. So, I'd also like you to explain to us what the plans for improvement are, what are the plans for incorporating youth into agrarian activity, unless it's to try to get those exploitations of people who retire, who have all the right in the world, to have continuity. Every time a dairy farm is closed, we all know that it never opens again, whatever the reason it closes, it doesn't matter whether it's by retirement or by any other circumstance. So you come here and say with a calmness that they retired and no one took charge of the exploitation, that you should worry about that tranquility, because your task should be to shut down no more exploitation. Secondly, of course, it's about you sometimes... the numbers each turn them out as you like, but the truth is, if you sold them here to the owners of this country, after you sold them for many years that you had to invest in quota, finally, from the quota disappearance agreement, you sold them that they would be able to produce more. And they actually tried to produce more, but suddenly they found that they didn't sell that extra milk. The truth is Galicia's losing weight. It is losing weight with regard to the state and is losing weight with regard to the other ten European regions which, together with Galicia, constitute the ten European regions with better skills and more competitive to produce milk. But look, you haven't said this about the European Commission's measures, or rather the European Commission's non-measures to deal with the situation in the milk sector, which I would do. What are you going to do about the decision not to change the intervention price? What are you going to do about deciding that each state will regulate on its own? In that context, will you propose to the ministry some kind of plan?' I asked you a very specific question. Here, contrary to what happened on other occasions, when the market was regulated, it is placing the burden of these surpluses solely on a specific portion of holdings. Do you intend to do something to redistribute that burden, not only between the whole farms, but also between the industry, which many of it has benefited from a lot of public money? Have you thought about proposing anything like that? Should production be reduced? Are you going to assume that it is industry, through purchases or prices, that it is the Greek producers who have to reduce production, or are you going to propose some kind of plan so that it doesn't happen? Or even tell the ministry to do your own respect for the European Union? Those are very specific questions that I asked you. And look, speaking of the Bipartite, in 2008, after the prices, for the first time in all history, in Galicia exceeded the state average, the European average...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u206	...and even the prices of France, for the first and only time in history, began to have a crisis which later lasted during 2009, and you know what the bipartisan did? There was a surplus, there was a problem of surplus production of milk, and the Bipartite did something that might seem to some to be going against competition – it might seem a lot of things – that was to intervene in the market. And how did the market intervene, something that's forbidden? By buying milk for humanitarian aid to Haiti and Cuba because there had just been a natural disaster. We have a non-natural disaster in our home, but it's caused by this policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u208	...unclean in the European Union. And you – tell us, Counsellor – will you use public money?, will you promote the state to do it?, will you promote someone to do it or do it yourself?, will you buy milk to get it out of the market and then feed them to the thousands of refugees in the European Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u210	These are very specific questions that you didn't answer. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u212	Thank you, President. The debate on the number of farms in this country is a very old debate; I will not enter the figures. You're not much younger than me, I think, that's where we're going, so let's talk about when we were 60,000. When we were 60,000, they told us that when we were 30,000 we were going to live well. When we were 30,000, Mr. Fraga told us that we had to be 15,000. And today we're 9,000 and we're worse than ever. So the reduction debate is a debate that... actually 60,000 were too many farms for this country, but I think 9,000 are no longer too many farms for this country. But it is a debate in which we are not going to get into figures, but in the viability of these holdings. I think we're already playing a figure where we shouldn't tend to the most reduction. Counsellor, at the bottom of the problem is that you and Mr. Feijóo have all the time in the world, and even all the parliamentarians we're here have all the time in the world, all the time! So, we have time to discuss, to talk, to analyze, to set up meetings, to make plans... the problem is that greedy people don't have that time, and while we talk here and discuss, and you make plans and convene meetings and go to meetings and talk at meetings, day by day, there are greedy people who no longer bear the price of milk. So what I was proposing to you at the end, that strengthening agreement, if there's a strengthening plan, we must start from the situation that we have and decide what we can do. I understand that it was nothing new that was going to happen, but after publicly known what happened yesterday in Brussels, obviously it is the only way that they leave it. I mean, there is nothing we can expect from the Brussels plans. So if we're talking about a strengthening plan, we're going to have to make a strengthening plan for ourselves. And the strengthening plan for ourselves – I come back where I ended – is, if we are a deficit country and we have a market, we have to have our own strategy, and do not expect others who are putting their surpluses on our market to solve and develop our strategy. Especially because it's absurd, Counselor. It's not that it's neither good nor bad, it's absurd, because they're never going to do it. Because part of his livelihood, his benefits, and that they can stand better than we are based on that we don't make that plan. That's the plan. But of what you have enumulated me and of what you have told me I can't guess at all anything if there's something of that plan and how you're going to talk about it. Please, on this last shift, even if it's brief, tell us something. But – I repeat – only that margin remains. Because Europe has already told you – who sends noses! – that producers and industry agree to reduce their production. Well, here in Galicia we won't have to agree because industry is already doing so from the start, it's already reducing us. And we agree with producers and industries, both Spanish and Greek, that we are increasing by 2%, as are the Irish, which is at the rate of 20%. Each one who agrees as he can. Man, Counselor, it's not very reasonable, I say! Maybe we were wrong to apply the system... by the way, you were in favour of removing the quota system? Yes or no? It seems as if I didn't know, that you didn't make the decision. It was a decision made at European level. It was a decision that counted on the expansion of markets that then failed to meet and that then measures were jointed to counter and to protect equally, in a similar way, their production. And those measures were not implemented in the Spanish case, without any doubt. We all remember here that these measures were adopted four years ago, and we were discussing here the decree on which the milk package was developed a few months ago, when the quota system was already missing the following month. It wasn't done in time or done well, so another kind of measure will have to be put in place. Well, the PP lady to the socialist spokesman – who I am – always talks about this about the unions. I don't know, I've always been told about the unions; not without telling me only, because you always have that mania to tell me... I've already told you that I'm delighted with the unions, that I've always manifested myself to the unions and she to the bishops, and that each one is where to be. So, I don't know that... besides, I shouldn't deny trade unions when the president of the government was one of the top trade unionists in this country. It is true that the one who approved the square has dissolved the union. I mean, there's nothing wrong with being unionist, there's no problem! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] He spoke of the territorial base. Counsellor, after seven years, to make a law that was passed a year ago, after Feijóo said in the first investment speech that was the big problem in this country. And for a year now that the law has been passed, what results have that law?, what has been done this year with that law? Absolutely nothing, Counselor. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u214	So, Counsellor, it's all right with the inspections. By the way, much better the distribution than the ones on the border, because the ones on the border, the only thing we're looking at is whether or not the guides are brought; and, well, beyond that they're brought or not. I don't think anyone's bringing milk today in any way without a guide. The problem is in the distribution. Actually, what's going on? You say it yourself, that they have a penalty of 6,000 euros. Do you think on a large surface a penalty of 6,000 euros for the products sold affects you or does it hurt your head for that penalty? No, man, no! That's the problem, Counselor. And that's easier than walking behind trucks. I'm telling you, I've been after a lot of people. It's going to the supermarkets and looking at the prices. And if there's a law that forbids such practices...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u216	...we'll have to exercise them with all contemporaneousness. Counselor, I'm done with what I told you earlier. With the margin that left Europe, which was already the margin that there was, and you wanted to delay – let's say – knowing and being conscious until yesterday. But yesterday you told her that if you have to search for life, because Spain also depends on you. I understand that the Spanish state will defend what Galicia defends. So, you have to look for life, and if you say there's a plan for strengthening the dairy sector, I say that this plan for strengthening will have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u217	Finish. Finish it, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u218	...a strategy of production, marketing and industrialization. Tell us something about that, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u219	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u221	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, it seems well that counseling and the dairy strengthening plan, with all the agents involved, are working and they're producing results, because what the political groups are looking at, because they used demagogy today in all directions. The point is that the one who talks to them can be friends with the bishops and friends of the unions, they're not incompatible both. Nor are intensive production models incompatible with the most modern production models – as Mr. Sánchez says. Because, of course, we have to get out of Galicia to see the virtues of other countries and the production models. But, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember when Mr Sánchez brought this plenary and Parliament initiatives like those – what were they? – motions for a resolution from a debate on the state of autonomy? I got it wrong because I'm very limited too, the underdevelopment -- what was it? -- sustainable, or something like that. I tell them the truth, at first I thought it was a mistake, and I had to go get what underdevelopment meant, because it's a very defensive system, yes, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that system can't be defended at the same time, because I don't think they're very compatible... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Heillo brought it. Sustainable underdevelopment. Otherwise, your lords will look for and see how a definition appears that is what you stood for. And you say that this is not a system compatible with intensive systems, like the pig in Catalonia; and here we also have very vigorous farms of pig cattle or beef cattle. The nationalist lady said there were missing exploits... sorry, it's just to differentiate them, because if we put ourselves in the names, really... [[Protests.]] [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u223	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u224	Since the vocalist is a nationalist, I think it's not an insult, which is a definition. Looks like me. [[Murmurs.]] But she said over a year because nearly 400-500 dairy farms disappeared. I want to give them different references, because either we look at different data or different statistics, because the cattle farms... and they all give milk, the nodrices give milk. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And it was many of the cow farms that disappeared during the bipartite, more than 5,000, Mrs. Paz. Oh, please, no, she's right. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] You said that in 2007 and 2008 there was no crisis in milk thanks to the intervention of nationalism in Galicia. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] Because when the 2009 crisis, which looks where, it turns out that Mr. President Feijóo took possession, it seems to me that it was April 17 and it was already the crisis there. Because we are the culprits that crises occur in the milk markets, but nationalism is the fault that markets for the first time, ladies and gentlemen, have surpassed the price margins in origin with respect to other communities. Mrs. Paz, look at you in 2014 and 2015, which has once exceeded the price margin from Galicia with respect to the rest of Spain's communities. And, ladies and gentlemen, demagoxia is the one that uses the spokeswoman of the Mixed Group, because look at what to jump here and defend the short, proximity marketing circuits, when she's at some of the committees, meetings... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u225	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u226	...from Commission 7th he was able to pretend to go to Portugal to buy the ecological fruit that he couldn't find in Vigo, it's the trick! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, but speaking of milk, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, what really matters is that our producers... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u227	Quiet, please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u228	...are partners in cooperatives, in those 39 that you said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u229	The same respect you ask for your speeches is also convenient... No, shut up, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence and respect for all, especially for those who are in use of the word. For everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't complain about it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All of them, yes, well spoken! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u230	It really doesn't matter, because it doesn't offend who wants but who can. And many of the questions that have been said here are not enough. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Mr. AGE's spokesman stated in his first speeches in this Parliament that none of the members of the People's Party and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party were able to step up an exploitation. And I think the Group of the People's Party, many of them, and even the party itself, we're greedy... yes, we're greedy, bad that they care about you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, really, when you see it very reasonable, Mr. Socialist Voice, Mr. Garcia, I still don't understand whether the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party – whatever you belong – defended the disappearance of quotas or not, because if you defended it, you didn't do anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, do you remember when they published preventive decrees? And you know why they were pre-trial decrees? Because they couldn't apply. They had to be at the expense of European regulations allowing compulsory contracts to be applied.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u232	Then, when actual decrees were made at the state level at the courts of Galicia, of the Community of Galicia, because from Galicia laws were brought to the Congress of Members and spoke in German, and spoke in Greek. Counselor, go on because she's done her homework. And, unfortunately, despite opposition groups, I'm the only alternative to giving solutions to the demands of the yellow thugs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u233	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Close this show. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u234	Mr. President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Not modern, profitable. What was done to reorganize the property? For just 22 million euros to put into effect 137 areas of partial concentration, which, already budgeted for three more years, will assume the end of them and will affect thousands of hectares and also thousands of livestock. [[Murmurs.]] And we're talking about Brussels. In fact, I took a trip to Brussels and there I transferred what the gloves were transferring to me. Because being a daughter-in-law gives you the baggage of being in their midst. Living in a rural village gives you the luggage to be talking to them every day. But it also gives them the impression that we took Parliament for a joke, and that hurts them and hurts them a lot. I wish we had the magic vein so we could solve the drama, which is a drama, that of the gangsters, but it's not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] But, indeed, as Mrs. Pacín said, I have the hand to get you to make the relevant approaches, you get real, that it's not an easy speech, because of that easy speech they're fed up with the gainful and the gainful. And tell him who lives in a village. As far as Brussels is concerned, since I am telling you that the outcome of yesterday's Council of Ministers is not satisfactory, of course I am not satisfied, because Galicia, like other countries, such as France, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Austria, Poland or Hungary, is asking us to increase the intervention price, and that is not the case. I mean, not all goals have been met. But although not all were accomplished, there was indeed a part that moved me from the organizations, which moved me the sector and, in addition, from what was said in the working group of the Milk Strengthening Plan, which was the conjunctural rise of both the volume of milk in powder and butter. And it increases, on the one hand, to 218,000 and on the other, to 100,000 tonnes respectively. Still, there are parts I have to value, plus some of the agreements that have been reached. Among them are the organizations of inter-professional and cooperative producers to establish agreements to regulate the production of liquid milk at a time when there is a strong imbalance between supply and demand. And that's from here where I call unity again, that unity that you're committed to saying that you broke the People's Party, the People's Group, and that it's not understandable, that unity that's the only one that can lead us to strengthen ourselves, in Galicia, and therefore speaking of Galicia is Spain. On the other hand, the agreement reached is to allow Member States to triple aid up to EUR 15,000 per year without distorting competition on the market. To support investments in the agricultural sector through the European Bank and the European Investment Fund, to develop financial instruments aimed at improving the competitiveness of producers and industry, to provide support for the promotion of livestock products and the opening up of markets in third countries, if of course Russia and China as well. To study the granting of credits for the export of milk. These achievements will, of course, help to provide stability to the medium-term sector, although I would insist that the measures taken are insufficient for the present time. With this, from the juntta and within our competences, we will continue to work to provide the sector with transparency and stability. And that's why I'm going from the Ministry's hand, going from agricultural organizations, from producers together, I'm sure we're going to get the dairy sector to be strong in Spain and profitable. For now it is up to us to work on the development of measures and measures adopted yesterday in Brussels, using the policy tools available to us, on the one hand, to carry out the offer and negotiate jointly on behalf of its partner producers all the clauses of contracts and the sale of milk, to ensure production and to plan and adjust to demand, especially with regard to quality and quantity, and to optimize the costs of production and stabilize the prices of that production. And there will be the Galician Union and there will be the Rural Middle Council, defending the interests of producers. In this line, and for next Thursday, the Ministry has just convened the first meeting, at 11 a.m., with Interprofessional, where industry and agricultural organizations are represented, so that, by using Article 222, the formulas of how to articulate the market are enabled. And I want to make here a brief outline also of meat and therefore also of the livestock sector, but elsewhere, and in what has been done, that is, about pork and also about sheep. And on that line is the study of a new system of aid to the private storage of pigmeat and the creation of a European Monitoring Centre for Meat, which will follow up on the beef and pork markets. Ladies and gentlemen, today I have come up with my own request to talk about the Greek dairy sector and its problem, knowing that yesterday in Europe important decisions would be made for it, without knowing the outcome of these decisions, which could indeed have been better, since one of the demands was the increase in the price of production. Both the work done by the Ministry and what we have developed since the Galician Union may not achieve all the expected results. I'm not the one who put flowers on me; others say or are dedicated to saying that everything has an arrangement; if I had an arrangement, I don't understand how we are in this situation, because there were several governments that passed nationally, but also autonomically. And I say this without any noise, because often the sector is used simply for electoral purposes. There's no more to see Mr. Sánchez's recent visit to a Mesia farm, where he asked the captive what his problem was. We know the problem, we have to give you the solution; others come to Galicia and they don't know the problem, but others had to have moved what was the problem. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And another example we had in that theoretical distribution of ministries, where all kinds of ministries were rife here, but agriculture hasn't been asked yet. I hope you're the People's Party to ask for it and therefore work for that sector. The reality, of course, is not simple. But we are concerned, we are concerned about income and we are concerned about agriculture, and we are concerned about the population of rural areas, and we are concerned about the redistribution of farms. And that's where we're working. And we bet on the dairy sector. And he said earlier: of the EUR 1,186 million allocated within the RDP, 500 go entirely to what is the milk field. And milk in Galicia believes it has a future, and it has a future since, in fact, projects were presented for a count of EUR 155 million to invest in Galicia. They also know about the livestock and the livestock, the young people and the girls, and we had to expand until April 2nd the call which was to be directed towards the incorporation of young people in rural areas. We are destined for this year 14 million euros. They also know those gangsters and gangsters who chose to go along the line of the small farms to remodel the same ones. It's 2 million euros this year. And they also know about the farms that opt for modernization. And these holdings for this year will have 20 million euros. That's the line we're working on, that's the line we're going to follow, and I want to thank the people who've been working since day 2 on the plan for strengthening Greek milk and who's doing it with just one anxiety, which is to improve our sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u236	Before moving to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals, communicate – as I spoke to the spokespersons the other day, and in particular today I spoke to the stakeholders – that there is a change in the agenda, which, after discussing the non-legislative proposal that we are going to discuss now, we will discuss two questions that correspond to the Vice-President. Non-legislative proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Ministry of Business and Public Administration in relation to the process of catastral regularization that is developing in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u237	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u238	For the defense of the non-law proposition Mr. García has the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a little problem... It wasn't the other way around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, it wasn't the other way around. He's talking to the spokespersons. It wasn't the other way around. No, no, it wasn't the other way around. No, there are the spokespersons who are there, you can say. It wasn't the other way around. [[Murmurs.]] It's up to you, Mr. Garcia, but if you want to rest for a moment... No, no, it was first the proposition and then the questions. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There's a communication fault there. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Proposal not of law. I already explained what it was. You can start whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u239	I think the vice president was also mistaken. I understand that, but it's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u240	No, no, it wasn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, start whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u241	Well, thank you very much, President. We'll keep talking about the countryside, the children of the cattle and the ones who are not. Next day I'm going to tell the counselor that it's better for the father to come, that he must understand me better. [[Applause]] We are talking about an extremely important problem in these coming months for the whole of rural areas, which affects many municipalities in this country, but mainly in rural areas, and I will focus mainly on that problem, regardless of what affects other aspects, which is the subject of renewal and reformulation and of the catastrophic renewal that is taking place. In order to somehow disable the argumentary of the People's Party, indeed, I say at the outset that the Galician Union has no competence to solve this problem in its own jurisdictions. So I'll give it to you for a discount. But I understand that if it reaches you as well, since it is a problem that many municipalities are suffering and therefore reaches you and that it must articulate dialogue measures and political measures to try to fix it, since it has enormous responsibility for it. This whole problem is mainly due to two decisions. One, which took Mr. Aznar years ago – I think I remember –: that the agricultural facilities, the buildings, which were, even though they were in the rustic soil, until then the rustic soil was taxed; if it had a construction, it had a value; if it had not, it had another value, but it was taxed by parcel – we said – and not by constructions, and therefore they were exempt from paying those taxes and now they have to do it. The truth is that this amnesty that has been sold, which is also an amnesty and does not cease to be an amnesty, the second amnesty of Mr. Montoro – of the first time we have already spoken here many times, which is the one which has been welcomed by high personnel, almost all linked to the People's Party – and this in a way too is an amnesty, since it allows to regulate irregular situations of irregular construction, in exchange for 60 euros. That, of course, costs the same 60 euros to regulate the farm in Chandrexa de Queixa that the chalet in Marbella costs exactly the same, 60 euros to regularize it. And, of course, that's a bit, or we don't agree, and avoid it, it's true, a penalty that could reach up to 6,000 euros. So the review is going on in two fundamental respects. First, to establish that they are going out – let's say – that they bloom all those illegal constructions that there may be in this country. When I talk about this country, this state, that is, it's the state level. But in Galicia we were not exempt, nor can we say we are exempt from this phenomenon. And, on the other hand, the revision of values, which is also being done, from our point of view, in a totally distant form of reality and that part of a fraud of the definition itself, which I think is where we have to start, and that is what we wanted or want to make clear, which is that in the definition of the tax that then applies on this valuation, in the IBI, well, the very definition clearly says that it cannot, in any case, exceed 50% of the market value on the catastrophic value that is applied to it. Which, from my point of view, from our point of view, fails for itself. Because I consider that in many of the constructions of our rural and many villages of this country its market value is absolutely zero, absolutely zero, but rather they are a burden. And, therefore, the very definition for me is a mistake, because – I repeat – if we agree that it cannot exceed the cadastral value of 50% of the market value, I believe that the market value in many areas of our villages is absolutely zero. This is an extraordinary regularization plan which included between 2013 and 2016 and which at the bottom because the Ministry of the Farming intends to do so is that the municipalities can collect more – which by themselves we are not against – and, above all, that after the fall of the construction sector, in fact, the municipal buildings have become tremendously watered down, and as well as the IBI at other times was a tax which was not important to them, because today it supports or, in some ways, is a tax that is most fundamental to the survival of the municipalities. What is done is that Fairy identifies and values those goods that were not regularized or simply did not appear and then it is the municipalities that determine about the tax and the types to be applied. Here we refer to our initiative, although it is not determined in a way, well, because it is true that the councils have determined a holgura, they can establish the type of gravel to apply on the catastral value in agricultural holdings and in rustic soil between 0.3 and 0.9, and they also have other types of mechanisms, such as exemptions, some of them mandatory, up to 90% of the whole quota in singularized areas or with level of infrastructure and equipment below existing in other areas, which I understand that this is where most of the municipalities will go: exemptions to public bodies, large families, which have a system of thermal exploitation, cultural interest, 95% for those immovables who develop economic activities that are of special interest, which I also understand that it will be another of the mechanisms that use these councils, or that use our concepts, so that agricultural holdings and constructions that are so devoted to non-agrarian holdings, well, well, because it is going to be another of the mechanisms that use them, or that they use our concepts, so much a problem of their growth. But I want to put the accent, since we're probably all in this, or I understand that we're all in agreement, I say, and, in any case, if not, the municipalities do have the power to do so and therefore what they have the faculty of the councils, what they would have to do to the board is somehow that the municipalities are sufficiently informed, they have the information and they push these kinds of measures, but if not, they would have to demand them from each municipality, and no one better than each council should know their local reality and therefore act accordingly. But I'm starting from the root that valuations and the process are wrong, so I said before, essentially because the valuations that are made, and starting from that base by Catastro, are totally disproportionate and out of reality, and therefore I think it's where it is and where the problem lies. Because, in fact, by applying bonuses and applying exemptions, we can either fix or we can assure that for the next year that person pays less than IBI, but we will not, however, give him that his catastrophic value, if he does not adjust to his reality or if he is somehow overvalued, that continues to affect him. And we were talking about the commission, for example, for the children of the rural inhabitants who have constructions and are directly influencing them, for example, when asking for scholarships, for other types of taxes, where the catastrophic value will somehow be harming these people in many cases. So the main problem that reaches – I understand – the work of the Galician Union is that this work is being done, I think, in a manner of chapucera, in a hurried manner, since I used that deadline to fulfill those three years to do it. I mean, they were reading this day news that in the province of Coruña they were striking as thirty-five Town Councils, forty Town Councils. Therefore, it is made chapuceraly, fast, through aerial photographs and plans that do not reflect reality. And it's true that it would always be the question of whether the People's Party argument is going around too. So I already put the car before them; that is to say, yes, of course, the stakeholders can claim, of course the stakeholders can travel, of course the stakeholders can prove that all that Catastro says in that first information is not true, and they have the mechanisms to do it. But of course, we're talking about a lot of pensioners, a lot of retirees, a lot of older people who don't have access at all, and they don't even understand very well; a lot of older people think that when they charge them the rate of 60 euros, they're already paying the IBI and they have to forget everything. And so we're talking about these kinds of cases. And that's a lot of the population of this rural country. And so we should have the political initiative and concern so that this didn't happen. And, therefore, if the problem is the deadline for these three years, it's an absurd deadline. We give ourselves more time in such a way that it is done in the best conditions. That perhaps this is absurd from my point of view that Catastro commits, and perhaps the municipalities are those who have to receive help because they have no funds, if they have no funds to do so, but that they do it their own councils, that will always be more suited to reality, better suited to reality, and somehow, better done, and with people on the ground, not from above, where we do not differ if a house is home, if it is a cut, if it is a garage, if it is, in such a way that in the photo itself in many of our villages – and there are the receipts that are coming in, where everything that is caught in the house, well, it comes, in principle, as home. And in fact, I mean again – so that I don't go there – that the person can prove after that it isn't, and he's got the deadlines to do it, but I think that's not the way to fix it. And then we have another of the fundamental problems – and so do I, if you want to. You make me an amendment that is practically my amendment, but you exclude the problem from me and you want to circumscribe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u243	...the solutions I posed in the rustic floor resolution. And no. That is to say, in this country we have a reality, we have a reality of which we are all accomplices, and it is not the livestock, the farmers, those who live in the rural world – I told you the other day in the commission – the big fraudsters. The big urban ballasts aren't there, the big problems of enrichment through urbanism aren't there. Therefore, we mustn't pursue that. And then it's true that in the soils of the rural core today we have a lot of buildings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u245	...agrarians and, therefore, his amendment would not give them shelter. If you want to be in the philosophy of trying to fix...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u246	He's got a shift for the amendments after.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u247	...we could even look at another writing, but for us it was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u249	...all constructions, not just those of the rural core. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u250	Thank you, Mr. García. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. Mr. Garcia, I think you'd really understand me better with the lady's father than with you. Because I think here just exposed a mix, a mix of processes that I think one who talks to them, really, I don't just understand much yet, because we're actually dealing with a very complex topic that in five minutes is hard to explain and expose. But, Mr. García, you say you're going to have to pay for the constructions of the Greek farms by a decision of Mr. Aznar. And then in two laws of the socialist lord, Mr. Zapatero, couldn't modify or correct that serious thing he did? Didn't he have time in eight years? Okay. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then you're talking about Mr. Montoro's second amnesty, because it turns out that Catastro, now, finds out that it legalizes irregular constructions. That's a very good argument. I don't think so, Mr. Garcia, that you're a little wrong. Look, there are two different processes at present. A disaster regularization, which is quite true that reaches the plan this of several annuities, in which you, by the way, ask for a moratorium – point 1 of your initiative and literal point of our copy initiative – because, just as the nationalist spokeswoman in commission called for the paralysis of the process, I think we can claim that all groups are in favour of a catastral regularization in a rational way and that does a lot of failure, because the catastrophe really has a lot of mistakes. But we're talking about something quite different. We're talking about the constructions of the works, of the ships, of the pendants, of all those buildings that affect the activity of a gainful holding, that will begin to quote as rustic, that will add their value to the floor, to the rustic. That's where we have to affect, that's where all the political forces we must, as you well said, although it's not the competence of the Union, if it's a problem for all of us, because in our community there are many small owners and, above all, in rural areas. So that's where we have to aim for it not to impact this regularisation, this recognition of the farms linked to agricultural activities, first, in the activity, in the activity itself, and secondly, in order for it to be done, not as you said, with good and computer systems and using new technologies, but in situ, with companies. Mr. Garcia, look, just as you say you intend, as you said, to legalize irregular constructions, what you don't intend to do is, as you say in your initiative, in point 4 that you don't charge the owners with fines that they are not responsible for, in most cases because of the delays of the previous four exercises. Look, see if I can explain it. The construction changes, or expansion of a house, expansion of a garage or any type of building, like the relevance given to the swimming pools in the media, I understand that these have to be raised if they're not, to revalue the catastrophic value and to pay for the delays of the last four years. But a different case, Mr. Garcia, are the gainful farms and their buildings built up to them and linked to their own activity. Because that's where we'll all try, with the proposals set out in the amendment, which have the slightest impact, the smallest, first, rustic IBI, then using the powers of the municipalities. And you said very well that it should be coordinated and that since Junta it should be urged, especially – and we agreed – in the heart of the Fegamp, so that the councils should have the greatest information and possible repercussions on their budgets. Because, Mr. Garcia, you claim that these measures are exclusive to the collection, to fill the ark. And, as it was said very well in committee, I believe that the funding of the councils – which, by the way, is one of the least problematic entities or public administrations in funding, let's say among all these administrations – the municipalities have other ways, the funding above all other than this one, are not the ones discovered in the pendants, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u252	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u253	What the municipalities have is the competences in order to subsidise. That's why we in our amendment passed or tried to increase the bonuses from 90 to 95, which are also recorded with the smaller types of rustics, which would be 0.3. Mr. Garcia, I think if you claim that the rustic soil that appears as a collection in my proposals, in my points, is the problem, we can also study it and see it. Because what you really need and if you need to help the gainful activity... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u255	...and that this is really a regularization, which is marked by regulations, strict application of regulations, but at no time, as was said in other debates, that it is a choice, a trap and, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u257	...try among them all because as AGE also proposed, next time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u258	One minute, one minute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u259	...the commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u260	Thank you. Just a minute, just like Mr. Garcia. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u261	...to find a consensus and a common position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u262	Finish it, Mrs. García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u263	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u264	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u265	Well, we're going to support this non-law proposal by the Socialist Party, because we understand that we have to put all the necessary means to prevent the abuse of power by the Administration, which endangers the rights of citizenship. Not only does it affect the cadastral issue of agricultural and agricultural holdings but it affects all citizenship, mainly from the rural environment, because it clearly affects the rustic soil. Abuses related to the catastrophe that are taking place throughout our country and the ones I'm going to talk about. To set as an example a paradigmatic case like the case of Sanxenxo, where the president will be in functions, which creates a real problem for the neighbors and neighbors of Sanxenxo. [[Murmurs.]] In mid-2012... – you have explained why now – the Sanxenxo Council calls on the Territorial Power of Catastro in Pontevedra to update the catastral values. In June 2014 it was announced in the provincial newsletter and in a newspaper in Arousa that a review of the catastrophe is being promoted with a new stock report. Citizenship is not reported of the consequences of such a review or its rights. On June 23rd, the approval of the filing of securities and the deadlines for claim and claim is published, but the Council does not inform the citizen either. On June 27th, already out of time to claim nothing, the Town Hall has workers to report citizenship, but it's not until August when neighbours and neighbors start receiving notifications and have no personalized information until October 7th. Everything, of course, is a government achievement to steal without much notice. So it was approved a statement of values that responds to value studies at market prices of the year 2008, just at the top of the real estate bubble. The setting of values, in addition, lacks calculation memory, with which one cannot know whether it is right or wrong. Catastral cartography does not represent the urban reality of the municipality. The setting of values is not accompanied by a socio-economic study that reflects economic capacity, the tax burden on neighbors, the areas where the highest and lowest incomes are concentrated, the situation of infrastructure, services, etc. In addition, Royal Decree 1020/93 is contrary to presenting a market study of a supra-municipal area without having conducted the mandatory prior study of the local market. This led to the fact that in Sanxenxo the rise of prices had been a real scandal, the rise of values. In the 95th year presentation, the soil value was 170.08 square meters and the construction value was 335.36. In the new assessment of the year 2014, the soil value is increased by 470% and the construction value by 193%. So in addition, you apply the highest modules, the third and second highest modules that can be in the state, and no justification for such a calculation is drafted. The presentation of values suffers the highest rise, considers urban plots of plots that are of rustic soil, considers urbanizable plots that have no kind of work done to urbanize them – they have no avenues, they have no water, they have no electricity – i.e. already rustic land use, but it appears as urbanizable ground, and, to top of it, as Sanxenxo is a vip zone, where the president comes in functions, apply to him the highest modules. But unfortunately, even if they have summer vip, Sanxenxo's neighbors and neighbors are not vip, they have my own wages, because they have Greek wages, and therefore it's an indecency that they have to pay for the cottages, make up for their poor income the amount of cottages and second houses that people don't live in Sanxenxo, which doesn't even live in Galicia. So there's a clear violation of the rights of citizenship, an abuse of local government power, and of course a real lack of control over what is the whole question of the catastrophe and the price of the floor in Galicia. So, for example, we see – and I finish already – that in the province of Pontevedra the highest fiscal pressure to suffer Sanxenxo, with 829 euros per inhabitant, 829 euros per average inhabitant, while, for example, Mondariz, who is also of the highest, 562; Pontevedra, 580; O Grove, 544; and Vigo, 535.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u267	Sanxenxo pays more than any other city in Pontevedra. So we understand that the disaster problem goes far beyond the farms, directly affects all people in this country and affects very directly all people who own the rustic floor. We will therefore support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u268	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u269	Well, we are going to support this initiative, and we also see a change of position in the People's Party, which in committee has simply voted that it does not and now it is an amendment; it is a step. They recognize that there is a question that has a rather large impact on rural areas, above all. A lot of things have been explained very well by Chelo Martínez. I mean, by the very nature of tax, it's especially unfair or it doesn't take into account factors such as people's income or a specific valuation of housing or buildings. Not that there is a company that evaluates each of the buildings and the values, but that there is a notification of the municipality and, therefore, within the most expensive areas, there may be housing that does not have that value and that applies to it the value of that area. And, therefore, it's part of a fiscal policy driven by the People's Party, which prioritized to collect certain taxes and not to collect others. He prioritized taxes such as VAT, and VAT as a way to stabilize the city council accounts, and prioritize the property tax as a way of matching the city council accounts seem especially unfair to us, because, as I said, this tax does not take account of people's income. The impact on rural areas is evident, neither can the People's Party deny it; otherwise, it would have been pointless to present an amendment as presented today, very similar to the Socialist Party's proposal, with nuances, but the impact is undeniable. I mean, what we see is that the question is focused on agricultural and livestock holdings, and we don't think that's bad, but we've already explained in the committee the case of people living in houses, housing that were farmed or farmed that have the buildings that were left when there was activity in the house, that they earn a pension, and that they have to pay for these facilities some amounts that are very important in percentage terms. I've explained: to some buildings with valuations of about 50,000 euros, nothing more, you apply a coefficient, the minimum, 0.3, because it's going to be 150 euros a year. Well, apply it to a minimum pension for a pensioner who had paid in the farm and see what the percentage is. So of course it has a lot of impact. I'm putting on a case not the most serious. So we agree that it is necessary to ask for the momentary paralysis of the process, to study the mechanisms that adapt to the peculiarities of the country, which reduce the impact, and above all that reduce injustice in its application, which is an application, by the characteristic of the tax, very linear and which does not take into account the characteristics of each contributor. And we believe – we do not know the decision of the Socialist Party – that there could be room for an agreement, if there is any will, as it seems there will be, and it would also be desirable for the immediate agreement and measures; we may have better or worse measures, but in this case we need to act now, because if we do not, we can be late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u270	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen. We must also point out that we too have to be glad that the People's Party has evolved so much in its position on this matter for a few more than a week since just over a week ago in this matter, because at the last session of the Commission 7th that took place in this Parliament the initiatives of the Socialist Group and of the Group of the Nationalist Nationalist Block Galego were not only voted against by the Group of the People's Group for a few more than a week ago, but that even Mrs García did so much in his position on this matter, because at the last session of the Commission 7th that took place in this Parliament, the initiatives of the Socialist Group and the Group of the Nationalist Nationalist Group of the Galego were not only voted against the Popular Group of Nationalist Nationalist Group for just a few weeks ago, but that even in the People's Group of the People's Group of the People's Group of the People's Group for a few more than just a week ago now more than just a week ago, because we must also have had a good sense that we too much to be glad that we too much to be glad if we have been able to be glad to be glad that for the fact that for a week, because we have been able to be glad to see that for a week now, because the fact that for just been able to see that for just a week now, because for just a few more than just a week, because, because, because, because, because, because, because, because in that for just over a few more than just over a few more than just over a week, because in the People People People People People People People People People Party Party has evolved so for just over a few more and for just a week the People Party has evolved so for just been evolved so long ago, because, because, because, because, because, because at this has evolved so for just over a week, because in their position in their position in this has evolved so for just over a few years ago, because at this very long ago, because, because, because, because at this has evolved so for just over a week, because, because at all of a week, because at all of a week, because, because, because, because in its position in its position in this year ago has evolved and for just over a week, because at the last week, because at the last year, because at the last year We also believe that it is a step forward in the event that some sort of agreement can be reached today in connection with the Socialist Group's initiative and with the amendment tabled by the People's Group, but I would like to insist on a question which Mr García has already spoken about, which has to do with the valuation of immovable property in rural areas, both urban and rustic. Unfortunately, the lack of economic dynamism, the lack of social dynamism, the lack of demographic dynamism causes on many occasions the real market value of an immovable in the rural environment to be zero, and we set an example in Commission 7a – we could put anyone else – but possibly an old farm of cows or pigs or any kind of installation in a village in the municipality of the Foundry or of Chandrexa de Queixa, although it has 200 square meters, it has round access, etc., that are circumstances that take into account when establishing the catastrophic value of a real estate, it is likely that the market value of that facility is zero or a little more than zero, because there is no one who is going to buy a farm today to put an exploitation of what is neither in the Chandrexa de Queix or in that village of the Fondgrada to which I refer. And, therefore, we continue to insist that, indeed, we must paralyze this process in Galicia to suit – you, Mr. García, put it here – the peculiarities and the idiosyncrasy, but we could also translate this by adapting it to the real situation of the real estate market, both urban and rustic, in our country, mainly in the rural environment. And we also say that, of course, except in the case of irregularities – that there are also and that we do not enter it – in the case that the situation is not motivated because people have committed some kind of irregularity, that they are not subject to regularization rates, which are 50 or 60 euros, nor are they covered retroactively by the last four previous exercises, because, indeed, it is not the result of their actions and therefore is not their responsibility. On the other hand, to us, well, even if we do not end up crumbling into a concrete agreement today, it certainly seems to us that the People's Party is moving, moving forward and ridiculing the initiative a few days ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u273	...and today they are approaching positions with opposition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Author group – from the stage, please, from the stage – of the non-law proposal. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u275	Thank you, President. Mrs. Peace, don't trust yourself, they both tell each other one thing. Let's see, to start with, I understand that the drafting of the amendment of the People's Party is what you're saying is that you agree with our drafting, because it's practically similar, except for two aspects that are decisive for us. This is the case with the theme of the rustic soil, so I excluded those that are in rural soil and we would leave half the country. So, if that's the point, just doing those measures in rustic soil doesn't make sense. And then he talks and he inocides, it's true that he adds 95% as a measure of power, but the powers are from the municipalities, it would have to be mandatory. But, well, I mean, if philosophy is to reach an agreement, there's no problem. If we agree in philosophy, there's no problem with writing. If we don't agree in philosophy, logically we won't make a deal. Mrs. Pacín, look, I didn't intend in five minutes to explain the catastral subject, nor did I see it; besides, I was already almost out and how it caught me off guard. I understand you have to come here with the subject read. You read this at home, if you like, and then come here; I won't explain to you what the catastrophic regularization is going on. It's an objective fact that it was Mr. Aznar who said he changed the model, that I didn't even say it was right or wrong. Previously, farms that were in rustic soil, and that were dedicated to agricultural holdings, it did not tax exploitation, it taxed the soil; and that soil had a higher value if it had construction or not, but it did not pay for the construction itself, and so it was. Legalize constructions. With the non-legalized catastrophe, Mrs. Pacín, but that's what you should have already read. It regulates the situation with the catastrophe, and therefore avoids... I talked about regularization, that there could be a fine of up to 6,000 euros if someone does not communicate to the catastrophe those constructions; it may have up to a penalty of 6,000 euros. So avoid both a Marbella cottage, as well as the cheese house of Chandrexa. By paying the 60 euros he regulates his situation with the catastrophe; I'm not talking about legalization or anything else, which is another area. The problem lies in that this country – and here it has become manifest – is quite different, therefore, to make the catastrophe in Galicia, with our rural, with the constructions we have in our rural, with the agricultural constructions we have in our rural, it's quite different from Albacete, where the houses are on one side, all are houses, and on the other side are the sheds and there are the farms and so on. It's quite different here, so doing it with the same model here causes a lot of more disappointments to reality, and I think in that we all agree: you match, you match mostly your mayors and you all agree. So, what we're talking about, beyond the vision that everyone has, is, let's stop, if the problem of accumulation is over time, let's rethink, which can be done better. Because it's obvious that there are imbalances; it's obvious that early communications come wrong; it's obvious that it's catalogued as a lot of housing that's not inhabited, and it's obvious that agricultural farms... but what I wanted, or what I tried, focusing on my ten minutes, is that the problem is not in the bonuses that are established, that they are empowering – if they don't have to be mandatory – therefore, the powers of each municipality already in each municipality our conchlers, if the mayor is of the People's Party, they will ask them, and vice versa, as my neighbor says. But the root problem is part of that cadastral evaluation, which is being done wrong and which is being made out of all reality. That is a disaster problem, and that is where I think the role of this Parliament must be essentially, to urge the Union to play that role. The role of the municipalities will be done in each municipality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u276	Thank you, Mr. García. If they come to an agreement, he'll bring it to us. As we mentioned earlier, we now raise two questions to the Government. Question by Mr Miguel Ángeldo Figueira and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people on the evaluation of the merger process initiated by the municipalities of Cotobade and Sardinian
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u277	Whenever you like, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u278	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. In this House we hear every day the opposition to the evil that justice works in our country. Today it was one of the arguments put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. That is why I would like to begin, Mr. Vice-President, by congratulating or blessing your department, the Presidency and Public Administrations and Justice Council, for this award granted by the General Council of the Judiciary, with the award "Quality of Justice 2015", in the most accessible form of Justice. [[Murmurs.]] So bad you shouldn't be doing your department when the General Council of the Judiciary gives this recognition, which seems to bother the opposition groups. In any case, going to the question, and after having blessed the Greek Government, I wanted to refer to the news that we all met on February 23rd, when the mayors of Sardinia and Cotobade announced their decision to initiate proceedings for the merger of both municipalities. This is about the second merger of municipalities that will develop in Galicia in the last forty years, after the merger of the corrupt municipalities of Oza and Cesuras. For this group, the merger of municipalities constitutes a clear bet, a determined bet, by municipal collaboration and by administrative simplification, which makes clear, without any doubt, the political courage of the mayors – in this case the mayor of Cotobade and the mayor of Cerdedo. A merger that will allow them to become a municipal reality of the largest entity, a municipal reality that will have more population, more budget, that will be able to access more subsidies and that will be able to access more support from public administrations. Given the importance that we have given from the Popular Parliamentary Group to the merger of the Town Councils, we want to request from the Greek Government its assessment of the beginning of this merger process of the Town Councils of Sardinia and Cotobade. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. Response by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u280	Thank you, President. I would like to thank Mr. Tellado for his congratulations on the prize that will be awarded to the Council of Galicia tomorrow, and I understand that for all the functioning of the Administration of Justice in Galicia, that prize of the quality of the Judiciary Power Council for a pioneering project of purge. In fact, it's already the second time in three years that the Judiciary Council awards a prize for the quality of justice to justice in Galicia. With regard to the question you ask me, the Galician Union has never hidden that it favors, promotes and is in favour of mergers, the proof is that it is the second that it has been produced in just four years, and we are sure that, as these merged councils are moving forward and as others are doing so are now talking about the possibility – even in the province of Lugo they were talking about studying the possible merger of municipalities – Iranians seeing the obvious benefits that, on the other hand, in other countries have agreed from day to day, without consulting and without counting the volunteerity of the municipalities in any case. We don't want to do this here, at least we don't want to do it in Galicia. So we want the municipalities to take advantage of the obvious advantages from all points and sight, the first economical, that's what you're going to notice most, and what you're now claiming most from the municipalities, more money to be able to continue serving. We think it's the immediate effect. By the way, the ruling of the Constitutional Court which was known last week all that related to the promotion of mergers leaves it so that they have no problem of legality, but quite the opposite. In welcoming that, it must be said that in the fusion of Sardinian and Cotobade, two municipalities that have been losing population in the last thirty years – just like many municipalities in rural Galicia – at a much higher speed than desirable – in Sardinian almost 50% of the population, and in Cotobade not so close to an urban nucleus like Pontevedra, but it was sprinkling 30% – the mayors agreed to start this fusion process. By giving them data in this first rapid intervention, it must be said that in very little time, in the participation of state income, immediately after being merged, they become 17% more participation, and that coupled with 10% bonus provided for by the Law of Local Regime Bases, which – I insist – was not affected by the Constitutional Court judgment, means that in the first five years of existence this new municipality, Cerdedo-Cotobade, will have nearly 2 million euros plus 1,765,000 euros, which is 350,000 euros a year. From these 2 million euros, they will have between 200,000 and 250,000 euros more than they would have had if they were separated, apart from what they perceive from the Merger Fund that was created according to the Fegamp this year, which is 2 million, and that a very important part will logically touch on the mergers that are agreed upon, and now even the fusion we know this year, apart from what has already taken place, is that of Cerdedo-Cotobade. Therefore, major economic growth, apart from other advantages that I will detail to you in the second part of the intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u281	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u282	Thank you, President. Thank you, Vice President. From the People's Group, the truth is that we agree with this positive vision of this fusion process initiated between the counties of Sardinia and Cotobade. [[Murmurs.]] That's right, what bothers us is the cynicism they expressed right now from the Alternative Left Gaga. In fact, it's a cynicism that proves because, of course, if you fill your mouth with municipalism, talking about collaboration between municipalities and even talking about mergers, but at the time of truth, when it comes to talking about a particular case, what they do is they use all the mechanisms to put the poles on the wheels to stop all the processes. They always made it possible for the parties on the left, and the most radical left, in the case of Oza-Cesuras, and we, unfortunately, are sure that, if they can do it now, they will too. In any case, the Greeks will be able to value and recognize the efforts of the brave mayors who bet on the collaboration, and the efforts and support of the Galician Union, who works hand in hand with all the municipalities. I hope that the Socialist Party will also encourage the Socialist mayors to move forward in this line. I'm sure they will. We, in this round of questions, want to know the opinion of the vice president on the positive effects that fusion will have on the neighbours and neighbours of that new council resulting from the merger. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u283	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. Tellado. For not only do you coincide in that positive assessment, does the Socialist Party – yes, at the state level – coincide in the pact signed with Citizens and that presented the investment session. He said exactly: promoting voluntary merger of municipalities, which should be supported by autonomous administrations, exactly what the Galician Union is doing. This is what the Socialist Party in Madrid and what they say here is a patochada. Exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] That's the coherence of the Socialist Party. They don't know what they're signing in Madrid, or they don't give him any importance. Or here it goes for free everyone, who better seems to me that it is what happens to the Socialist Party. I'd rather think that's what's going on. Not to mention the BNG position, which is radically opposed to fusion, of course, without wanting to listen to anything. I don't want to do it either, the President of the Parliament, who will receive these mayors when he touches, because this matter is neither important nor why he should listen to it. BNG, saying that it's completely opposed to fusion, doesn't want to listen to any of the advantages of fusion. Yes, neither did he explain nor did he come to the Galician Council Administration any of the advantages that these municipalities still remain unmerged, either from the economic point of view or from the point of view of service delivery. Of course, I understand that it has to be that it is much easier to keep all public services running separately, that by gathering together and having 2 million euros more in 5 years and 250,000 euros from the fifth year onwards, plus all the merger incentives from the Galician Union. So these are the postures. The Council of Galicia will continue, without any doubt, promoting the mergers, supporting – as you have said – the brave mayors, with a large majority sufficient not to take – if they were not thinking about their towns and the future of their municipalities – these kinds of decisions, but they have taken them with all the consequences, and we are sure that the advantages – as you said in the first intervention – are iran seeing, as the process progresses, and as the years progresses, in these merged councils, both in Oza-Cesuras, which, by the way, has already had the ratification of the merged council neighbours – which I believe is the best survey that can be done – in the municipal elections, increasing the support, and I am sure that in Sardinia-Cotobade and others can be seen. Apart from economic incentives, provision of services, support from administrations, promotion and advantages in accessing grants, maintenance of centres that would be very difficult to keep open if they didn't have the population increase and the money needed to do so. In short, obvious advantages that the Socialist Party supports in Madrid in a pact with Citizens and that the Socialist Party here does not qualify but rather beats, failing to respect many neighbours of Sardinia and Cotobade, missing the mayors and missing them from the vast majority of people, who think that this is the way, as much as you are struggling to put poles on the wheels, as Miguel Tellado said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u285	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Jointly, on the delay in the adoption of an action protocol against labour harassment in the Italian Autonomic Administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u286	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. On 3 June 2014, Commission 1st, institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs of the Galician Parliament, unanimously approved the call for the Galician Council to promote, develop and approve, with the collaboration of representatives of the public workers of the Galician administration, a protocol for action against labour harassment in the Italian Autonomic Administration. In question by this honourable Member at Commission 1st on 5 November 2014, the Director-General for Evaluation and Administrative Reform informed that the draft was already delivered to the trade unions, and that they had until 10 of that same month to carry out the approaches to the text they considered appropriate, indicating that the text was likely to be approved before the end of 2014. At the end of 2015, and before the delay in the adoption of that Protocol, on 30 November 2015, a non-legislative proposal was introduced, which was discussed in the Commission 1st again, in which the Committee of Galicia was urged to carry out the appropriate procedures to speed up the adoption of the protocol of action against labour harassment in the Italian Autonomic Administration, which, in any event, should not be further beyond the end of this session except for justified reasons, which should be communicated to this Parliament. Despite the favourable position in the debate of all the members of the parliamentary groups, the vote was rejected by the votes against the People's Party, and later it was explained that this vote was a mistake, which I am very surprised at. And so we arrived today, Mr. Rueda, twenty-one months later, the protocol has not yet been approved. For all this, I would like to ask you this question: What explanations does the Galician Council offer to this Parliament for the delay in complying with the Commission's agreement of 3 June 2014, which urged the Union to adopt the action protocol against labour harassment in the Italian Autonomic Administration? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u287	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Responds to the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I'm telling you is that you're right, I admit that the protocol had to be approved, is that you're late for your approval. Indeed, it was agreed in this House that the Galician Council had drawn up this protocol, but it is logical that labour harassment is now in the criminal code, in the Public Employee Act, and also in the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of Galician Union. Precisely the intention was –it was also on that initiative that was approved – to draw it up with as much consensus as possible. There were three deadlines for allegations which were opened, at the initiative of the Galician Council and at the initiative of the unions, during these twenty-one months. There were ten meetings to draw up or attempt to reach consensus agreement on proposals presented by the unions. I tell you, slowness in this approval, it is true, but to try to reach that consensus. What I can tell you is that I wait until... there's only one point... I suppose you'll also be informed of the last discrepancy there is at the last point to wake up between the Galician Council and the trade unions. And what I hope is that – I'm telling you, recognizing the delay in approval – once you are alone or reached an agreement on this point, you can adopt by consensus, because I believe that we are all interested in a protocol with this transcendence that has the approval of the union representatives and of the Galician Union. It will therefore be the best guarantee for its proper application once it is approved. I hope that, after this last point, in very little time – and when I talk to you about very little time I think that around the end of this month – that protocol may be approved and put into effect. And I insist, recognizing it – because it would be absurd to deny it – that the process of the desirable has been delayed longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u289	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u290	Thank you, President. I am grateful for Mr Rueda's reply and hope that this time if you are satisfied with what you announce, that the protocol is approved by the end of this month, because if we are not showing from this Parliament what many people keep – that I do not share – that this is a theatre and that it is not worth anything, and that what is approved here is wet paper. Then – I repeat – I thank you for your answer. I'm glad you've received it with your reply. And I hope and hope that before the end of the month this protocol will be adopted in the DOG. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u291	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u292	I insist that a point is missing, and precisely what it is about reaching consensus, because if it was not very easy to approve it without the consent of the union representatives. Let's see if we can get this last point to be approved as well, just as we've been able to consensualize such important things. I take the occasion very briefly, this protocol will serve, firstly, so that each unit of staff in each council can perform a homogeneous treatment when dealing with or reacting to situations of harassment at work. It is necessary to define – and this protocol will define – the situations that should be considered as labour harassment, to know exactly when we are facing a case of labour harassment and act homogenously. The procedure to follow before a complaint. Try to resolve situations of discrimination on other grounds, not just on labour grounds. Unfortunately you can give other situations of discrimination, so it's a good opportunity to take advantage of this protocol too to react to them. Working on prevention and awareness, which I think will be the best tool for not having to react later to situations of harassment. And to determine the actions and responsibilities of public servants when reacting to situations of harassment at work: to say that organs must intervene, which are the actions, which is ultimately the whole procedure to try not to give yourself situations of harassment at work and, if they give themselves, to react properly, effectively and, above all, homogenous and fast. I have already told you that all of this, of course, takes a long time to reach consensus, but I think we are at the end of the procedure. I can tell you that, by solving this last matter, this month would have to close with the final agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-15-DSPG144.u293	Thank you, Vice President. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
