ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. César Manuel Fernández Gil, donna Elena Cruz González Sánchez and don Juan Carlos González Santín. We therefore enter the agenda with the first point. Discussion of the motions for resolutions made to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u2	The following motions for resolutions were tabled: by the Joint Parliamentary Group, 35 motions for resolutions; Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left, 23; Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 17; Socialist Parliamentary Group, 29, and People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 4. It therefore corresponds, firstly, to the intervention of the Galician board through the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, I come in full today to present the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, a key document to design Galicia for the future and which was developed in the greatest process of participation in the history of autonomy. From the very first moment, we are moving this consensus with civil society to deliver to the House a strategic plan that was not exclusively for the Government, but for the Greeks and the Greeks, a consensus that we wish to extend with the greatest predisposition to the various parliamentary groups. Every complex organization – and the autonomous administration is – must have a strategic plan. But the importance of this strategic plan is greater, it fits, for the moment that it should be executed. In order to consolidate economic recovery and the creation of stable employment, it is essential that Galicia be able to continue to generate confidence and listen to citizenship to provide solutions to its problems. And this will be easier if we have a stable and consistent tool, in line with the demands of society, which deepens into a more solid model of growth that contributes to ensuring the future of the Greeks and the Greeks. With this strategic plan, the Government of Greece is not only thinking of acting day by day – that too – but also of moving forward and leading a future project to successfully meet the new challenges of Galicia of the year 2020. All House groups have different criteria – it is logical, and even healthy – but we must also make it clear that country goals are common. And right now we have a goal above all, the consolidation of Galicia's economic recovery, after it has suffered the greatest recession in its history. We have to return to the citizens all the effort they made during the crisis and work around to get the most disadvantaged, the ones who suffered the most, to be the ones who have the greatest opportunity. That's why I'm sure the challenges we make in the Strategic Plan are consistent with what society as a whole demands, because only by improving employment conditions, only by improving competitiveness and only by improving the model of growth will we be able to encourage the creation of more and more jobs, to ensure the financing and continuous improvement of public services and to shield our state of well-being. And in that we are working to achieve solid and sustained growth, to work to get more and more jobs and of greater quality, to work to achieve an increasingly competitive and internationalized society, to work to strengthen the well-being of our childhood and our older ones, and to work to fight against inequality and to promote equal opportunities. In this, most importantly, we would have to be able to reach an agreement; then, legitimately, each parliamentary group can think of various tools to try to reach these common challenges. Ladies and gentlemen, society is claiming more than ever agreements and consensus, let us hear from the Greek Parliament the demands of citizenship. The Administration, still without magic recipes, plays an essential role in Galicia's social and economic development. We need to use the resources we have at every moment efficiently and efficiently. In the last seven years, and now, fortunately, with a little more margin to apply measures of an expansive nature to expenditure. And that efficiency and efficiency can be more easily achieved if we have clear priorities and planning to carry them out. In short, this is what we have designed and what we intend to do with the strategic plan we have brought to this Parliament. With the approval of this House of the Strategic Plan Galicia will have the roadmap so that it can consolidate a sustained economic growth during the second half of the decade with annual GDP gains above or around 2.5%; increase by more than 100,000 jobs by 2020 to reduce the unemployment rate by around 10%; and also to improve the citizen employment rate by between 20 and 64 years at ten points to 70%, and in particular to continue to bring the female rate closer to male. Thirdly, doubling R & D expenditure and raising it to 1.7 % of GDP – i.e. triple its budget weight – and increasing the export level of our productive sectors to 40% of GDP. Fourthly, further lowering the dropout rate will be in another 3.5 points to 13.5%. Fifthly, it reaches 47% of the Greeks aged between 30 and 34 years of age who have higher education. Sixthly, reducing the population's risk or poverty, or social exclusion, by about 100,000 people. Seventh, lower greenhouse gas emissions by 35% relative to the 2005 level. Eighth place, increase the use of renewable energy to 30% of final consumption and increase energy efficiency by 20% over the 2005 level. Nineteenth place, to implement an integral package of measures for the demographic revitalization of Galicia, to progressively bring us closer to the average of 1.59 children or daughters per woman she currently has in the European Union. And, tenthly, to converge into eight points with the European Union in GDP per capita and to reach up to 88%, in addition to moving forward five points with regard to the Spanish average to 92.7%. In addition to contributing to these ten major challenges, the Galician Strategic Plan will strengthen the growth and employment of the autonomous community over the next five years. In this way, the adoption of this strategy will allow two additional points to be added to the growth of the Greek GDP by 2020 and to reduce a further point on the initial rate of unemployment, to place it – as I said earlier – around 10%. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for this strategy to succeed, it will be essential to add efforts between the public and private sectors, in order to act together as actors in Galicia's development. We have to turn the new challenges into new opportunities, because Galicia of the future has to be a more inclusive Galicia and with more opportunities, with more and better quality employment, with more productivity, with more territorial and social cohesion and with strengthened well-being based on priorities. The momentum of economic growth, starting from a model based on innovation and human capital, to achieve a modern, socially and territorially cohesioned Galicia, which allows continued job creation, increasing productivity and income of the Galicians and the Greeks, collaborating on the path of demographic revitalization, one of the main problems Galicia has as a country. In order to achieve this, we have designed four transversal goals that cover all the axes of action: collaboration to try to change the current demographic dynamics, territorial cohesion and the establishment of population in rural areas, the promotion of entrepreneurship and internationalization in all fields and the drive of the culture of innovation. In addition, in the Strategic Plan we integrate the horizontal principles of governance, promoting equality of men and women and non-discrimination, as well as sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this sustained growth we must base ourselves on a number of principles that for this Government are irrevocable: firstly, the blockage of social spending, reinforcing investment in education and health; we have done so in the worst moments and we also do so when the economy begins to improve. Without tax revenue, we have just approved the biggest tax reduction in the history of autonomy: 98.5% of the Greek taxpayers are already paying less IRPF, 99% of the Welsh people are no longer paying for succession taxes and grants, and we have a zero tax strategy in rural areas to encourage rural rehabilitation. The beginning of a path of also reducing the indebtedness of the Autonomous Community, which is very necessary and which we can do because we were responsible in the time of economic crisis. And the maintenance of community solvency and the sustainability of public spending. Ladies and gentlemen, after the entry into this House of the document we had the opportunity to present the Strategic Plan in Brussels to the European Commission, which appreciated that Galicia shares the basic lines of the European Union for the next few years and that it was one of the first communities to have a strategy document by 2020. Now we've reached the final stage for the adoption of the Strategic Plan in the Greek Parliament, which means that from now on you will have the support of the House. From here on, the Strategic Plan will continue to be a dynamic document, adaptable to the new needs and opportunities that are presented each year and will be shaped into the different budget laws of each exercise. In a context as competitive as the current one, all administrations and different private sectors need a stable framework that allows them to formulate realistic and lasting expectations in which their projects can be realized. The autonomous administration, of course, wants to contribute and play a role in this stability framework. And I emphasize this because any planning has to be materialized to be able to achieve its goals, but the effects of the Strategic Plan can be altered or affected by the circumstances in which it takes practice. So we have to come up with certainty and run away from improvisation, that's what citizenship demands. Fortunately, Galicia enjoys a comparative advantage, which is institutional stability, a stability that we consider to be good for Galicia and for citizenship, because it allows us to exercise fully our self-government and maintain intact our financial autonomy; that is, we own our future and nobody makes decisions for us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I reiterate that it would be very positive for us to shield this stability with the greatest possible consensus. If we have strategy, we don't improvise; if we have strategy, we'll set realistic targets; if we have strategy, we'll reliably measure the results we achieve; and if we have strategy, we'll design at every moment the policies that best suit the Greeks and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, we attach ourselves to the Government for the purpose of bringing together the present and future of Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u4	Thank you very much, Counselor. The role of the parliamentary groups in the defence of the motions for resolutions tabled and, if so, to stand with regard to the Government's intervention. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Counselor, the speech was fine. Actually, it has nothing to do with the reality of the plan, but it was fine. We've just sold ourselves a non-existent plan, but it's the plan that we'd all want and that won't be possible, because, for example, you're talking about how this plan is trying to improve the conditions of employment. You're lying! All the resolutions that talked about making conditions for improving the quality of employment were rejected, for improving Greek wages. Even those directed to real equality between men and women in the world of work were rejected. So it's the first lie of this plan. You also talk about what we have to listen to the demands of citizenship. I think it's okay, start listening, it's necessary; you've been hearing nothing for the last four years, it's time for you to start listening to citizenship. And so, I think it's a matter of starting a new plan, because, in addition, a plan 2016-2015-2020 – which appears in mid-2016 – it would also be good to ask it again. You also spoke about another objective: lowering CO2 emissions, but you reject all the amendments that are going to boost public public transport and, in particular, the proximity train. And we're not talking about demography anymore, because to demography to really kick it back and get it back in our country -- and population fixation -- we need stable and quality jobs to start with, and policies that solve the rural world. We therefore reiterate what we said in the presentation of the plan: it is a strategic plan for the next four years – which, in the end, are not so many – and which should, in our understanding, have greater social participation and greater progress in this Parliament, and much more when we are just a few months away from a change of government. That's why we keep our Amendment No 1, which calls for a new plan to reach the broadest possible social consensus. So, for example, health care, we're called attention that the plan doesn't say anything about health. It does not analyse the serious consequences of austere policies. And now the minister in office, Mr. Margallo, tells us that you four peoples have passed by with austerity. And those four people who passed by had a very direct and very serious impact on people's health, on the cuts in health, which, as we have already spoken in the previous plenary, is in the trials, and has led to death. So I think there would be a lot more to say in health. But we must also point out that only three resolutions of the opposition were accepted and none of them were accepted to increase the provision of health care personnel or a real bet on primary care; and let's not say already for mental health, where they accept a transaction or propose a transaction to AGE to develop a new mental health strategy, but at the same time refuse to convene an opposition with clinical psychology squares or increase the staff of mental health services. Just as they refused to increase what Amendment 24, Resolution 24 of the Joint Group: including a human resources management plan in health, social services and education capable of responding to the needs of the population. So if we deny it in a four-year plan, which is not for this year -- that is, what we're denying is that in four years we're going to put health care, education and social services at the level they were in 2009. You refuse this. As for R+D+i, in the Regional Innovation Index, Galicia occupies an innovative position moderated after Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, Moldova or Poland. In these years there has been a higher fall in R & D spending than in GDP, and the weight of Galician R & D personnel over the state is 4.7, and it continues to fall to 4.5 in the case of researchers and researchers. In Galicia, total R & D personnel represent 0.93% of the population employed, compared to the average of the state, 1.2, and the average of the state is no longer comparable to the European average. Only 1.8 % of the German companies, including large companies, belong to the high and medium-tech sectors and only 6.8% of the employees. And yet all the resolutions claiming a plan for stabilisation of the research career in Galicia have been rejected. He therefore contradicts his speech with the resolutions accepted. They also do not accept the resolutions submitted. You refer to all of the programs, aids and plans that there are vigils, but they really don't solve the problems; we continue to attend family evictions. In Vigo we have three families who were camped in the Town Hall who have no solution for their housing, and you don't accept the resolutions saying there's already a lot of plans. Well, maybe we had to get rid of all the plans and have a single plan to guarantee a home for all people. And it has also been rejected, as it does not, the resolution of the Joint Group that called for basic services to be guaranteed, in addition to housing, such as energy, drinking water or sanitation; something that in the first world cannot be denied to anyone. We also maintain resolutions 18 and 21, which seek to guarantee free access to textbooks in all compulsory education and the sufficient provision of support teachers and psychology staff to meet children with special needs; a deficiency we have repeatedly denounced in this Parliament, but which is rejected again. Therefore, children with special needs are still helpless by this government, having to turn to their parents, when they can, paying for private attention. We also maintain resolution 19 to promote the use of Greek as a language of communication between the student and the teacher and, within the administration itself, with citizens and citizens. She's been refused, too. One of the resolutions rejected was, in this edition, also to edit scientific books, scientific works. You refuse to give him that value. They say people know Greek, but they don't talk about it; therefore, it's a matter of prestige. The one who is obliged to give that prestige to the language is the Greek Government, and the Greek Government refuses to give glory to our language again and again. So we really look dramatic and a real policy of destroying our language. As far as employment is concerned, you continue to refuse amendments that spoke of support for self-employed people so that they can survive the first year of life, which is more or less what new businesses last in our country; support them for at least three years until their business is consolidated; intercede also or work to increase the average gross annual wage; talk with employers and trade unions to achieve real wage equality between men and women and increase the occupancy rate in both genres, as well as to start creating or betting on full-time indefinite work, and end that total and absolute abuse of part-time employment, of contracts for days and hours, which, to begin with the administration itself, is the first precautor of the country. The administration is the one who makes the country's most precarious contracts: day contracts, shiftover hours, weekly breaks, Mondays to Fridays not to pay Saturdays and Sundays... that's what the Administration does. So you can't come here and sell us that you're working for the quality of employment when the Administration is the first to encourage precarious employment. Just as the Joint Group's resolution that called for the withdrawal of that resolution by the People's Party had been rejected, saying that young people should be encouraged to take up work abroad when it was disguised as if it were training. What the government is really doing is throwing balloons out and asking young people to emigrate, in a country that needs young people, in an aging country, in a country that needs, of course, to improve their demographics. And as for the territory, as we said before, the cohesion of the territory cannot be seen anywhere. We maintain resolutions 32 and 33 of the Joint Group to promote rail transport and proximity and rail transport. Even if you say that rail transport corresponds to the Government of the State, of course, the Government of Greece has no interest in asking for these powers to be transferred or to negotiate with the Government of the State what train Galicia needs and how it needs to organize it. The same as we maintain resolution 34, so that, in that laugh recovery plan that you accept in one of the resolutions, if you progress in decontamination of our laughs. However, they reject Resolution 34 of the Joint Group, which speaks of a plan to deindustrialize the shoreline of the river banks. Either we take the industry out of our rivers and rivers or we'll never end pollution. –It's too late. – We haven't reached any important agreements from the productive sectors...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u7	...–I have finished, President; thank you –...as the sea sector, where they refuse to investigate the fall of production, the death of bivalves, and not to increase aquaculture until it is resolved. We did not agree on the eucalyptus, we did not agree on how to focus on the prevention and extinction of fires, nor was resolution 35 of the Joint Group accepted, which intended to support innovative industrial projects linked to the rural environment. I'm out of time. I can't go on anymore, but, of course, the plan realizes that it doesn't respond to our country's needs and that we should therefore start again and seek greater consensus in their negotiation and processing. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u9	We have plenty of time to talk about the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020!, ten minutes. That is the importance given to this document and to the parliamentary process. In ten minutes it's impossible to talk. I thank the Vice-President of the Chair for listening to the opposition as well, and not as President Feijóo, who is the President of all the Greeks, also those who voted in the opposition groups, and who should be at least listening to what is said in these debates, if they want to have some credibility when they talk about their search for consensus with forces that are not the People's Party – which is a lie. Counselor, if you could rule a country with arguments, we'd be much better off, because you use arguments you know. But a country cannot rule with arguments, Counselor, nor with submission to the mighty or with submission to the Government of the State. And within that argument, you talk about stability, institutional stability. Look, when stability is emigration, when stability is demographic indentation – 15,000 Welsh and Welsh less every year – when stability is 2,500 annual defeats, when stability is social exclusion, the disappearance of rural areas, the aging of rural areas, the disappearance of primary rural sectors, when stability is the loss of funds and financial instruments, or when stability is systemic corruption and impunity, we don't want that stability. Just what we want to change is what we want to change. And precisely what we believe is that this strategic plan should be an occasion to change what leads us to all this that I just said, because this I just said is not divine misfortunes, Counselor. We don't want that stability. You said we sent in ourselves. Another empty argument. Look, just one example: we believe that a strategic goal of this country is to vertebrate Galicia, connect its cities with the railway. And we believe that a strategic goal must be to have a proximity train in metropolitan areas in urban areas. Do you know what you're answering us? That for that Galicia has no competences, therefore, ceases to be strategic objective. Look, because today we don't have railway skills doesn't mean that shouldn't be a strategic goal. Either we should act to have these powers, or we should work politically with the state to materialize this, but it can not fail to be a strategic goal when you're talking about reducing emissions, when you're talking about sustainable mobility. So we can't give up that strategic goal because we don't have the skills to do it today. That's sending in ourselves, Counselor. We reiterated our disagreement on how this strategic plan was handled. We were given a document that was cooked with little time to make contributions, and to make witness contributions. And at all it was a document worked from minute one, as it should be, and not with a reactive participation and to dress the saints. This is much more serious, when you present a 2015-2020 Strategic Plan in mid-2016 and, in addition, more serious, when you are finishing a legislation and there may be a change of Government, Counsellor. And this strategic plan should serve any government, not just its government. You're saying there shouldn't be improvisation in politics. Look, what were the forecasts of the Strategic Plan Galicia 2010-2014?, what was that, when we saw the result of the forecasts you made?, what was it? It wasn't improvisation, when they went wrong in all the main predictions, wasn't it improvisation? If anyone needs to see – that I think there are few people who need it already – the failure of the two government laws Feijóo has nothing but to check the disaster of the predictions of the previous strategic plan, disaster. A disaster that means two things: that you have made a few untenable forecasts and that you have not been able to implement the policies needed to achieve the objectives that have been proposed. Those two things are very clear. When you were starting from a per capita GDP in Galicia with respect to the European measure of 90% and you were aiming to reach 95%, and now we're about 80%, that's what it is?, rigor, improvisation and not being able to carry forward policies that at least maintain the level of this country? You were starting from a population employed between 20 and 64 years old of 63% and you wanted to raise two points; now you also promise to reach 10% of the unemployment rate, it's probably going to reduce the active population more than creating jobs, which is what you're doing. They wanted to go up two points and five down, five down, Counselor. Or are these data not important? aren't they fundamental predictions of a strategic plan? Just like the level of opening up the economy or the R+D+i, where you aspired to go from 1% to 1.5% and remained at 0.87%. If they first promised half a point and went down 0.13; now they want to go up 0.7. We'll see if we change government so we can fulfill our forecasts, with you, of course not, and with you and with the same recipes obviously not. And what's also clear is that we just need to study the starting point of the previous strategic plan and the starting point of this strategic plan to know the defeat of the Government Feijóo in these two legislatures. In all the indicators, in all the main indicators, we're worse than when you made the first strategic plan, at all. Look where you look: in employment, with 149,000 unemployed less; in employment quality, worse wages; in social exclusion, multiplied social exclusion; in youth unemployment, multiplied by four youth unemployment; in unemployment over 55 years of age, also multiplied unemployment by 55 years of age; in demographics, much worse, the last year that grew population in Galicia was the year 2010, from there it costs down and a large cost down; in R+D+i, worse; in convergence with the European Union, worse. We're all worse; we just need to see the demolishing DAFO analysis. And it is true that those who participated and did not cook the document and those who did the technical work must be congratulated, because DAFO's analysis is demolition and reflects the results of their policies. Because it didn't all depend on the crisis, Counselor, it didn't all depend on the crisis. A lot of things depended on their decisions, as it depended on their decisions that didn't cost money the paralysis of the renewables sector, the paralysis of the windmill. That didn't depend on money, it depended on good decisions. It wasn't a matter of money moving forward in the country's administrative and political artillery, so necessary; which you don't propose in this strategic plan. This country needs rural articulation, rural comarcallization, in order to be able to make endogenous development in these areas, in order to reverse the rural desertification situation, and you don't propose anything, nor have they brought forward more than an Oza-Cesuras fusion and the beginning of another one. We didn't need money to prioritize sustainable mobility, we didn't need money to fight for a policy framework for the development of renewables. We propose to change the normative framework, and there are answers – which I won't have time to say all – that, if I wasn't because they're dramatic, they're to laugh at. We say that we need to change the regulatory framework, for example, the Decree of Self-Consumption, so that in Galicia there can be a model of decentralized and democratized development of energy, and the Union tells us that what is needed is normative follow-up. And when we say that we have to rescue the hydraulic concessions for the public and so that no four business friends of the People's Party can be found, they tell us that it doesn't make sense to rescue obsolete concessions. Explain: What is that to rescue obsolete concessions? Because the obsolete concessions to which the Galician Union refers are providing 400% of benefits to Mr. Villar Mir. Those are obsolete concessions. What's obsolete is that they've already amortized and they're feeding, and that they might be producing for the public and for the people. That's obsolete. Those who are obsolete are you with these policies. It doesn't give me time, because, of course, the great importance of this debate is given to him, in ten minutes it's impossible. They do not propose any transcendental change, we do propose transcendental change. The country's administrative and political artefacts, comarcaalization, metropolitan areas in urban areas, are fundamental to housing policy and territorial planning. You can't please everyone, Counselor, or there are speculators or the right to housing is guaranteed; both things don't fit, and you refuse. We can't talk about sustainability if we don't limit the expansive urbanism that consumes natural resources. You can't talk about developing a rural with a future, incorporating young people if there's no public policy, and you refuse. Public policy is essential. Public recruitment of people working in rural areas is essential.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u11	...don't dismantle public instruments. There's no other one! The inertia of the free market leads us to where we are being taken in the countryside, Counselor. Or we put the counterweight of the country's general interest, which we need a live rural, or if it doesn't die. The free market is the opposite of what our rural society needs, because it's not free market...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u13	...only free market for four. To gain gain is not free market, because they are subjected, they have no freedom. At R & D+i, we have to talk about realisation, we have to focus on resources in the sectors where we have competitive advantages. In mobility it must be the strategic plan, it should be the strategic plan of the railway...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u15	...if you really want to talk about sustainable mobility and climate change. And the job we'll talk about, but his model to the only one that leads to poverty and emigration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u16	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, as I told you in your presence in committee, I begin by admitting that it is difficult to oppose a plan that establishes, among other purposes, to grow above 2.5 % of GDP, to create more than 100,000 new jobs, to reduce people at risk of poverty by 100,000 or to converge eight points with the European Union and five points with the Spanish State. But what happens, Counselor? To cite just one example: that the Plan 2010-2014 set out the objective that the per capita GDP of Galicia represented 95 % of the European Union, and according to the regional economic accounts of Eurostat – as you know – has reversed up to 80%. There was a deviation of eleven points, and instead of converging, we differed with the European Union and the Spanish State. There is a saying that the role supports everything, but in order for the plan to be credible, public policies must be consistent with the objectives announced, and these must be accompanied by concrete measures, including budgetary allocations that make it possible to achieve these objectives. These are some of the problems of those who are ill of this plan and that is what they want to correct the motions for resolutions tabled by the BNG: In the plan it is apostasised to achieve a model of growth based on innovation and human capital. We totally agreed. But that model requires a well-trained labour force and therefore well-remunerated, and that's incompatible with an economic strategy based on internal devaluation and precarious working conditions, and above all, it's incompatible with the cuts in education and research. In the plan they propose to double R & D spending; also in the previous plan it was marked as an objective that would reach 1.5 % of GDP in 2014. But the reality is that you've reduced R & D spending. Textually quote: "Loss of human resources active in research and innovation, downward trend of R & D spending since 2008. In Galicia the spending intensity was 0.88% below the European state average and away from the 2020 target of 30%". This is what the DAFO analysis itself says that accompanies this plan, Counsellor. That is why we propose, among other measures: raising expenditure in R & D+i, to achieve 3% of GDP by a maximum of eight years; drawing up a budget plan to allow spending on education to reach 7% of our GDP; looking at a minimum investment of 1.4 in the Greek university system, until reaching the European average by 2020, and defining a research and technological career for self-employed people in the Autonomous Community, eliminating the precariousness of researchers and researchers. In the plan, the challenge is to create more than 100,000 new jobs and lower the unemployment rate to 10%; also in the previous plan, the goal was to reach 65% of employment between 20 and 64 years of age. But the reality is that today's occupancy rate is 43.4%. It aims to create more and better employment and increase productivity, but this is not possible with labour legislation that favors the degradation of working conditions. That is why we propose to amend legislation to promote stability and quality employment in the face of precariousness and overexploitation. In the DAFO analysis, among other things, the following initial weaknesses, Counsellor: particularly high unemployment rates in the youth population, rising the rate of timeliness between 16 and 24 years old, need to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of active employment policies, risk that the most vulnerable groups will be excluded, persistence of gender gaps, insufficient measures to support reconciliation and co-responsibility... that is what DAFO's analysis says. That is why we propose an ambitious package of measures on youth employment and develop a women's employment plan, which is already included in the Equal Labour Act. The plan aims to increase the use of renewable energy by 30% and increase energy efficiency by 20%. And again we agree: renewable energy has a lower environmental cost, reduces energy dependence and brings together a strong investment in R & D, and therefore contributes to the change in growth model. But the reality is that his Government applauded the Central Government's decreeing the stoppage of renewables and paralyzing electric self-consumption. The reality, Counselor, is that their policies have led to paralysis and loss of leadership in the wind sector. That's why we propose to push forward the policy changes needed to really encourage renewables and achieve a significant reduction in the rate of access fees, which allows Galicia to derive benefits from her condition as a large electric producer. The plan aims to promote territorial cohesion, and we're asked if we think that this goal is achieved by dismantling services in rural areas, abandoning the dairy sector to its fate or extending eucalyptus plantation to most of Galicia. We therefore propose, among other measures, to ensure remuneration, to take the necessary measures to ensure fair remuneration for milk, to cover at least the costs of production, to develop a strategic plan for the recovery of shellfish and bass fishing and to promote a multifunctional policy of use of the mountain, promoting quality productions, enabling greater added value. If we talk about housing, the analysis itself gives a demolition portrait of the situation, Counsellor: important number of evictions, increase of homeless people, difficulty in accessing a low-income household, an old and underefficient public protection housing park, low incidence of the real estate rental market. That is why we propose to promote a budget programme that ensures the reallocation of all people who have been defeated and to develop a plan to offer 10,000 housing under rent. They suggest as a goal to promote social cohesion, they mark as challenges for 100,000 people to reduce population at risk of poverty. But that goal is incompatible with the cuts in social policies, and I return to the DAFO analysis, Counsellor: the growth of social inequalities, the levels of youth poverty and single-parent homes with their children in charge, the spatial concentration of poverty, the increase in the rate of homes with severe material shortages. That's what DAFO's analysis says. That's why we propose to develop a social emergency plan, as we propose, in health matters, to reverse cuts and privatizations of services, to ensure that all people who are in the so-called limbo of the unit have the public benefit that corresponds to them under the law or to promote a public network of child care services that establishes a equitable territorial distribution. Counsellor, we also have proposals, as you know, in credit, industrial matters, of infrastructures, of land management, environment, language, culture, proposals that intend to put letters to the music of this plan, accompanied by concrete measures, including budgetary allocations, and an orientation of public policies consistent with the objectives set out, because otherwise, Counsellor, this plan is a toast to the sun, a mere propaganda operation, at the doors of the end of the legislation, to sell us a horizon of the illusory future, which radically contradicted the black inheritance that this government is going to leave, but of course, Mr. Counsellor, that, as we have already told you in your appearance in commission, since we are in electoral year, you already assume that it will be a government of another political orientation, another color, the task force to put these objectives into practice. Nothing else, Counselor. Tomorrow we will have the opportunity to continue to deepen beyond the BNG motions for resolutions and beyond the reasons behind our criticisms of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u18	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you allow me, before starting the debate on this strategic plan, you would like, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to transfer a message of support and encouragement to Angel Martínez and to the 110 workers and workers in the Fandicosta refrigerator, which, as all of your lords know, burned yesterday in the Moanese parish of Domaio, destroying the work of more than twenty years and also the future of many families in the Morrazo district and the brewery, the surroundings, the Vigo metropolitan area, in a very important activity for the economy of our country; just remember that around the Vigo river and the Pontevedra river is located the greatest capacity for refrigeration throughout Europe in terms of fishing activity. So I think that I am sure that the other groups too, but from the Socialist Group we want to send you a message of courage and support and that we will be at your side to recover economic activity and to recover those jobs from that factory. Counsellor, you spoke at the beginning of your presentation of this strategic plan today, here in the plenary, just as you did in the commission, when my colleague Mr. González Santín gave you the reply – which today cannot be here for health reasons – to consolidate economic recovery, to maintain the welfare state, that the Administration has no magic recipes but plays a key role in economic recovery and consolidation and maintenance of the welfare state, to use resources effectively and efficiently and that we now have more resources to spend. This was your drawing of what this strategic plan means and it asked the political groups to agree. Counsellor, consensus has a fundamental foot, which is reciprocity. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has tabled no less than 29 motions for resolutions on each of the axes of this Strategic Plan, and at the pre-sessional meetings of this debate today only a few paragraphs of 11 of those proposals, of these 29 motions for resolutions have been accepted. So the consensus would be if you, in that debate before today, had incorporated some of our demands, which they wanted nothing but to make this strategic plan more credible. We are talking, Counsellor, in a context in Galicia in which we have, today, 38,300 Greek homes in which no income is entered – the worst data since there are statistics, since the data are measured – and therefore this 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, which in its analysis of weaknesses, threats, fortresses and opportunities is an amendment to all of what government Feijóo has done, should put on the table the tools and budgets needed to extract Galicia from this bad data that we have, not only in terms of increasing poverty or risk of social exclusion, or Galicia's worst behaviour in terms of both job destruction and job creation, Galicia's worst behavior in terms of industrial production, as well as industrial employment. All the indicators, Counsellor, are now worse than when Mr Feijóo came to govern Galicia, and it is not only a consequence of the international context, but they influence the policies that have been made since Galicia. Therefore, this strategic plan, which – I insist – in its analysis is an amendment to all of the policies of the Government Feijóo over the years, should be the opportunity to rectify these policies and to change the direction of economic policy and social policy of the Government Feijóo, but it is not. It is true that in its diagnosis and even in its objectives, this plan says – with beautiful words, that we can all share – some issues in which all of us in this House can agree. But their daily practice, the policies of all these years contradict exactly what you say. This plan comes to say what we said from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in each debate on the state of autonomy or in every debate on the budgets of every year of Mr Feijóo's Government: that we have a fall of more than EUR 5 billion in social expenditure under Mr Feijóo's presidency, that we have a fall of 59% of the budgets for active employment policies, that is evidence of the failure of Government's R & D+i policies and that it has clearly chosen to lower labour costs rather than to increase the added value of what we have produced in Galicia. Today Galicia is the autonomous community with the third lowest labour cost per worker and has less wages per hour worked than Spain and the European Union. And the investment in R & D+i does not reach 1%; we are, Mr. Counsellor – as Mr. Losada has often told you – at the level of Turkey and Ukraine. This model – its model – based on the reduction of wages, the adjustment of pensions and public benefits, strangles the economic capacity of citizenship, increases poverty and social exclusion, as a result of, of course, a strong drop in available income. And you ask for consensus, but you do not accept any of the important proposals that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward for this strategic plan. Counsellor, our priorities are clear. For us, priorities are: education, education, education, R & D+i, strengthening public R & D+i; if you strengthen public R & D+i, if you invest more money in public research, development and innovation, they will also act as tractors for private research. Increase, regain the research capacity of the Greek university system. To strengthen the role of Igape, and that this is, indeed, a financial agent for the productive investment of Galician Greece. To strengthen the public service of employment, so that it really serves the goal for what was created, which is to serve as an advisor to people who do not have work, who do not find employment, and also as a reorientator of their work skills. You, on the other hand, for these years, are dismantling the Public Service of Employment, firing personnel from that public service, and not giving it the protagonist role that should have in the main problem our country has today, which is unemployment. To define what economic activities should lead the new production model; that is what we call for in our motions for resolutions and you do not accept it. Getting the territorial employment pacts back, to give them a relevant role to local entities in job creation and also to try to bring the demand of the different professional profiles as close as possible to the needs of the people who are looking for employment. Consolidate an educational system that minimizes school failure, recovering staff and the talents that are going from our country. Let our health system become universal again, one hundred percent public, and be sustainable, promoting public health. End the pay gap between women and men and educate on an equal basis. To provide the demographic dynamisation plan, which you have quickly made, with evaluable targets, with follow-up indicators, and not that it remains, as it is now, a sole advertising and propaganda tool for the service of the Greek Government. Mr. Counselor – you said at the beginning of my speech – you present a strategic plan that will not solve the main problems that Galicia has today. And I insist on the data: 38,300 homes in which no income comes in anymore, the worst data since we have indicators. Well, in view of this reality, when the socialists propose that social inclusion income includes all people who have no income in our country, since until now it barely reaches 30% of the target population, you reject it. When socialists propose that what is said in the Dependency Act be respected, you reject it. When socialists say that a real policy of rehabilitation and conservation of housing must be made and that access to a decent housing must be guaranteed, whether in rent or property, you refuse it. And what about the primary sectors, Counsellor? Milk, forestry, fisheries. You in all of them choose the powerful and leave the weakest in jail. They abandon producers in the fisheries sector, abandon producers in the dairy sector and stand by the powerful, setting prices that are impossible to assume because they are lower than production costs. And you're not willing to change the forest model; to give the Galician mountain a change in the model of exploitation, to make it multifunctional; to diversify activity, to diversify and transform the products we produce, to generate that added value that would give us a better position on the national and international market. Energy, which we consider a strategic activity for the country, is true that the regulatory framework does not help, but you neither fight against the regulatory framework nor are you willing to put it in front of its political action. What do you say, Mr. Counsellor, of the environment, of nature, of the protection of our natural spaces or of the management of the territory? Policies absolutely abandoned by this government, which the only thing you did in the first place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u21	...to order the territory was to generate more confusion and more chaos, both with the municipalities and with the whole of citizenship. And, of course, you're not willing to get rid of the powerful cultural industry that we could have in our country, in our creators and in our cultural heritage, to generate jobs and wealth. And they're not willing – because in our proposals this way – to recover all the rights of employees and public employees. So counsellor, good diagnosis, goals that sound good, but reality rejects what you come here today. If they want consensus, they have the opportunity until tomorrow, when we vote on the motions for resolutions, to accept the 29 motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which I think modestly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u22	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u23	...would contribute to strengthening and creating this strategic plan, which, in other words, will once again remain in beautiful but empty words of content. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u24	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Of course the People's and Government's Group are currently very close to the workers of the refrigeration company that burned yesterday in Moaña. And I'm sure all the members of the House share the concern and we'll be ready for that company to recover its activity and jobs as soon as possible. From a strategic plan we are debating today, and I think that's the right thing, since tomorrow is the day we're going to talk about what can be incorporated or what should be taken out - they didn't ask for anything to be taken out, but rather that some questions should be incorporated - and I think it's appropriate to talk fundamentally about what is a strategic plan. A strategic plan is to mobilize resources in a non-conjunctional way, but rather to think in long-term terms, in strategic terms, that in this case have a purpose, that is to insert the Greek economy effectively in what is the European Union and what is the economy that tends to globalization, thus avoiding the dispersal of efforts; and it is also a mechanism that allows to evaluate the results. An old definition – when it began to propose strategic planning – that of Ackoff, says that strategic planning is a process that leads to the production of a state or desired states – and when I say states or states I don't mean political states, Mr. Sánchez, but I mean state states. So, looking for the desired states in the future that are unlikely to happen if we don't do something to achieve those goals. Technically, a strategic plan has a number of features. The first is formalization; it has to be written, it has to be on a consultable physical support. It has to be possible to quantify it and it must also be possible to measure its results. It has to be a document that integrates the set of activities of an organization – in this case of the Self-Government – into everything that makes sense to public action. It must also be an instrument based on prospective rationality; that is, it must be realistic, depending on the competences and the means one has to achieve the goals. Fifthly, it has to be an instrument based on reality, in what is at present, and so they usually include an analysis of the situation – in this case a DAFO analysis –. And, of course, you have to explain the planned actions, the hierarchy and the management, and you have to do all of this process participatoryly. Finally, every strategic plan is also cyclical; that is, it is a living document that is being studied, that is being renewed and modified, because it allows – and this is one of its characteristics, some that today come to talk about corruption – precisely transparenting political action, allows the action of the autonomous public farm, and is therefore one of the most interesting instruments of control of public action that is available in a modern state. Finally, we are with a planning that serves to coordinate the activities of an organization; to take the future into consideration, to introduce the long term; to streamline decisions based on the means and competences; to control the activity of the organization, both when it acts and, above all, by the results it intends to achieve towards the future; and also to provide information and to certify me to economic agents, which is good in turn to encourage and enhance economic growth. The opposition to the strategic plan that we have just heard from the groups of this House, I think it is precisely because of what the Government is bringing about because it is consistent with what the Government is doing. Because it is obvious that this government is coordinated – and there are experiences of governments that are not coordinated, and every day there is more evidence of governments that are unable to be coordinated. Because it's a plan that thinks about the future, as the Government has done since it took on its responsibilities, both in 2012 and in 2009. Because the decisions taken are rational and adjusted to the means and powers of the Autonomic Administration. Because this government has been adopting rules that promote public control for years, and because we like to give it to economic agents. Interestingly, opposition groups have made thirteen compliments to the strategic plan we are discussing today. AGE and the other groups said the DAFO Report was magnificent. In fact, you have to know what reality is. That's one of the three that is presented today. Even the spokesperson for the Block said that the goals were impossible to disagree with them. So we're talking about that we're in agreement with the analysis of reality but the objectives that the economy has to achieve. And the spokesman for the Socialist Group, in addition to praising the one who wrote it – he said, to me, the truth is that I was made a little harder to read the Strategic Plan as to say that the words it incorporates were beautiful – he said that it was the diagnosis well – that is, the DAFO analysis – and that the strategic lines and the objectives were also good. Well, this is the strategic plan. You are, in effect, basically praising the Strategic Plan and questioning other things. They're questioning the strategic plan of last year, the plan of the previous period; they're questioning whether it's good, better or worse the reality that reflects the DAFO analysis, but they're not, at the bottom, questioning a strategic plan that is an instrument that can be adapted, govern who governs, both in the priorities and expenditures that are being carried out. The Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 that we are debating today technically corresponds to what is an excellent strategic plan. First, it has physical support; it's three tomes, 704 pages. It is possible to quantify and measure. In Volume II, chapter V, there is a system of indicators that has 463 indicators of results of this plan, including financial, productivity, results, compliance with the objectives of the 2020 European Strategy, and also a context of the Strategic Plan of Galicia compared to what is happening around us: the famous benchmarking, which you don't like. Because benchmarking – speaking between us – is comparing how Galicia is and how Andalusia is, for example, to see how the crisis affected each of the two autonomous communities. Thirdly, it is clearly integrated. Activities have been prioritized. There are four axes that affect all administrative action: employment and smart growth, well-being and social cohesion. It was said here that there was no mention of health. The first priority on the welfare and social cohesion axis is a sustainable health system, and there are many proposals and many indicators to measure the best evolution of the health system. The third axis, the sustainable growth, which includes rural and sea territory. And fourth, digital society and culture, which is also accompanied by a fifth cross-sectional axis, which is the modernization of the administration. All of this is developed into 74 strategic targets and 21 instrumental targets. And that's what makes this plan strong. There is an impulse to economic growth based on a model based on innovation and human capital. There is collaboration to achieve a cohesive Galicia socially and territorially, where jobs continue to be created. You have this plan also prospective rationality. The targets are listed, and the current situation – against what has been said – also allows us to be optimistic. Average GDP growth. Average GDP growth of 2.5 is expected. When it was mentioned here that the Greek economy was going to grow in 2015 at rates above 2, the opposition laughed at us; it said that as it was possible that Galicia would grow more than Germany. The last available data – which has passed unnoticed to members of the opposition – is that Galicia is growing the 3.6 – Airef data – above the Spanish average of 3.4. Airef is an independent body, I suppose they won't question Airef's data, which, in any case, are homogenous to the whole of the country. We therefore believe that there can be an average GDP increase of 2.5 over the period. More than 100,000 jobs and 10% unemployment. Since 2013 we have reduced the number of unemployed by 60,000, leaving 15,000 busy. He dropped four points at the unemployment rate, which a year ago he was at 21,83 and today he's at 12,2. Duplicate R+D+i expenditure and raise exports. In 2015 a 5.6 grew; in 2016 they are growing a 6.5, far above the average of Spain, which is 2.1. Lowering other 3.5 points at the drop-out rate. In 2009 it was 25.8; in 2015 it was 15.7. And so on, ladies and gentlemen. We think it's possible to continue reaching these goals. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] There's a DAFO analysis that's been praised, there's hierarchies. And the analysis is good because the process of developing this strategic plan was the most participatory, and it makes this plan the best that has been done – as some experts have said in the history of our autonomy –, the most participatory that has ever been in Galicia. By highlighting some questions, it was published last year on the website for the access of the entire citizenry and not just of its lordships. It has been sent to all the municipalities of Galicia, the faculties and departments of the three universities, social agents, clusters, third sector entities, sectoral associations, professional schools, etc. Three discussion forums were developed with eleven work tables on demography, business competitiveness and social cohesion, in which social agents, collectives, associations... nothing to do with strictly, with which political militancy is involved. All the unions who wanted to participate, all the organizations, all the schools, etc. participated. All of this comes to Parliament on February 4th this year since you already have a physical record of that document. The councillor appeared a month later, and we've been here since 4 March – when the advisor came, as you know – having several meetings to improve the Strategic Plan, which will result tomorrow with the transactions we agreed on 6 April, 27 April and 2 May. I, ladies and gentlemen, honestly, believe that there has never been such a working plan, so involved, so negotiated with social agents, with society in general, and also in this House. And finally, it is cyclical because it is – I insist – it is gradually correcting it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen – to conclude – we want to congratulate the advisor and his team, who originally made this plan. One thing to say is to congratulate you because you don't know if you know that Barcelona has just approved a strategic plan for your city; Mayor Ada Colau has charged you with an external office, has outsourced the development of the plan. We're still in the old politics, which is working with public officials, who are the best in the world. So, from there on, this document, which was prepared by public workers, exposed to society... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u27	...and discussed with you, it's a document that makes social spending without raising taxes, which starts a growth path by reducing debt, which maintains the solvency of the Autonomous Community. Counselor, congratulations, and we trust tomorrow to make some improvements through transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u28	Thank you, Mr. Puy. I announce that the debate will continue. In particular, we will do so after the vote on the non-law proposals, and we will do according to the following scheme: a round of spokesmen to set their position on the proposals for a period of ten minutes, and we will then vote on the motions for resolutions. I remind you that for the motions for resolutions and the compromises today end at 6.30 p.m. We're still on the agenda. We move on to the second point, which is about appearances. The opinion of Mrs. Director of Infrastructure and Housing, on his own request, to report on the actions and measures that the Board has put in place within the framework of the RehaVIta Plan, the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, rental and improvement of access to housing 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u29	Mrs. Ethel Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, on February 24, immediately after its adoption at the Council of the European Union, the Government of Greece brought to this Parliament the RehaVIta Plan, the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, rent and access to housing for the period 2016-2020, to be presented, analysed and debated in this House. And today, given the commitment to maximum transparency and also to provide detailed information in the management of the Government, I come back to this plenary on my own request to account for the measures and actions that we have launched since the Galician Union in the last fifteen months since the approval of this strategic planning. Because, ladies and gentlemen, although social and housing policy has always been in the strategic priorities of this government, in recent months I have to say that we have intensified work and resources to ensure access to a home for those most disadvantaged groups. We intensify work and resources. What's significant is that we're betting on this plan, the RehaVIta Plan, which is the first autonomous housing plan of the Government of Galicia. We started from the previous experience, from the work done. In its design we have taken into account the housing policy that we have been developing in recent years, incorporating those measures that have been identified as better and effective, but in which we also include new actions that we have already set in motion and in which we are working for their development. Because, first of all, ladies and gentlemen, the RehaVIta Plan is a plan for the present but it is also a plan for the future. It is a plan for the present because it is the roadmap that we are following with the current public housing policies, and it is a plan for the future with planned measures and actions in time that lay the foundations for a sustainable model that will enable us to respond to the real housing needs of the Galician families in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fully aware that, despite the economic improvement that is beginning, there are sectors of the population that do not yet perceive it and have serious difficulties in meeting their basic needs, such as the issue of housing. What we want and what we're doing with the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, renting and improving access to housing is redouble efforts. We increase budget splits and activate new programmes and measures to address more situations and respond to the largest number of families and people. And we do this by giving priority to the most urgent needs, such as those affected by the evictions of the usual housing. To achieve our goal and towards gaining operationality and also organization, we decided to structure this planning based on four axes. The first axis is access to housing, with EUR 107 million, to facilitate adequate housing for the Greeks with difficulty in achieving it. The second axis is housing rehabilitation and urban renewal, with 134 million euros. The third axis is designed to prevent residential exclusion, with EUR 64 million, to cover those special risk situations in families where housing costs represent a very high percentage of their income. There are also other measures with less quantitative impact, such as 2 million euros, which are fundamental to achieving the full development of this plan. In total, therefore, it is EUR 307 million in public investment to mobilise a total of EUR 600 million. And the most important thing is that it will benefit – it is already benefiting families – a total of 152,000 people, making it easier to access a home to those families who need it most. But we're not talking about these kinds of measures that are only on paper, we're talking about effective measures, real measures, actions that are already helping these Greek families. First of all, I would like to refer to an area where Galicia has been a pioneer and remains a state-wide reference: the rehabilitation axis for housing and urban renewal. They know that the Galician community has been 30 years since its transfer, promoting the rehabilitation of homes and buildings both in rural centres and in historical assemblies, or in the area of Santiago's roads, and launching rehabilitation aid programs and also directly affecting actions. Galicia was the first autonomous community to declare areas of integral rehabilitation, and currently has the largest number of areas of integral rehabilitation declared –68 in total –. A couple of examples: last year ten new areas have been declared, so 2015 was the year of the largest number of area declarations since its creation in 1996, and also this year we have already declared a new area, that of the Vite neighborhood, here in Santiago. And we must not forget the rehabilitation area of the Santiago Way, a unique case of rehabilitation in Spain, which includes a total of 107 municipalities and nearly 500 parishes in the four provinces of Greece. In April, the Official Journal of Galicia issued the resolution opening the deadline for requesting this type of comprehensive rehabilitation aid in the housings located on the Santiago Road, which can be applied until 30 November. I'm talking about the "Vivendas do Camiño" programme, the biggest bet of the Galician board for the rehabilitation of housing linked to Galician heritage and identity; grants in which the Union will finance 35% of the rehabilitation works of those dwellings located on the Santiago Way, up to a maximum of 11,000 euros. And the aid will also be higher when it comes to rural living, aid, in the case of rural living, in which the Union will finance 80% of the total costs of actions up to a maximum of EUR 12,000. Therefore, the Union will allocate EUR 2.7 million for rehabilitation grants in the areas of the Santiago Way to which the EUR 500,000 must be added for infra-vival rehabilitation this year. Thus, in total, 3.2 million euros in 2016 in the "Life of the Way" programme for the improvement of these housings located on the Santiago Road, which will allow to mobilise a total of 9 million euros. Therefore, they are the help of the Government of Greece to make a strong bet, a strong bet to improve the quality of life of our neighbours by improving accessibility, improving housing conditions, also to look after our surroundings and therefore our identity and our landscape of Greece, and also giving a new boost to the countryside, trying to fix the population and generate wealth and employment in the parishes and villages that run through the Way of Santiago. Let me also highlight something important about this Road Lives program. We created this plan, this program, with a vocation of permanence. We intend to continue, because we are talking about very useful social calls. Also last April 4 were published the help of the Galician Board to allocate more than 2.7 million euros to grants for the rehabilitation of housing buildings within the building rehabilitation program of the state's 2013-2016 rental and rehabilitation plan. The maximum amount of subsidies per building can reach up to EUR 11,000 per housing and the same amount for every 100 square meters of useful surface area. And when it comes to buildings declared goods of cultural interest and catalogued, it can increase to EUR 12,100. In April we also published another order of EUR 600,000 for aid to housing owners to obtain the building assessment report, grants that can benefit 1,200 communities of owners to have that document, this essential document, essential requirement for access to public aid for rehabilitation of buildings. And also in April, on the 27th, the Official Journal of Galicia made public the call for aid in the rehabilitation of housing in rural areas, in the historical assemblies and in the streets of Santiago, for 4 million euros. To these orders new calls will be added; one was published today, the aid to communities of public promotion housing owners, with 1.3 million euros, published today in the Official Journal of Galicia, and others are in processing, such as the help to the municipalities to improve energy efficiency, with 300,000 euros, which we will also publish in the near future. So it's a whole set of performances, rehabilitation support aids, which is complemented by other important ones that the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo has been developing in recent years, making direct rehabilitation. This is the case with the rehabilitation of buildings that is being carried out in the old helmets of Betanzos, Lugo and Ourense. In Betanzos they know that we have assisted in drafting projects and working direction for the rehabilitation of three buildings. We are destined, we have recorded, EUR 1.2 million that will allow eight housing units to be made available for social rent and also to make three commercial sites available. Our intention is to start the works of these homes for social rent this year. In the case of Lugo, in the area of Tinería, as you know, we also finished works in 35 buildings, where 82 homes were obtained, 20 commercial sites, and in which 25 million euros were invested. This year we are also planning to bid for rehabilitation works on the constructions of the Tinería Street, number 30, and of the Recanto do Mine Street, number 17 and also to draft the project of another building and thus complete that apple, which is almost finished. The drafting of the UI-8 urbanization project will be carried out around it, as well as the project for the execution of three housing buildings that are included in that area. In the council of Ourense we will also bid for the rehabilitation of two buildings in this exercise. We have allocated EUR 1.3 million in the budgets. Therefore, as you can verify, ladies and gentlemen, these are measures, actions, which demonstrate a clear wager from the Government of Greece for the recovery of the historical nuclei, rural housing and for the conservation and revitalization of Galicia. That's how the figures certify it. Between 2015 and 2016 we will have mobilised some 40 million euros for rehabilitation, taking into account the calls for rehabilitation aid made last year and those enabled or planned for this year 2016, and those directly through the Institute. With these background and our interest in continuing to advance in this line of work that Galicia has undertaken many years ago, in the Union we took the initiative to create the architectural and rehabilitation prizes – we called them for the first time this year and they are born with a vocation of permanence – the Greek Architecture Prize and the Greek Rehabilitation Prize. And there are also special awards for sustainability and professional trajectory. They are winners in which the Union wants to distinguish and project the professionalism of our architects, of the architects of Greece, recognize the work that is being done by the renovation, rehabilitation and value of rural nuclei, and also by bringing value added to building, also promoting environmental responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, from the German Government, of course, we also want to make it easier for the people of Greece, especially those in need of more urgent help, and that's why in our programs public housing promotion has a prominent place. In the last fifteen months alone we have delivered around 300 public promotion homes in Ferrol, Pontevedra, Ourense, Carballeda de Avia, Vilamarín and Ortigueira; most of them in social rent scheme. In addition, in second broadcasts we also delivered more than a hundred dwellings, which were also assisted by the plaintiffs' register. At the same time, we continued to develop solely for newly built public promotion housing. This is the case with the 40 public promotion homes that the Union will build in the Coruña office park. In December we published an invitation to tender for the drafting of the project, which will be assisted in a matter of days. It's 40 homes and it's going to be an investment of 3.4 million euros, and by this year 2016 more than one million euros have been booked to be able to start the works this year. We will also build 80 public homes in Vigo, thanks to the provision of 7.2 million euros in budgets. You know that last February 17 we bid contracts for the realization of these projects; these projects will be assisted this same month, and what we are working on, and what we expect is to bid throughout 2016 the construction of these housing. By the way, Mr. Bugallo, dwellings that will be built on plots handed over by the Vigo Town Hall but not for free, but in exchange for 10% of the buildingability to the Vigo Town Hall. With this new promotion, the Government of Greece provides Vigo with new public promotion housing to meet the needs of the most disadvantaged families in the city. In addition, in 2016 we also plan to bid 8 homes in Covadonga, Ourense, where we plan to invest a million euros. Once these buildings are built, they will be assisted by those persons and families registered in the Housing Claimant Registry; a register, by the way, that I have to say that we will provide more flexibility, short-term selection times and allowing or giving the possibility that private prosecutors can contact the applicants directly. The dwellings that are assisted in rent schemes will become part of the public housing park in rent owned by the Galician Union; therefore, these 3,100 houses which are now the public housing park in rent schemes of the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute. At Junta, we also work to help those who need it most with these more than 3,100 housing units in the Institute's rental scheme, to avoid settlement of contracts for default and mortgage executions and to simplify the payment conditions of the debt, because that's what the decree we're processing. They know that we are processing a decree that develops that Galician housing law, provides for payment facilities, payment fractions and a term extension of depreciation. And it also allows people in difficulty to pay 50% of the income they have allocated without accruing any debt. Similarly, the new decree collects new formulas to facilitate access to housing in a public promotion regime. We're talking, for example, about a co-ownership regime -- a new formula that we make available to those families who have incomes of up to three times the IPREM. By the way, we raised the top; before it was up to 2.5, now, with this new decree, it will be up to three times the IPREM. The attorney may acquire at least 60% of the property, the rest will be in the hands of the Institute or other administration. But it really has a clear advantage for the owner; it will only pay the monthly quotas of that percentage, but it will enjoy 100% of the housing, and at any time it can acquire 100% of the property property. Another new figure will also be that of concerted housing; those houses built by private promoters and other public promoters other than the Institute, preferably in intermediate or small localities, where the existence of demand is believed. A public-private collaboration line will be established in those municipalities with less than 25,000 inhabitants, with private promoters to facilitate the construction of these protected homes. The promoters will build public promotion homes with their own resources, but with the assurance that they will be sold as a whole. The municipalities will approach the ground and also bonus fees and licenses, and the IGVS, the Institute, will qualify these public promotion housing, providing help to buyers and also providing guarantees for obtaining loans to these buyers. As far as self-protection dwellings are concerned, those – as they know – developed by private promoters and who qualify for protections, we maintain the modalities existing in this decree that we are dealing with: the special, the general and the concerted, but by slightly modifying the conditions and raising the maximum income of the special scheme up to 3 times the IPREM, broadening the range of families that can access these self-protection housings. We thus try to offer an alternative to those people who have difficulty accessing the funding needed to acquire a free housing and who are affected by the decline in private promotion social housing. In addition, to qualify a promotion as a housing protected by a cooperative, this decree will require only 50% of the partners; up to now they know that it is 80%. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not alien to the model changes that are taking place in society, and in this way we complement all these initiatives with rental promotion measures; promoting the rent we have set in place to make it easier for families with difficulties to have access to a home. This is a subject we've been working on, and it's been reinforced in recent months to adapt the measures to the real needs of our neighbours. It must be remembered that, according to recent public facts, most of the problems of rejection are by rent-free, and that they respond to the measures we are already in progress. This responds to the agreement signed with Sareb, with the bad bank, for the transfer of empty housing for social rent; the agreements with financial entities, including the largest financial entity in Galicia, making available empty housing. In total, 240 empty homes we're already occupying for social rent for those needy families at risk of losing their housing. And they are also helping us in the prevention of new cases these agreements with financial institutions, because they know that the three financial entities have committed themselves and that another – number 4 – will be added in the near future, not to throw anyone from their home for not being able to pay the mortgage, and that they can remain in their home by paying a social rent of between 0 and 75 euros depending on the family situation. This is what financial institutions have committed themselves to documents signed with the Galician Union. We also created, as you know, the social rent bonus, designed to reduce the problems of evictions by families who cannot afford the rent. At the beginning of the year, we published a new call, which exceeded four million euros, and we expanded the alleged victims of gender-based violence as well as those in extraordinary circumstances, such as fires or floods. Now we've just taken a new step and broadened the coverage of the social rent bonus, increasing the count and extending the assumptions so that they can accommodate this measure. The Board of Governors last week extended this aid from EUR 150 to EUR 200 per month in the case of beneficiaries of the seven major cities, up to two years, 24 months, and we also increased the additional aid, from EUR 450 to EUR 600. And we also agree to extend the scope of these aids to the people who are in the Aluga program. In the coming days, the Official Journal of Galicia will publish this order, which will substantially expand the social rent bonus of the Galician Union. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have increased the counties, the efforts, the assumptions, to adapt the measures of the Union to the needs of the Greek families, trying to give a solution to those people who are experiencing economic difficulties and are at risk of losing their home. On the other hand, and in order to encourage the occupation of these empty dwellings in Galicia, we have also promoted a measure of great silence. I have to say it's a great deal of silence, because you know that last week we signed an agreement with Fegamp, the agreement of the empty housing program, to which you can voluntarily join all the Greek municipalities that wish it through the signing of the transfer agreement. The aim is to mobilize these homes of private individuals, companies and bodies who find themselves unemployed, with the participation of the different local administrations. For our part, the Galician Union will finance guarantees through the payment of two insurances: multi-risk home insurance and insurance for twelve months, with legal assistance and guidance. We need the Greek municipalities to work together with the Galician board so that these empty homes can be offered on a social rent scheme to these families and people who need it. We ask you to cooperate to join this program. I believe that from now on all the Greek municipalities have the opportunity to actually join the struggle against the defeats and support for the people who are in difficulty. They have a real opportunity, although unfortunately there are groups, local governments, which, beyond words, I think they have demonstrated with concrete facts that are insensitive, really, to these housing problems, because they refused the motions to join this program of empty housing that the Galician Union signed with Fegamp, refused to collaborate. Of course, there's everyone with their decisions. My personal reading is clear: they really don't want to solve family problems, they don't want to solve people's problems. At Junta we have clear our path, measures, efforts, resources, commitment to continue working and responding to these needy families. The rental support programmes put in place by this government also allow to intensify and expand this response, and I have to say that it is producing results. In 2015, there were 6,387 families who had help from the Galician Board to pay for their housing rent, the number of beneficiaries that we hope to increase in 2016. Our forecast is, in 2016, to reach 6,520 families that can accommodate some of the promotion measures of the rental of Galician Union thanks to that budget that we have set up of 13 million euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, rental support programmes that we have promoted and that are fulfilling three fundamental objectives. Facilitate access to housing to a huge number of low-income families; adjust the monthly incomes paid by tax collectors to their economic capacity and provide effective coverage and response to those families who are at risk of losing their home. Even so, at Junta we are very present and we are aware that there are families in which the cost of housing is a very high percentage of their income, because they are low, and that is why we decided to focus one of the RehaVIta Plan's axes on the prevention of residential exclusion; an axis on which residential emergency support measures are collected, aimed at solving situations where there is no access to a housing that can bring about social disprotection or exclusion, and the case of the social rental bond I had referred to earlier. Also help for the repair of infra-vivals that we're going to pull out in the next few days in the Official Journal of Galicia. They are aid for the repair of infra-vivals for those municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants in the area of Santiago roads, for those housings that are on the Way of Santiago and that the board of directors approved last week; aid directed to rural people and without resources. Also in this part of the prevention of residential exclusion is the realox program of mortgage executions, in which we have heeded those who asked for help and who meet two simple requirements, so I insist on the importance of informing them of the measures we have and do not encourage despair, because encouraging despair does not give solutions. This year 2016 will also launch a measure that we consider very important and that is collected in that housing decree that we are processing, which is the creation of the Insertion Housing Network. Public promotion housing, which is owned by the Institute, which is managed by other public administrations or non-profit entities will be intended to care for those persons who require special attention because they are vulnerable collectives. The income top for these homes will be 1.5 times the IPREM, and the Institute will sign collaborative agreements with these municipalities, with those non-profit entities, to make these vulnerable collectives available for public promotion housing. The housing will be leased for a reduced price, or even, of course, free transfer, and the entity or body that collaborates with the Institute will manage, control and follow-up of those families that are most vulnerable collectives. A measure so that, in a coordinated and joint manner, between the administrations and the collectives, we can give an effective solution to those collectives who are in difficulty; because, of course, we bet on working together, we have put forth efforts to add a more effective solution, to give these families a better solution. Our goal is that no family in Galicia is left homeless for economic reasons, and that's what we're focusing on our efforts, our resources and our work. We're leaving our skin to avoid evictions, to offer an answer to the affected; while a single family is at risk of losing their homes, we will continue to work, of course, yes, but this problem needs the collaboration of all, of institutions, of collectives, to work hand in hand to prevent the Greeks from suffering situations of social disprotection and exclusion. Finally, the RehaVIta Plan also includes policy measures, I think there is an important measure that will be effective this same year. I'm referring to the empty housing census, you know that credit institutions and their real estate subsidiaries are obliged to register their empty dwellings, their property dwellings, their registration is mandatory in the municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants. The deadline for registering these empty dwellings know that it is 6 months, from 26 March, that this census came into force, and between the actions of this axis there are also measures to facilitate access to the premises properties of the Galego de Vivenda e Solo Institute, improving the selling price up to 50% for those non-profit entities; we are making it easy with discounts of 50% to those non-profit entities so they can access those premises owned by the institute. Also in this decree that we are discussing, if we plan to create the register of promoters: we must register all promoters who want to develop their activity in Galicia; an initiative with which we want to give greater transparency in the real estate sector, but also greater information to citizens, more information to our neighbours, to the Greeks, to the Greeks, to buy a housing that can check the professionalism of that promoter, that they can check the qualities that this promoter employs, and also whether that promoter has or does not impose sanctions. I'm going to finish by now, in this first intervention, I've tried to expose with the greatest clarity, and as concise as I could, the actions of the Welsh Rehab Plan in renting and access to housing 2015-2020. I tried to expose the effectiveness of the first results achieved, and also the next steps we want to continue to enrich this plan to give these families a solution in terms of housing. We also have new measures that I hope to be able to explain in the following interventions, in any case we are talking about measures and investments, e.g. nearly 40 million euros 2015-2016 for rehabilitation and urban renewal, results like 6,387 families that in 2015 have had a help from the Galician Council to pay for their housing rent, 6,520 families that we hope to meet in 2016; therefore, this plan, the RehaVIta Plan, is in full development, at this time 85% of the programmes and measures are running, is an open plan to incorporate new measures, in which we will introduce all the actions that are needed, so you will know in advance that I will listen carefully to those constructive measures that I am proposing and that will be able to move us. Of course I will listen carefully, and we will also add and incorporate those approaches that move us to the different groups involved in the processes of participation, such as the processes that we have opened up with the housing decree that we are processing. We invite all political groups to join together again to work on this plan, which helps us move the information, it is very important that the information arrive for the solution to arrive, because it already pointed it out earlier, that to solve the housing problem and provide greater coverage it is essential to combine efforts and work together. I'll be at your disposal in the next intervention. I'll try to expand or reach any questions you want to move on. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u31	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u32	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, I was getting a lot of attention, because it seems like in this country the most important thing is to make awards, take awards and take photos, make lots of publicity, but really worry about solving the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, I don't know. Well, we understand that housing is a universal right, and that it should have been able to bend the push of planetary business, but it is not always imposed the most common sense, in this way housing, or rather the mercantilism of housing, has become a thermometer of society, a rod of measuring health and the possibility of a people beyond their monetary capacity. The housing policy axes must take into account the territorial structure, the demand for housing and the benefit of the actions in it. We have to look for an inclusive society, give priority to all those emergency situations, especially disadvantaged social groups, cases of evictions, situations of social exclusion, women victims of gender-based violence, older people, new people who can access a home. And we must analyze the peculiarity of our territory, the dispersion of population, try to reverse the trend of the abandonment of rural, as long as we are able to achieve a balance between growth and sustainability. We can guarantee quality of life, where we must not fail to control a phenomenon that is global with increasing differences in demographic trends. We're going towards a more urban world. The population of Greece is concentrated, especially – and we have to take this into account – in the Atlantic Strip, especially where 70% of the population of this country is located. And now it seems to be, now that we're in 2016, that they've noticed that housing is very important for the development of people's lives, and they're setting up their electoral machinery, putting it at the highest point in their government, with the aim of meeting the needs of families with less resources and affected by evictions. And they come late, and they say they want to boil up on this career that started, don't they? to get votes. The effectiveness and response of the Union in housing policy since its arrival in the Government has been inefficient, surrounded by a lot of noise and little walnuts. And here they didn't prevent that in 2015 – and I'm not going to go to 2008 – from running mortgages, if 2,432 releases were carried out, that is, almost seven families every day lost their homes, even though mortgage executions like the defeats came down. These were data given by the High Court of Justice through the Statistical Service of the General Council of the Judiciary. Mortgage-execution royalties were 47, and there were 167 direct housing benefits for families in difficult situations. Most of the evictions carried out in 2015 were the result of procedures derived from the Urban Rent Act, by default of the rental, in particular 1,507, 800 other processes were related to mortgage executions and 227 other causes. And it's true that Junta seems that since 2012 it has assumed 12 measures to prevent and compensate for mortgage drawbacks, or for rent default, but the figures speak for themselves. And here, as in the rest of the state, there is an insufficient stock of social housing housing, which does not exceed 2%, is well below the level of the European Union, which is at 9%; of course, there is a radical rotation, a 180 degree rotation. And this deficiency is the effect and cause of lower or very unequal socio-economic development, if we compare it to the importance of renting in other European countries that are most developed, and where there are fewer inequalities, is Austria with 23%, the United Kingdom with 18% etc. To say that the mobilization of empty housing towards social housing emerges as one of the new housing policies, which urgently needs society and the environment. And now they tell us about the rental bonus, which is for families who face the legal demand for unpaid rental income for victims of gender violence, or for other series of people affected by unforeseen damage, whether they are fires or floods. And it's true that now, and that's what we've already come to comment on in other plenarys and commissions, if the monthly count increases, obviously we're in elections. From 150 we went to 200, mostly in the cities, although it's going down the percentage of the populations on the radio of the big cities with the populations of the interior. And then they go from 450 to 600 to cover the costs of formalizing the new contract, or in case they stay in the same housing to meet the pending receipts. And yes, the census of empty housing, the financial institutions, their real estate subsidiaries and the public society Sareb will be created, which are obliged to record their usual buildings of use that are empty in the municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. Well, it was time, last year they said they only gave up 100 dwellings, but it's true that they're here also under the threat of a fine, and they have some deadlines, I think, until September this year. Let's see if we also take a little example of what was done in Catalonia. Also, the agreement has just been made between the Council and the Galician Federation of Municipalities –Fegamp – to incorporate uninhabited dwellings into all the populations of Galicia. Yes, it is true that we have a statistic that is too high in number of real estates, according to data from 2014 there were over 290,000 empty real estates. On the other hand, we do say that all these kinds of aids have better communication and can reach everyone in need of this situation. Also comment that within the 3,600 applications submitted at the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo to opt for flats in lease arrangements, 772 offered the option of purchase later and 443 were included in the so-called Plan Aluga. It is true that people with more difficulties, above all, will resort to social rental, at a cost, and that's why they must boost the rentals, especially because a great mobility of the new population is also being given, especially by the work theme. Say that in 2007 4,319 protected floors were sold, and in the first half of last year 279. To comment that the contributions from different federations of companies, such as in Ourense, which have one of the lowest per capita incomes in the state, and where they need official protection housing, especially to match the price of the property to the province's average purchasing capacity, above all they talk a little about the cooperative formula, signing agreements with financial entities. It is also intended to reduce the price of this type of housing by 10% or 15% with respect to which the Galician Institute of Housing and Solo marks the start. It also says that, with regard to housing for public protection, there were cases like many municipalities that gave up on the ground and in the end they were returned because there was no money to make the houses. It is true that there has been a shortage of new proportions on the part of the Administration, without placing public promotion floors on the market as well. It is also true that this made the demand for protected housing, both in lease and to buy it, had been very low during the crisis, by the impoverishment – as we said – of the population and by the low wages that would spoil the possibilities of independence too. But it's true that there was 16.3% less than a year ago, 40% below 2014 levels, and when they were over 20,000. I am going to leave for the second intervention, but I really wanted to say, above all on the subject of rehabilitation, that there is a broad social consensus on the need to promote a change in urban policy in favour of rehabilitation, renewal and regeneration of the existing built park and of the consolidated spaces, in view of urban growth and expansion. We are talking about comprehensive rehabilitation area aids, which, in my view, are very, very scarce, and it is true that the new rehabilitation policy must have an integrated approach to improving energy efficiency and universal accessibility, which includes social support, improvements in isolation and – especially all that it said – accessibility. And we must also come into what is called European strategy, which I suppose will take into account. The European Strategy 2020 fosters a low carbon economy that meets commitments to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% and to reduce energy consumption by 20% and increase the use of renewable energy by 20%. It is true that rehabilitation also has a demand for close employment, and what if I wanted to comment – which I am going to leave for the second intervention – is that I find it incredible at this point that certain European models that have not been looked at that almost for more than 50 years – not to say much more – are the common services in buildings with several tenants and tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u34	Good morning, and the people who visit us up there, see if they don't get too scared. Counsellor, once again theatre, theatre of evil, with a fundamental question, the right of people; theatre and cynicism for roasting. Counsellor, here's a dilemma: whether they face the structural causes of the housing problem in the country or not. Either he's on the side of the housing business or he's on the right side of the housing. And this is not empty words. Look, the dramatic problem that there are 2,400 annual evictions in the country, that there are people who are going to the streets every day in this country is the result basically of two factors: the generalized impoverishment of this country's working class and the generalized impoverishment, increased in recent years at housing prices product of a speculative model that you have promoted, because for you, housing is a business and your policies cannot collide with the interests of certain agents and certain people who do business with housing. And that's why these two factors make more and more people who have problems so they can have the right to housing. And, look -- they're not empty words, they're data -- you said they aspired to reach 6,000 people with some kind of rental help. All right, but what's the matter with you when we're talking about that in this country one out of every four people is at risk of social exclusion, when more than one out of every four people has severe material charities and when one out of every three people in this country lives in a home with high unemployment intensity? Counsellor, that's called the policy of charity and dissimulation, nothing else, is a structural change that avoids the drama of evictions and housing. And you're simply not with those people. All you care about is the possible electoral wear that can have the visibility of a drama that is to see every day the images of people with children and older people who have to go to the street for the speculative voracity of their friends and of you as accomplices. Zero credibility, Counselor. And his friends, his cynicism and his theater translate into the next. Here they spent 9,000 million euros to rescue the savings boxes, for sanitation, and it turns out that now you're selling here a picture of Mr. Feijóo – or yours, I don't know – with Mr. Escotet, who bought Abanca at the price of friend, gifted, who's getting away with that purchase, with the 9,000 million euros that we all put in, and who's willing to put in a few homes – some of them live! – at a rent price that doesn't exceed 30% of the family income, and the Galician Junta paying all the expenses of those homes. Or Sareb, who we all paid, and to whom we took out the speculators – we took out the hands of those who created this crisis – with billions of euros, the toxic assets; the toxic assets we took them. And we still have to say hello as good news that Sareb makes an agreement with the Board of Hundreds of housing for four years where people can aspire to have a rent that is 30% of their income; and the certification, energy efficiency and municipal tax expenses – of all kinds of taxes – we pay them back to us. Four years where Sareb will make the dwellings that they decide to make available to the board for four years, and then, when the bad mouse passes, they will speculate, as you are speculating even with public promotion housing, that sell them in Madrid to vacuum funds. Look, if they want to solve the problem, what they can't do is answer what they answer us in our strategic plan proposals. We have to create a public rental park that deserves such a name. What is the percentage of public rent housing and the social price in this country? Counselor, say so. How much was it when you arrived in 2009 and how much is it in 2016? So say, when we don't get even 1% of the social rental public park, and in Europe there are countries that reach up to 20%, and the average is between 15% and 20%. Are you ready to make public housing policy? Are you ready? No, because they refuse our proposals. There's something that, if it weren't for the drama people are living, would be laughing. We propose to regulate the private rental market, yes, sir, as is done in most European countries: regulation of the private rental market for people and regulation of prices. [[Murmurs.]] And what does the Council say to us? It doesn't work, because the private market is not a regulated market. Tell me later. Why isn't it a regulated market? If you're already regulating it! They're regulating it in favor of those who have business properties, but of course it's regulated. The question is whether we regulate it in favor of most people or in favor of a few. That's the difference. And then it's fine. I say theater... you come here... I think we're in May 2016 – I don't know if I teleported, but I think we're in May 2016; you've been ruling since 2009, where the defeat figures were already dramatic – and come to us in May 2016 to make promises. No, look, you have to start balancing, first, these seven years, of the results of these seven years, and you have to take stock of the effectiveness of the measures that have been carried out. You in 2016, seven years after being ruling, can't come here with promises, and still on promises of measures such as creating an empty housing census – which is very good – or starting to have disaggregated data of how many percentages of rejection is habitual. Seven years after you arrive you are promising measures that are simply the basis to analyze the problem! It's a real shame and it's a demonstration of the cynicism you're talking about. They don't care. And, then, they come here also with this authority that gives you the councillor of a government during the two legislations in which if 18,000 families were defeated, with that authority to be able to resettle with the previous program 45 families, with that authority of a person who didn't even have data on which they were the regular house defiances or who didn't have an empty housing census, and with that authority they will be asked to account – and criticize – to the governments who arrived in May 2015. They haven't done a year yet and they're already asking for your account and they say they're responsible for the social drama this country is experiencing! You're not ashamed! They're not ashamed! They're in total shame, that's all! Do you know why they won the mayors of the Tide? You know why, exactly? Because... Don't get nervous, we've got a lot less time to say things to your face. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] I know they don't like it. I know they don't like being called corrupt, I know they don't like being told that they've been funded by certain interests. [[Murmurs.]] I know, but let me at least talk; let me talk. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the Tides drove out the People's Party governments in the three main cities in the province of Coruña without financial means, without companies that financed them in B, without media friends, precisely because citizenship was... gentlemen of the People's Party, listen, that's what you hear in the street, that you're the party of corruption, of those who are with you from above. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Let me speak and hear the truth, gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] They were thrown out because they were corrupt governments and they were thrown out precisely because they were complicit in these abuses; without financial means, without money, only with people's strength. And you, with all your money, couldn't win the election. [[Interruptions.]] They don't come here asking for explanations who's been able to put the drama of the frontline and the line of the debate. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u35	Please finish, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u36	If it were for you, they would be totally invisible. Have a little shame and dignity, gentlemen of the People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u37	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, people you see here today in Parliament, Counsellor, very good day. I still remember February 24, of last year 2015. From this very rostrum you yourself presented to the German Parliament the RehaVIta Plan 2015-2020...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u39	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u40	...rehabilitation, renting and improving access to Galician housing. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, I told you that the publicity of this plan did not convince us. That first housing plan that you say elaborates the Galician Union in its entirety is not so. [[Murmurs.]] The first thing you did was finish with the plan that was in the former bipartisan government, which had a much more social housing policy than the one now announced to us. Secondly, advertising, of 307 million euros of public investment for six years, 51 million per year. In the Bipartite I remind you that in 2009 165 million were spent in a year, compared to 51. He was saying that this plan was going to benefit 152,000 Greeks and that the goals were to facilitate access to housing for those who need it most and encourage rental. Now we see that he has already delegated himself to the Town Councils. It seems that he renounces his powers and now delegates the issue to the councils. He was talking about boosting rehabilitation, and today he's giving us a lot of interesting figures. We have 68 ARIs and a figure of money for the ARIs. If we distribute it between the 68 ARI of 130 municipalities, it touches more or less to pay about 40 or 50 roofs of the houses – so that we realize the importance of this plan –. Tell us about insurvivor. With the funds you spent on the infra-vival, if you had to do roofs in the houses too, it was only 50. Tell us about the rural nuclei. An important amount, which we share the funds this year for the 30,000 nuclei, would give little more than 66 euros per nucleus. They're very important plans. He's telling us about the prevention of exclusion by means of infra-vival and royalty, of the rental bond, the one he told us about last year, and it was so good that they had to increase it because it was totally insufficient, and he has such draconian characteristics that many people, many families, cannot opt for it. They talked to us and told us today about policy measures, and in two legislations the most important measure is – oian – to make a housing census. In eight years, the Galician Union didn't have time to make such an important standard as to make a housing census. This is the publicity that makes us here again today, and it must be the fourth that makes us the People's Party. We're campaigning for June 26th, but by October it's over. Advertising – I told it then and I repeat it – for us, for BNG, is not a real housing plan because it's not meant for Galicia. The plan you had in 2009 was liquidated; they have agreed since 2009 – and that is the balance – that more than 10,000 Greek families have gone into the street, and are homeless. It's a cut of more than 75% of the funds that were spent on housing. That's the balance you bring us here today. It did not serve to stop the defiance – and to the press I send myself and to the Valador himself, who has repeatedly called us attention –, does not guarantee the right to a housing – recognized in national laws, our own and even international laws, but it is wet paper – and does not protect people. That is yes – and I remind you that Abanca was rescued from public funds, and speaking only of the Welsh bank – it was necessary to spend 9,000 million euros to rescue Abanca; and here we have a plan for six years to which the Union dedicates 300 million. Some 9,000 million euros to rescue only Abanca, and it seems that there's no interest here, that there's an agreement with hundreds of homes, which, by the way, we pay. Therefore, neither did the regulations that we have at home; regulations that claimed thousands of Greeks and Greeks, which they saw as many of their family members have gone out of their homes irremediably. Too many families, Counselor, 10,000 since 2009; but if we count those who were mortgaged to try – let's say – to cut down what was unattainable we're going to 30,000, and they follow. I don't know if it's seven every day, if it's six, if it's five, if it's four; in any case, too many, Counselor. That's the reality that we have to face here, and you come here to repeat what you told us about a year ago and that you repeated on several occasions. We're here to report on the RehaVIta Plan, but from last year until this year, I have to remind you that the People's Valedor has urged public authorities, including the Galician Union, and banking agencies to protect their defeated families with minors in charge. Do you remember Ribeira, Vigo, villages and cities? The People's Valedor made calls to address the best interests of the affected minors, minors in a vulnerable situation. Where, Counsellor, a plan for a Greek housing, which allows families to be defeated with minors?, where is that plan? We've seen more defiance, remember? Ourense, The Coruña, Compostela; in March, Vigo, a woman sleeping for two weeks at the bus station to attend; Ourense, San Cibrao, a victim of gender violence with a minor charge; in April, Ferrol, a couple with a baby for months, a couple with three children, two minors, a separated woman with a daughter. Recimil district, 160 empty dwellings of the Union and families try to take them. And May 3 shows up in Vigo three families who have to put themselves in a hunger strike shop. The most populous city in our country turns out that there is no housing available to shorten this indentation. Where's the German Housing Plan? They ended, according to the council, because they had to deal with two challenges in January, twelve in February, six in March and four in April. Unfortunately, we've always found press reports of ongoing cases and more cases that are not solved by the Autonomic Administration, which is the one who has the competence of housing, exclusive, and renounces its competence to the German Government itself. That's why for us it's a completely incompetent housing policy. Knowing that there's a lot of families going out in the papers, but there's a lot more out of shame because they know that going out in the papers is putting their face. And if they put their faces behind them, there's no place to rent the house, no one rents it and they're not going to be entitled to those rentable bonds. Because in order to be entitled to that rental bond, you have to have a housing estate that you can rent, you must have no debt to the public administration. So one thing is talking and another is governing and having proper housing policies. The Greek Government couldn't make a balance of eight years, two laws, of housing, because the only balance it has to do is cut and cut. In 2009, € 185 million for housing; in 2015, when this plan begins so fabulous, 28.9. If we compare all this, we'll realize that while ruling the People's Party, compared to the previous, which was so bad, they lost more than 725 million euros for housing. So more than 725 million euros have been cut, and now they come up with a six-year plan that talks to us about 300. They can repeat – and I'm going to finish –, Counselor, a thousand times that you have a plan, you can repeat a thousand times that there is a relocation program, a thousand times that there is a housing rental program, that they have uploaded it, but the reality is that unfortunately more than twenty thousand families while you have ruled have been deprived of a fundamental right. Oh, but there were other countries that did something. The Basque Country has made a Basque Housing Law which recognizes the right to have a decent housing in rent, as a subjective right and which can be defended in the courts. There was a Catalan law, by an ILP, adopted unanimously, which fought against the evictions, which guaranteed the reallocation of families, which obliged banks to offer social rent, which obliged the electricians not to cut off those who could not afford the light, which required an increase in the public housing park. Counsellor, there are countries that are legislating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u42	...in spite of the fact that at the state level they present remedies against those laws adopted unanimously. But sadly, the German Government neither legislate nor defends the interests of all the Greeks in the matter of housing. So bring us back here a law of propaganda and advertising that doesn't solve our problems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u43	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Mr Sánchez Bugallo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. We're here again to take stock of the housing policy followed by the Galician Union through the competent councillor. And I say to make a balance because that's what it should be. Indeed, indeed, as Mr. Sánchez has said before, this is anything but a balance. Listening to the Counsellor, it is understood that many citizens say that every year there should be elections, at least to make beautiful promises to us, even if they then fail. It is also true that by listening to Mrs Counsellor and analyzing the reality of management, one fully understands the meaning of this "doing more with less." With less money it's made more advertising and it's much cheaper to pay ad pages in newspapers and make loud statements than really give wheat and solve the problem. So that we understand each other well, I'll give you an example: On March 1st, a headline published by the press daily said: "Ethel Vázquez points out that aid for the rehabilitation of housing on Santiago's roads poses a unique opportunity to improve the living conditions in rural areas and dynamize it." Well, let's see what the only chance is. On April 8, the decree regulating this matter was published. Having a unique opportunity there is already quantified: 3.5 million euros for rehabilitation of rural housing and half a million euros for rehabilitation of housing on the streets of Santiago. Half a million euros. Impressive! There are 150 municipalities in Galicia, Counsellor, crossed by the Way of Santiago and there are 250,000 dwellings in the rural centres that must be rehabilitated – not I say, the strategic plan that the President of the Union has incorporated as an annex to the agreement document that was signed with the National Housing Plan 2013-2016, 250,000 dwellings –; we divide 3.5 million euros between 11,000 euros, which is the subsidy, for how many housings? About 320. I mean, this is an extraordinary plan that could rehabilitate 0.1% of the housing needed for rehabilitation in the rural centres of Galicia. And it's an extraordinary plan that would finance the rehabilitation of 75 homes, divided between 150 municipalities, without any doubt, suppose a unique opportunity, as unique as it touches the primitive, which are more or less the same possibilities. Counsellor, whatever you say today, four months from the next election, when you are concluding this second rule of law, or you are overwhelmed by the facts, or you have no credibility. And in your case, not only do the facts not only support it, but they absolutely deny what you say, and take all the facts away from it. As you know or will know better than I, or should know, the housing policy of the Galician Union is divided into three games: 451A, Rehabilitation; 451B, Access to housing, and 451C, Management and Administration costs. The only thing that is executed is C, which is management and administration costs, which is to pay staff, telephone and postal communications. With 451A, Counsellor, in 2009, when his government arrived at the Union, he had an amount of 74 million euros, and 75 percent was executed, 56 were spent. In 2010, by their cuts, they had already fallen to 35 million euros; but the worst was not that, it was that only 10% was executed, only 3.5 million euros were consumed. And the record was, without a doubt, in 2013, that nearly 22 million euros budgeted were executed less than 300,000, just 1%. In 2014, when you entered as an advisor, in the first half of the year, 22 million euros were executed, and in the second half, thanks to its excellent management, 50,000 euros were executed from the remaining 21 million to run the game. In 2015, as we approached the elections, great effort, increased management, and executed 47%, 11 million euros over 23. In total, Madam Counsellor, of EUR 230 million that had the Galician board in its rehabilitation budgets left EUR 150 million without investing, i.e. the two-thirds of the budget allocation. Let's talk about another theme: the National Housing Plan 2013-2016, another example of speed for which they should be congratulated. First, the agreement that materializes the plan is signed on September 6, 2014, twenty-one months later; that is, a four-year plan will be lost almost 50 percent of its time. By the way, and in an effort of transparency, this group asked on the 8th day to know the text of the convention, and it was forwarded to us on September 6th of the following year. A year just to send us the text of the convention. Even as an example of speed, I would say that the President of Parliament's notification is signed in May and the departure log in September. It must be that moving from the second floor to the lower floor is an extraordinary path. Just a year to give us the copy! But the fact is that in that agreement, apart from that, it turns out that the orders that had to regulate its application began to be issued in 2015, and some even in 2016; of an agreement that, Your Honor, had a duration of four years, of which two and ape were already going through. The result of all this, and by the way, I would like to thank the sincerity of the April 8 resolution, because, among other things, that resolution says that in the years 2011, 2012 and 2014 the aid and subsidies were not called, and literally says, "due to budgetary restrictions." You just need to add that the year 2013, which were the ones that were called, didn't start paying until 2015, two years later. As a result of all this, Madam Counsellor, in the matter of protected housing our community is absolutely on Spain's tail. See, if in 2004 to 2008, in those five years in Spain, about 180,000 protected homes were built, and some more than 13,000 in Galicia, 13.100, that is, 7%; in 2014, you're already a advisor, according to the data in the IGE downloaded this morning, 84 protected homes were delivered in Galicia, 84. Of the 2,500 that was the problem then, 84. A whole example of effort. But those 84, you know what they mean? That's 0.50% of Spain, we're down from 7% to 0.50%. On the other hand, in free housing, curiously, 2,624 over 35,000 were made, that is, 7.4%. So there are things that work, which is private interest, and there are things that don't work, which is what responds to the general interest. What about the families who are losing their homes? You've already spoken here. Seventeen thousand are the data from the draft. Whenever you're with the story you'd have to break up, you don't really know. Look, in seven years they've had time to study that subject and to break down those 17,000 of them correspond to each category. What we do know is that the two-thirds who are losing their housing to today are for rent-free. And on this whole subject, the policy of the Galician Union is a real scandal. We're not going to talk about the forty and so many families that were included in the relocation program. In total, by all concepts, including nearly 200 people or families who have been accommodated in foster homes as a result of domestic abuse, or gender-based violence, do not arrive, there are no more than 400 families who have been resettled over these seven years. It's a ridiculous balance with respect to the magnitude of the problem. Counsellor, they'll make 40 houses in the Coruña. Do you know how many are on your waiting list in Coruña? 2.296. And they're much less than you were when you got here, you know why? Because people get deleted, because it's no use. And the 80 homes you're going to do in Vigo, do you know how many Vigo's on a waiting list? More than 3,000, more than 4,000; 80 housings is what you're going to do to solve the problem of 4,000. And do you know how many there were when you got here? 7,000, and there's only 4,000 left, not because I've solved the problem to the other 3,000...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u46	...they're only 4,000 because the other 3,000 have been deleted, because it's no use. In short, ladies and gentlemen, you say one thing and they don't do the tenth part of what they say, and unfortunately the facts do not endorse what you promise us today in Parliament. I'm afraid all this is just publicity and propaganda from the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u48	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Bugallo, listen to him again, I knew perfectly that you were going to come with the 451A match, because it's because he didn't put himself in the head that please explains to him some of his economics, which explains what he is – and I should know what he was mayor – which is an incorporated budget, because the advisor has already explained it to him, we explain it several times, and what is a – inexecutable – match of Mr. Zapatero's time, a 2005-2008 housing plan; they explained to him clearly: 44.7 million euros that Mr. Zapatero said and the Bipartite: we're going to execute a hundred percent, and we're going to play there and what comes behind him. That was theater, and it was electoralism. And you were told and he comes one after another out of the same subject. Look, facts," you said. There are no better and better advertisements than the Official State Gazette or the Official Journal of Galicia, the Dog. And not you because you cut down and yourself say or share false data will never come to certain conclusions, Mr. Bugallo and the spokesmen of the rest of the opposition, no. Because you look, it's not true what you said here, for road policy 2,700 million or 3 million euros – I don't know what you said – No, look – 500,000, sorry, the rest said it was for rural – that's one, one of the announcements from the Official Journal of Galicia where it says 3 million for rural rehabilitation and 500,000 more for historic roads or themes. But apart from that, there is another call, which ends on November 30 with applications, and is currently in force, which is EUR 3.2 million. And of course we would love it to be 12 or 15 or 20 million euros, even the 165 million Mr. Pombo said he had at that time the Housing Council, the eye!, the Housing Council; it wasn't everything else, it was a particular adviser, where – never said – it was the BNG chiringuit, where they negotiated and passed you money from here to Xestur and from Xestur to the other side and so we're going to throw, right? You know very well, because you had government responsibilities at that time, and you know very well what they did with Xestur and the 263 million euros, that you had to clean up Xestur as you left it. That was investment, at the time of the Bipartite, that was investment, indeed – he said – and there I give him the reason: expenditure. Like the housing plan that made the BNG of 3 million and peak euros in a report, and that was investment in people, eh! Some do, that took the 3 million and peak euros, some cabinet, the rest not, eh! The families left him without the houses, exactly the same, because they had to come to other governments to finish them, which you tried to project. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's clearly. And if we talk about waste, and I tell you that while there's only one family, a single family that has to leave their homes for economic reasons, it's going to be a lot, it's going to be a lot, and I'm convinced that the current government of the Union is going to work and keep working so that even a single family can get through that. Now, agree, because one talk of 18,000, another talk of 7 a day, another of 17,000, another of 10,000. Look, I'm just saying one thing – and I insist –: a single family is a lot, but what's clear is that if any government in this country has set up and taken measures to reduce the defeats, to help families who are going through it, this government was that of the People's Party's Union. That is very clear, and there are the measures, and in fact so much so that, less than a month ago, up to an AGE initiative – which, of course, is not suspected of being PP, is it, Mr.Anton?, of course not, we were asked – and we all voted in favour, so we did it from everyone – in commission that we did advertising, information, both to the judiciary and to the citizens and to the rest of the people, of the measures that Junta had. Home!, ask for information on measures that are bad I think you're not able to ask for that or much less. Do they really consider them positive, and look!, let us report. And yet you may be right, that there is some misinformation, and of course in some very interested councils that do not get that information, very interested, I don't know why, because there are councils, and I'm going to talk about Vigo in this case, that it hasn't been for two or a half years or a year of government but it's been for several years that Mr. Caballero, and now Mr. Bugallo, who seems to hold onto these policies of Mr. Caballero, of course, man!, neither want to vote in favour nor sign the Fegamp convention, that the president is socialist. That's Vigo's, the Coruña's, yes; the Lugo's, yes; the other side don't know, depends, right, Mr Bugallo? Just as seeing who the candidate is depends, or candidate depends. So, of course, if you take Mr. Besteiro's policies, buf!, you don't even know, but in Lugo they voted yes, and it seems to be Mr. Besteiro's or Mr. Leicega's. If we go to Santiago, Mr. Bugallo I don't know, now Mr. Orozco is on the other side, it seems that the policies of... but the policies they represent, the policies that Vigo represents are selling public housing. Don't be wrong, that's where we're going. Is that PSOE's policy, Mr Bugallo, on housing? Selling public housing? Even refusing to give up housing, there are families who are on the street and who refuse to give up three homes that have been given up by the Galician Union precisely for those situations and who say no, and the fifteen that you have in the Argentine Republic don't, those we're selling, but those who do business are the right-wing ones, those who do business, and business policies are those of PP, those of PSOE don't. It's better to go to the openings with piano. Well, look, you sell the piano, you might as well help the families. That's what you can tell your friend Mr. Knight. And if we go to the Coruña – it's important, Mr. Anton, Mr. Sánchez – in Coruña the politics in eleven months is enough, and I can say it by experience, because by attending a Breogán party with the Básquet Coruña they gave me, I was one of those who delivered a booklet, which is what they came to do, a brochure, but they promised that in a hundred days they would end up with the mishaps, they promised that, unfortunately; they hoped they would hit me, because if they had that magic potion, we would all applaud. But look, no, a leaflet isn't enough for you, and if you want me to bring you the booklet, I left it at home, oh!, it was a shame, but as far as you know it, maybe even participated in it and therefore no problem, no problem. That's what there is. Man, look, he's not going around. And Ferrol? Home, Ferrol has an important public housing park, very important. What I'd have to do is make it available. What happens is that Ferrol, by declaring the municipalities free of waste, is already; a statement, and it's enough. And here are some people who have dared to talk about the legislation and the good that Catalonia is leaving in the field of Catalan waste and the Catalan legislative process, right, Mr. Pombo? Do you know that Catalonia is leading, along with Andalusia, the wasteland in Spain? I suppose these statistics that you read from the Judiciary Council – I suppose you read them – should not be so successful these policies, they should not be so successful, unfortunately – I say – unfortunately. So what I say and repeat again is that, as long as there is only one despair, a single family in a stateless state, it will be too much, and in that I am convinced that you work on that line on the board of Galicia, but what if we are convinced from the People's Party is that we are taking appropriate measures and that we have gone and it was the only government of the People's Party, both in the state and in the Union, which has taken steps to reduce and avoid the riots. And there they are: measures at the state level, measures at the autonomous level, twelve measures. And what if I would ask them is that in those municipalities where they govern or cogovern or where they have given support, they ask them to participate, to sign this agreement with the Fegamp, to participate in the other promotion measures, to help people, and above all to add, because this is a measure that is not to them: the drawbacks are neither the PP nor the BNG, nor the Joint Group, nor the AGE or the PSOE; the drawdowns, unfortunately, are a scourge in which we should all work in addition, we should avoid them, and in that sense they can be sure that we will find ourselves, and we will certainly look for solutions or at least to minimize those situations. I honestly think that we should work there in an important way. And on the other hand, Counselor, congratulate you, because there are certain rehabilitation plans that I, of course, am a clear advocate of rehabilitation, I am convinced that they will give their fruit. Rehabilitation and rehabilitation plans are not from today to tomorrow, they require development, and I am convinced – and Mr. Bugallo knows perfectly well – that the fruits are seen in the middle, at least in the short term. And I'm convinced that there will be important results, both the RehaVIta plan, with those over 300 million public investment, which will mobilise some 600 million euros, and the investments that are being made right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u49	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u50	...in the different areas –68 areas – of integral rehabilitation that are currently in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u51	Mr. Fajardo, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u52	If they're there, it's for something. Relax, man, relax, it's okay.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u53	Mr. Castineira, finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u54	Finished, finished, Madam President, thank you very much. I really hope they add up, because both waste and any subject of housing and rehabilitation policy is very important to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u55	Thank you. The vice president of Infrastructure and Vivenda has the word for reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I didn't expect any commendations or kind words, but well, I did at least constructive criticisms, but I expected at least. In any case, I think some people confuse criticism with insult. Mr. Sánchez will never miss it, he won't find me there, where he'll find me is fighting with the protection of those families at risk of losing his home, fighting the defiance and fighting to guarantee the protection of constitutional right to a housing. I'll never miss you about it. Of course not, I'm here to work and give solutions. [[Applause]] I believe that, too, Mr. Sánchez, it cannot trivialize the commitment made to Galicia's largest financial entity – because most Galician mortgages are with that entity, and therefore most of the Greeks have the mortgage with that entity – to avoid throwing anyone away and who can remain with a rent of between 0 and 75 euros. Trivialize that, Mr. Sánchez... And I also don't accept you for anything that gives me a kind of social housing. Moreover, his friends of the Coruña, of the Tides, we can, yes, yes, they did nothing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't accept Mr. Sánchez as a social resident, especially what's going on in the rest of the cities. And you don't have the exclusive interest of the general interest. And that of housing, doing business... bad business is what you propose me to do, which is not doing anything; bad business for families what you propose me to do, which is not doing anything, because you don't like anything. [[Applause]] Mrs. Fernández, too, Mr. Anton, you insist on the number of evictions, 2,500. I insist again, I explain again, I will explain it how many times it takes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u57	Mr. Sánchez, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u58	Mr. Sánchez, for you, the summer residence is of utmost importance, the industrial ship of the businessman is also defeated. It's very important to you. [[Murmurs.]] That data doesn't distinguish the usual housing, and you know it perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u59	Mr. Sánchez, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u60	For us, the most important thing is that we're taking out a habitual housing disqualification, not any good that is likely to be removed, as you know that it's that data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u61	Mr. Sánchez!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u62	Mr. Pombo, you said very loud that the competitions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u63	Wait a minute, Counselor. [[Pause.]] Whenever you want, you can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u64	Thank you, President. Mr. Pombo, you said very loudly that housing skills are exclusive to the Galician Union. If you don't understand that housing is also a municipal competition, let's go, we have a problem. Because it's that simple. The Law on the basis of the local regime, in Article 25.2(a) is clear: "The municipality shall in any event exercise, as its own competences, the promotion and management of public protection housing with criteria of financial sustainability". Law of local regime bases, basic law. I think it's a sufficiently clear text. In any case, I think it is clear to most cities of over 250,000 inhabitants of Galicia. There are 16 cities of more than 250,000 inhabitants in Galicia, and almost all these cities have an exclusive housing department to attend to exclusive housing cases; all but two, Mr. Bugallo: Murcia and Vigo. The 16 cities of more than 250,000 inhabitants, both minus two, have specific housing departments. Murcia is uniprovincial, she will have her justification. Vigo, of course, has no justification. Mr. Bugallo, I also expected you to bring me the budget execution. I see you like numbers very much. I like numbers too, but, in any case, quiet, that's already fixed. This year 2016 that money I came to tell you that they could not be executed, that they were incorporated because they could not be executed, because it is now, they are returned to the state, that they were from the state. You knew perfectly well that they could not be executed. They transferred at the time of Zapatero knowing that they could not be executed; therefore, a fictitious budgetary operation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I from this government what I have to say is that it's a government that solves, against those governments or those parties that revolve. [[Applause]] They tell us clearly what they don't like. What would you do? Don't you like to help those families with the social rent bonus about to lose their housing because they don't pay the rent? Don't you like to turn these unused housing into social housing thanks to that empty housing program that many parties have rejected in their full? Don't you like it when financial institutions are forced to make public their housing park through the empty housing census? Don't you like to keep working on the quality of our identity through the Road Lives program? I, listening to what I've heard, of course not. I could accept proposals, if they were constructive, but I didn't hear any constructive proposals. I don't think they have any ideas, so they don't move them, because their revolver is, I insist. Today we bring a balance sheet, a balance sheet of the housing plan, measures that have been put in place, measures that have already been resolved, measures and actions from which in just over a year or so 85% of those measures provided for in the RehaVIta Plan are under way, not the 10% that Mr Bugallo told me we wouldn't be able to achieve. 85% are in progress. I think it's an important percentage, a good sample of the effort we're making and the resources we're going to be using. Efforts and resources that we're dedicated to rehabilitation and that we're going to devote to rehabilitation; in total, 40 million euros. Efforts and resources of more than 11 million euros to make 120 new public promotion homes in Vigo, La Coruña and Ourense. And efforts and resources with EUR 13 million for rental promotion measures. The social rent bonus – which they don't seem to like – is 4 million euros. We increased the count by 33% to give those 200 euros to those people with problems for two years, and an additional help of 600 euros; two years, twenty-four months, of this help. And there are also efforts and resources to solve with new formulas to access a home. They know the measures that are in that decree, that decree that we have for the public exhibition, in which, by the way, we receive only proposals from the Fegamp. I invite the agents and the groups involved to transfer their proposals. A decree that contributes to solving, for example, as I said in my first intervention, the houses arranged to facilitate the construction of shelter protected in the municipalities of less than 25,000 inhabitants. This decree also provides for a new collaboration with other administrations or associations, such as the Insertion Housing Network. This decree also provides for the new co-ownership regime, which I have already explained in my first intervention. This new decree also provides for new protection measures for the most vulnerable groups, offering payment facilities, fractionation or expansion of payment and also, as I said, that people in particular situations of difficulty can pay up to 50% without accruing debts. It also provides facilities to start self-protection housing promoted by cooperatives, reducing that percentage of social people. Or the introduction of the periodic review of the economic situation to ensure that these public housing is in the hands of those who really need it. We're also going to implement measures to improve the functioning of Protected Housing Applicants' Register. And we will also create that record of promoters, obliging those promoters who want to develop their activity in Galicia. More transparency and more information. Do you think the measures are low? Few seem to be the measures, it seems. I don't know why when there were other parties that were in the Greek Government they didn't or adopted the first one. But we're taking measures, we're bringing public housing policies to the current reality to achieve that goal of guaranteeing a decent housing to those people who really need it. We have work, a lot of work, we have sensitized ourselves to these issues, to the drama of challenges. We have work started in 2012, with the Housing Law, which allowed the donation paid in protected housing. That was the first step of these sweets to fight the defeats. The Royal Programme, measure #2; the Agreement with the Council of Judiciary, the Council of Galicia and the Fegamp, on average #3; the Agreement with the Valedor of the People, measure #4; the Programme RehaVIta, on number 5; the RehaVIta Plan, on number 6; the Agreement with the Sareb, on number 7; the Agreements with the financial institutions, on number 8; the social lease bonus, on number 9; the empty housing census, on number 10; the Agreement with the Galician Counsel, on number 11; and the Empty Housing Programme, on number 12. Let me stop on these last two, which are the most recent. We signed an agreement with the Galician Council, an agreement with which we articulate a system to provide a free advisory service to those people with no resources, for Orientals and to help them legally with administrative procedures. And the goal is advice to avoid going to the court, a means of mediation. And the lawyers also committed themselves to disseminating and providing information on the measures, of the twelve measures taken by the Council of Galicia; real measures and effective measures, not measures on the paper, real measures. A month ago we signed this agreement with the Galician Council, and a week ago we signed the agreement with the President of the Fegamp, the agreement for the Empty Housing Programme, making effective, therefore, measure 12 of the Government of Greece against the evictions, a measure that can be voluntarily adhered to by all the municipalities that wish it to offer these housing in social rent, bringing these two guarantees from the Galician Union that I have already said in my first intervention. All the Greek municipalities have the opportunity to join in a real way the fight against evictions and support those families in difficulty. That is why I want from this House to make a call to all these Greek municipalities – especially those of the big cities, because that is where we have detected more problems – to take that simple step – because it is a simple step – and to join this program and to take advantage of the opportunity to fight effectively, in a coordinated manner, together, against the challenges. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in order to avoid this drama, the participation of the municipalities is essential. The municipalities, you know, have important municipal powers, I've said it before. I'm really the closest administration to the citizens, it's the first window to which the neighbors are addressed, to which people are addressed. That's why the city council's participation is so important. That's why I hope the county of Ferrol and Vigo reflect, recapacitate and access to this program of empty housing, which leaves aside that particular interest or party – I don't know how to call it – and that they think about the interests of the neighbors. Since Fegamp they have at no time hesitated to express their interest in signing this agreement with the Galician Union. In the struggle, in this struggle against the defeats, we all have responsibilities. It is not worth preaching, what is needed are effective measures, real measures. It's not worth a revolver, we have to solve it, because revolver is to make the flag of the challengers when there's an election campaign. Revolver is not to implement a single specific and effective measure that protects the right to housing by saying it's competition from others, as Vigo does. Revolver is to declare "free town of defiance" but not to put a single measure or send a single technician to the briefing of the Housing Council to explain the twelve measures, as Ferrol did. Revolver is lying on a TV show that if you've delivered an information leaflet without doing so, you'll recognize in private that you haven't sent it. That's what The Coruña did. [[Applause]] Revolver is to include populist measures in electoral programs, without any intention of carrying them out, as Santiago did. Less talk and more work, that's what I have to say to all these municipalities of just words. We have to do it, we have to work and we have to implement measures, and we have to put those banners aside, we have to work seriously, we have to work seriously. I don't believe it, I have to say it, I don't believe it to all these governments and political groups who talked about the rights to housing and who refuse or do not support this empty housing program agreement. I am also surprised that the municipalities refuse to make available to people in difficulties empty municipal housing, as the Vigo Town Hall does, Mr. Bugallo. He has empty apartments in the Argentine Republic that he doesn't want to target people in difficulty, and the three dwellings that gave him the IGVS in December 2011. So in 2012, I already had them, and they've been all that time, until today, empty. That of course is surprising. Look, ladies and gentlemen, revolver is to dedicate itself to words with zero measures implemented, with unfulfilled promises. And we, since the Galician Union, what we're working on is solving problems and leaving the skin. We'll solve it and others will revolve around it. We work from the first minute in each case, meeting with the affected, offering solutions with effort to help these social groups. We plan, we act and work with these sweet measures, twelve measures that I have personally transferred to all anti-hypothetic platforms. They're not measures in a role, they're real and effective, they're already benefiting the Galician families, because the problems are real and they need real measures and answers. So for everyone's collaboration, I also want to take advantage of inviting them to add and work. And look, ladies and gentlemen, there's also a fact that I think is important, and that surprised me. I suppose you'll be surprised too. In the talks we had with the municipal technicians and representatives of the social services of the Coruña, Vigo and Ferrol areas – I personally participated in those talks – many of these social workers of these municipalities were unaware of these twelve measures of the Galician Union, although since the Council and myself addressed their mayors to give them information. So many mayors don't transfer information to the workers, to the social technicians of the city halls. That's why – I repeat already – I insist: we have to contribute to the dissemination, to give solutions, is what citizens demand: responsibility, collaboration, sum up efforts; what the neighbors do not demand, of course, is to revolt and not solve. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u65	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u66	Thank you, President. Hello again. Well, I first tell the lady advisor that I have the data I never take them off my sleeve, more than anything. And I also remind you of the work and duty of the Board, because I often see that I don't know if we live like in parallel worlds, do we? – it's a sentence – because the Greek Government has a duty to communicate, to disseminate the measures, whether better or worse, right?; in this case they could be much better. It took a long time, as I said earlier, to react to the problem we have, when we understand that in times of crisis there are many issues that must be shielded, especially what we understand by priorities. And then, for another thing that I don't understand: if we really, when we have a problem, we have to go knock-knock at the consulting door. Because the data are there, the statistics are there about the problems suffered by the Greek society. We say that structural measures must be taken, and, well, we should talk about the needs that the people have and are suffering. When we talk about that six out of ten homes have difficulty reaching the end of the month, when we talk about a very high rate of unemployment, when we talk about that 15.4% of the population living in Galicia is at risk of poverty – according to INE data – so, all this data I think the Board – I don't know – or look elsewhere or I don't understand. And then also another question that, well, if you know at the state level and also at the Greek level, is a question of the need that will exist, and that there is, in the present and in the future, the increase in housing applications, where needs must also be analysed at the particular level, especially because there are some peculiarities that perhaps there were not a few years ago. If you comment on one aspect that has now been commented on in the second round that there are nearly three thousand public promotion dwellings that are part of the Union Park and that are going to be subjected to periodic revisions of their economic conditions, which is one of the new features that will introduce the decree that develops the Housing Law adopted in 2012, which aims to ensure that these apartments are occupied by people who really need it and that they intend to favour in this way a rotation in the public housing park, so that tenants and tenants do not continue to live indefinitely in housing that they have access to levels of income that are more modest than those that they can now have. Those families, as a result of these periodic reviews that now exceed the income threshold established for access to these joint public promotion apartments, cannot opt for new rental extensions; that is, they will have to leave their homes when the five-year term is met, so the Administration recognizes their right to live them. It is true that the Instituto Galego is currently assisting these dwellings without the possibility of indefinite automatic extensions, without generally making any revision of the economic conditions of their tenants. Well, I think it's nice for you to take control of who actually occupies those homes, but what criteria are you going to follow? Because economic circumstances at the moment can be better, but in the best direction to a very short future, because they're not like that. So, that's what I'd like you to have explained, because, well, the sentence looks very pretty. And then, coming back to rehabilitation, which was the part that left me with the first intervention, he's advocating the various models of the European Union, which is to go back to the city center, whether of the big cities or the villages, a space that often concentrates the sharpest images that support the citizen identity. And it's true that historical helmets need full regeneration, because there are many cases, abundant cases of abandonment, very weakened identity, degradation and marginality, without businesses and neighbors and neighbors, and even areas that are vexed to citizenship due to problems of overthrow. The degree of conservation improves over the years that many municipalities have been applying protection and rehabilitation policies. Be the example of Santiago, although, well, there are areas to be recovered; Allariz and Pontevedra, who have managed to successfully integrate their historic centers, while other cities, such as Vigo – but not too soon –, Ferrol and Lugo, Betanzos, Monforte and many more towns must recover citizen spaces in a state of real ruin. And, well, yes, stop me in the case of Ferrol, because it's very serious. In fact, from the Town Hall more funds are called for. In the Magdalena neighborhood and in the old Ferrol neighborhood, which are the city's neural center, there are 3,671 censused buildings, where over 1,200 have historical value, and, according to the Town Hall data, more than half needs to be rehabilitated; and the old Ferrol neighborhood no longer says, because it's actually almost ruined. It takes a lot to recover for citizenship. And then to say the cases of Pontevedra that they even saw themselves forced, above all to rehabilitate several buildings, to have to ask for help, due to the blackout of the State Government, to ask for State aid. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u68	Well, Counselor, I don't insult, eh!, I try to define. And if I mentioned that you were doing the theater of evil is because you come to do advertising and propaganda, theater, and because it's of bad quality, just as it's of bad quality the argument that happens to you: some revolvers and others solve. Well brilliant, brilliant intervention, yes sir. Look, and you talked about my friends. Of course, and then I won't qualify. There's an objective fact: yes, I'm a friend of Jorge Suárez, of Martiño Noriega and of July Ferreiro, those are my friends. And there are others who have friends with Martial Dorada, Pachi Lucas and Baltar. Let the people judge. [[Murmurs.]] Obviously, my friends are very different than Mr Feijóo's friends and your friends. So, when you try to argue, please don't get yourself in trouble, for your own good. My friends are honest people, they're honest people, they're not corrupt, they're not corrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And that's exactly why they got to the mayors and threw the People's Party out of there, with no means, no money, no funding in B, no funding for Operation Zeta and Zeta plot in the Crown and no funding for friendly companies. [[Murmurs.]] And they could only come because there was a cry that the municipalities at that time were occupied by corrupt people who were ruling against people. Otherwise, it wouldn't be possible. It was impossible, in the face of such a disproportionate force, for the tides to evict the People's Party of the Town Councils. Well, and you were talking about the defiance data. It's very easy... : come here – I know you're not going to do it – and tell me how many common housing evictions there have been in the period in which you rule. [[Murmurs.]] I only give the data from the General Council of the Judiciary, but come here and tell me what the usual housing data is. [[Murmurs.]] Look – and I always repeat it – is the concern that you had to solve this drama that had to be an initiative of the Alternative Left Galeg that moved them to request disaggregated data from how many defiances were habitually housed. To see what theater they do, what they care about, that you come here in 2016 – seven years after arriving in the Government – make promises of measures that are simply the basis for analyzing the problem. And I'm serious, I don't play theatre, Counselor, and I'm talking about structural problems, which you're not going to answer here. You speak of charity as a housing policy and I tell you that with your policy the problem will not grow, because it's a very simple equation. You have increased, you have multiplied the population at risk of social exclusion, you have severe material shortages; you have multiplied the homes where there is no one who works or has income; you have reduced wages, 35% of wages are not up to 650 euros; 47% of employees today are no longer paid. If we join this fact of the generalized impoverishment of working classes with the fact that housing prices are maintained and they're going to rise again with their policies as soon as there's some reactivation, you see how you can convince me that with your charitable, advertising and propaganda measures you're going to solve the problem. This is serious. I know it's a lot to ask, Counselor, but you've told me about this: if you created the conditions for nearly a third of the population to be at risk of social exclusion and housing prices to continue as they are, how do you intend to solve the problem? If you have refused to take on our strategic plan proposals to create a public rent and social housing park worth such a name, that is to say, it exceeds 1% – when in Europe it is between 15 and 20 – how do you intend to solve the problem, Counsellor? And another of the questions you won't answer – which is in the Minutes – you tell me what was the percentage of public housing rent when you arrived and what today is. Tell me and then we stop talking about insults. If you come here and answer the questions, I think the debate will be enriched. How much was there and how much is there today in public rental park? Tell me how much budget you've been allocated since they arrived, year by year, to the improvement of the infra-vival. How much? Do you know that? Zero, zero, and come here about infra-vival.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u70	Yes, I'm going to finish, yes. What is the average price of renters in this country and what is the average wage of the Greeks and the Greeks? I could also answer that. They haven't even studied it, because they don't care, because you don't get to solve the problem, they come to solve their problem, their problem, which is electoral wear. Because so many people, so many people who are out of the system, so many people who are out of a fundamental right of housing are already insatiable electorally, and that's why you worry about giving him a varnish, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u71	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u72	Thank you, President. Counsellor, we are talking about the RehaVIta 2015-2020 plan for the fourth – as a minimum – time. For the fourth time BNG also tells you that we consider it totally insufficient – 307 million to six years – for the needs of our country. And I have to tell you that I agree with something with Mr. Castineiras: that, in fact, rehabilitation is one thing – if it is well done – that it is in the medium term; there we agree. And I also agree with the advisor that the important thing is to solve, rather than to revolve, but we are told here that in the Tinería de Lugo, the UI-8 intervention unit is going to be harmed. She forgot to say that she was already hurt, not in the legislation this or the previous one, in the previous one; she forgot. And so Mr. Castineiras said they would finish what others didn't. Well, not in this legislation, in the previous one, they didn't solve, they tried to revolve, they tried to do it again, they didn't finish it either, and they didn't finish it, and they didn't get lucky for the next one. So, I think it's very nice that you try to finish two legislates later or third, that maybe you don't touch them anymore – let's hope – an important intervention in Lugo, in the primitive way, which is near the wall, which is the World Heritage Site, near the cathedral too, which is UNESCO Heritage, that building that says there is the Tinería that will put it into action. There's another building on Falcón Street, just stuck to the wall, which's been waiting for eight years. Mr. Castineiras, so effective, you were unable to encourage the Government to resolve it, in the earlier legislate or in this, and that's a small building. There are three building units, one of them attached to the wall – which is also the heritage of the Union –, a tower attached to the wall, the heritage of humanity, which has not been resolved either in this or the previous one. There are two intergenerational buildings in that UI-8 that I was assisted, Counselor, to make 12 apartments and even a very important day center to put in a public service in this historic town of Lugo, which they didn't solve either. There's a palace by Dona Urraca that didn't solve either, Counselor, in one or two legislates, and that's what Mr. Castineiras said they would finish what the Bipartite didn't do. And there are three houses at the foot of the vice-rectory that are still unfinished. And even three building units in the kilnway are still unfinished. So, less wolves, and, Counselor, we came here with constructive ideas and proposals, today and many times. Unfortunately, the People's Party doesn't want them. Ladies and gentlemen, BNG is one of the people who believes that there is no need to rule in favour of the Bank, but in favour of people. And, Counsellor, as I explained to myself badly about the municipal powers, I meant that there were other nations of the state that had legislated about housing. I don't know if you're going to want the municipalities to legislate, too, but they've made legislation, and I mean Euskadi and Catalonia, which they have legislate, Mr. Castineira. And there you can find us with proposed measures. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG is in favour of a German housing law itself, ah!, but which recognises the right to housing, a subjective right and which can be claimed even in the courts; which contemplates the social function of living above property, and which is thirty-one thousand empty dwellings of the Bank, which is the social function of those dwellings rather than economic gain. It can be done in the housing legislation, not the municipalities, but the councillor. And there we are, too, in that law that guarantees the realisation of the defeated families before they are defeated; guarantee of realisation, you can make in a law of Greek housing that, for now, there is no. This law of Welsh housing can force banks and electricians not to cut supply for lack of payment, you can do it. You can find us there, Counselor. The Block is in favor of a dwelling in that category. And you can also find us in a law against energy poverty, and with a law that guarantees housing alone. By the way, the Bipartite had changed it, that guarantee 40 percent of the soil in municipalities over 20,000. They shouldn't be interested in either Mr. Castineira or the German Government, and now they say there's no solo. There you can also find us, and you can find us by claiming to Sareb not a few homes, but those 9,000 million euros sanated to the Bank with public funds, which you can take into account so that they cooperate and don't kick families, staying with the housing by a puddle that they don't face.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u74	Therefore, the German Government can legislate and, in some ways, also force the Bank to be responsibly responsibly fined, no less than 9,000 million euros. Corresponsibility! That law too, there you can find us, Counselor, the BNG, in such a law. And even to promote a social housing fund to ensure that the incomes of people who cannot afford, of all, not only those who are defeated and who have to have a lease...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u76	...and that they can't have any debt and I don't know how many more things, but all of them. I'm done. Mr. Castineira, I know that the Bipartite...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u77	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u78	...it was very bad. He only qualified in four years 8,042 protected housing. His government in the next four did not reach 4,600, little less than half. Home Help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u80	...10,000 or Bipartite,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u81	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u82	...in his legislation 2,600...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u83	That's it, Mr. Pombo. He's here. You got it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u84	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u85	You got it, Mr. Pombo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u86	Here you can find us, Counselor, in a law of your own housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u87	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Thank you. Mr. Pombo, thank you! [[Applause]] Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, gentlemen. They say it's good to talk about one if it's okay. It must be acknowledged that Mr. Touriño and Mr. Zapatero have to be very grateful to the People's Party, because there is no plenary session in which at least six or seven times they do not remember Touriño and do not remember Zapatero. That's right, to blame them for everything you don't do. In the more than seven years they've always ruled, it's Tourinño's fault. Much gives that government to you, or at least much returns to you. The surprising thing about all this, Counselor, of your intervention, is that you have not just taken possession of yourself as advisor, and much less has taken possession of the government than it is part of. This is the end of his second legislation. You are exactly seven years old and a month from Mr Feijóo's take-up as President of the Board and four months from the next election, when some hope that Mr Feijóo will stop being President of the Board and you will stop being a advisor, not because we want them personally, but because we think that after so long as they've been working, it's better that they get a decent rest, to be possible in other activities. You get angry with me and accuse me of not knowing how many things because it turns out that I believe in the budgets of the Board. I mean, the board budgets when they budget 35 million euros for rehabilitation, and I say they only run 10%, and you tell me, well, you know perfectly well that was a lie. Of course I know it was a lie, but because you've been budgeted false. No, no, I'm talking about the 2010 budget. And now what you were doing was a debt they had hidden and camouflaged as if it were going to be an activity. They did this and they did it with industrial soil. They were budgeting and saying 30 million investments. You're lying! I put it in a pocket to cover your debt, because you were doing what you were doing, that instead of recognizing your debt, they were making it grow a little bit, because they kept the accounting, which theoretically they had plots worth more than 300 million euros, when they knew that that wasn't true, or at least that's what they thought. I, Counsellor, the only data I use are those of the budget approved by this Parliament and of the settlement of the budget sent to us by the former Counsellor of the matter and currently the Counsellor of the matter. That's the data I use. There's a mess going on, they say: is that one talk of 17,000 homeless people and another talk of 7 a day. Listen to multiply, 365 times 7 and, how much do you give? 2.555 times 7 a day, it's 17,885. There are 17,000 or 18,000 homes. Hey, that's what we're talking about. Do you think not all of them were first houses or houses? Look, in seven years they had time to do this study unbundled. I'm angry with Mr. Castineira and he says, no, that you say there's only half a million euros to rehabilitate housing in Santiago's Way. Listen, that's what the order published on April 8 says. And there's another 2.7 million. To the ARI, ARI, ARI! There are only 68 ARIs in Galicia, not all the municipalities of the Santiago Road have ARIs and in the municipalities where there is ARIs in ARI occupies a specific area of the municipality. The reality of all of this is that according to your own studies, according to your own strategic plan, there are 250,000 homes to rehabilitate in rural nuclei and there is only money to rehabilitate 320. And that's ridiculous, 0.1%. The truth is that with 500,000 euros outside the ARI, they only give 75 homes, and it's another ridiculous thing. You do what they do, and so the data I'm sending, and the IGE says that in 2014 84 protected housing was finished. That means their housing policy is a tick of the stamp. And that contrasts with the 2600 pounds, which is 7% of the national total, more than 7%, against which only 0.5% of housing is protected. And that's because they've abandoned housing policy. What do we think of their sweet measures? That's not true. Because it wasn't true the budget they made, because they don't execute that budget and because even the budget they have is absolutely insufficient, even ridiculous, in relation to the magnitude of the problem they want to solve with that money. And it's absolutely false that housing policy for the Galician Union is given priority when the Counsellor comes here and assumes that she's going to spend 40 million euros in two years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u90	40 million euros, how much do you suppose that?, you know, 0.2% of the budget of the Board. If priority is 0.2%, I have to tell you it's ridiculous. In short, their measures seem to us few, some inaccurate, like the rental bonus, because we created and understood that they should have kept the housing bottom they had before, which is a way of controlling the housing price. In any case, the lease bonus could be a complementary element. Few, some not well-orientated, absolutely insufficient...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u92	...and the budget would be absolutely ridiculous in relation to the magnitude of the problem. The only thing that seems excessive to us is what they spend on ads, Chinese stories, advertising and propaganda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u93	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Bugallo, for considering that he understood that it was a lie what you were saying about the level of execution and the debt. If it was a hidden debt, indeed. And here we don't mention Touriño, we mention the Bipartite. For something would be, Mr. Bugallo, for something would be. To Mr. Zapatero yes, the truth is he has a great deal of prestige in this House, as in most cameras throughout Spain. I think he's got a lot of prestige earned his wrist one by one. I think that's right, the truth is, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, man, less bad!, of course the bulletin is there, you know, and when the papers are there, they're there and you can't say otherwise. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not all ARIs are 68 ARIs. It's the ARI of the roads, 2.7. That's the order that there are, plus 0.5 million, that is, 3.2 in total for infra-vivenda, only this year, and that ends on November 30th for applications. It's open right now, and I hope you tell your partner – I think that that doesn't go into her, that she's supporting another sector, but still – her Lugo companion; that she's able to inform her neighbours of the benefits that are available for these rehabilitations; that she's capable and that she doesn't deny herself, even in the full, helping and reporting these grants. [[Murmurs.]] Because you don't join the chorus of: the worse, the better, Mr. Bugallo, they're not well. That's what I understand in another series of matches, the Tides, which may well end up getting dizzy, I understand they really go that way. But, man!, you, I had it to you for a little more serious, a little more serious. Yes, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you like, Mr. Pombo, we're talking about the Tinery. And I'm glad you didn't say it was a BNG project today. Because I've already told you once that perhaps if Mr. Cacharro, if Mr. Cuña, Mrs. Manuela López Besteiro or José Antonio González Redondo were from BNG, then the Tinería de Lugo and the rehabilitation projects of historical helmets were perhaps a BNG project. But I think those gentlemen and that lady weren't from the BNG, much less, and that's a People's Party project, no matter who cares. Of course, Lugo weighs a lot, because then they were ruling...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u95	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u96	It just seems to me that he was also in the Bipartite of Lugo at that time... yes, yes, he's right. He's right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because the Bipartite, and then the Block was in the Town Hall of Lugo, didn't want the Tinerary Rehabilitation Plan. If you want to make history. I don't know if that news came to Intius, but if it was Lugo's news, and in Lugo we knew it, huh? The Lugo people knew exactly what they were talking about and what they did and what they kept doing each other. And look, yes, don't confuse an invitation to a project with an invitation to a work, or with an idea that you had about Dona Urraca's palace and UI-8's unit about what you're really and what you're trying to do. And look, if you're worried about the buildings next to the V.R., go for a ride, 'cause they're for receptionals, and they're adjudicating the houses in free competition there. They're finished buildings, but of course, if when in a building that's finished or about to finish if you consider that nothing has been done, then we can hardly talk about real data. It's Galician housing law. Listen, your groupmates, so you weren't, you were involved, and you were the rapporteurs of a Galician housing law. Yes, of Galicia; not of Galicia, of Galicia. Law 8 of the year 2012, June 29. I invite you to look at it and you'll see that we have a law of our own, that many things the counselor is talking about here, precisely, are development of that own housing law of Galicia, exactly. They rated a lot of housing. Yes, yes. Each grant they gave was qualified for any rehabilitation. Then for you they count, of course. They gave grants of 200 euros or 1,000 euros to rehabilitate in rural areas or even things that came in past processes, from the People's Party government. And they demanded the qualification certificate. It was a qualification but not housing. Because in Lugo, of course, I assure you they didn't do any, or you had to come to the People's Party government to finish Garabolo's homes, among others. Yes, among other things, Mr. Pombo. But we can go somewhere else. What we know in Lugo is from the plan of wonderful housing where they wanted to put social housing in the area of Tinería, in the neighborhood of Carme or in many municipalities throughout Galicia where they were raised by their own mayors – I don't know if it wakes up – and so on. Mr. Sánchez, it's all said, voting is the problem solved. There's no more to look at where they support and where they rule. The Valencian Community, for example. I think there you have, are and carry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u97	Silence! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u98	If you take the waste data from the General Council of the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u99	Silence, please!, and finish, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u100	It's over, Mr. President, but we can talk. Look, number of wastes per inhabitant: Valencia, 30 out of 10,000; Andalusia, 20 out of 10,000; Asturias, which has not been governed by the PP for many years...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u101	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u102	...16 discards, in general, unspecified, of last year's Council report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u103	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u104	...in Galicia, 6. But someone spoke about Catalonia. Look, in Catalonia 20 per 10,000; in Galicia, 6. And we're not proud, not much less, not much less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u106	We'll be proud when there's no family that has to leave their homes because of the economic situation. That's what we aspire to, and for that we work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u107	Thank you. Closing turn of this apparition for the Counsellor's lady.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u108	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Sánchez, I don't know how they got to Santiago City Hall, Coruña and Ferrol without means and without money. What I know is that I don't want to work and I don't want to give citizens solutions. That's what I know, I don't know if they've run out of money or means, but of course, they're not willing to work.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u109	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u110	In any case, we've been following since Galician union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u111	Mr. Fajardo, relevant call to order. First call to order. No, no, call order. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence, please, must respect who is in the use of the word. That's what we all like, and we have to be able to listen when it's appropriate. It's up to you now to speak to the Counsellor and then it'll be up to you. We're going to be democratic. Go ahead, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u112	Thank you, President. Since the Galician Union, we are focusing our efforts to address these disadvantaged sectors, to combat rejections, to guarantee constitutional right to housing. It's something that's not ethereal, it's not a varnish, as someone said here. Of course, it's something as concrete as having a proper home with effective measures and real means. We've been working for years to make a policy of protection and attention to those people and families who have difficulty keeping their home. It's twelve measures that we push, twelve measures that respond to comprehensive, joint and planned action to give a solution tailored to each situation. Mr. Bugallo, these are sweet measures that are true, reality. And in case you have any doubts, as I did with Mr. Sánchez, I will send you these twelve measures and the corresponding documentation, with all the agreements signed, the DOGs, etc. Because they're not measures in a role, they're real, effective measures that are helping families. We've helped over 400 families. You don't think so much. I think you just see numbers, but we have helped over 400 families with names and names: Begoña, Dolores, José Manuel, Sandra, Ricardo, Carmen, Esther, Tamara, Mari Carmen, Sara... many families, lords. Today we want to bring the results of the RehaVIta Plan because it's more than a housing plan. It's a mechanism of social cohesion, it's a plan that redoubles efforts, redoubles resources, and we also pay more attention to these situations to respond to the greatest number of people. It's a plan that bets for the future, and putting the emphasis on something that up until now I think it wasn't so claimed and that, of course, I see priority, which is rehabilitation and rent. So you help rehabilitation and rent, which is why we bet from the German Government to the future. We activate more than 300 million euros to give them solutions and help 152,000 Greeks. This plan is in full development. As I said, now 85% of the measures are under way, and we are going to follow this path with ongoing programmes, with new measures to respond to demands. And by the way, I take advantage to say that right now we're working on two more steps, two new initiatives. On the one hand, the rehabilitation loan program, a new formula for encouraging the granting of funding to those people who want to improve their housing. We will sign agreements with financial institutions to grant these loans for rehabilitation. And for those families, they'll have zero interests, for those low-income families. And we're also working to create the deposit of cooperation as soon as possible, loans to the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants so that they can carry out rehabilitation and housing conservation actions. We are working on the order to create this deposit of cooperation, which will be provided with EUR 10 million. So, new measures that will continue to add to the efforts and resources of the Galician Union to get empty housing in those places where we believe most demand, which is Vigo and La Coruña. We've been directed to financial institutions to make more efforts. We also ask Vigo and La Coruña and the municipal governments of the great cities of Greece to think about their neighbours and collaborate with us, to join this program of empty housing for social rent. I hope that you will reflect, that you will recapitulate so that these empty dwellings can be occupied for social rent, especially at Vigo Town Hall. I think you have to reflect, recapitulate and occupy these empty dwellings that the Galego de Vivenda and Solo Institute decided in December 2011 that these housings for social destiny have been empty for four years. I hope that you will finally get to give up these dwellings, as well as those of the Argentine Republic, that you will abandon that business plan to the Vigo Town Hall and that you will send these municipal dwellings, and the housings handed over by the Institute in December 2011, to those needy families. We'll follow up with the briefings, the briefings to report on the help, the measures we have. We've had them with different groups of technicians and workers, who are the people who work day by day with the families affected. So, better than anyone, they, so they know how to help us and move their reflections and their proposals; and also to inform them of the measures that the Council of Galicia has to be able to advise those affected. I think with everyone's participation we can offer a better answer, together we can always do something more. That's why I insist that we join that path. Citizens demand a height of sight, they demand that we work hard, that we work hand in hand to give a more agile and effective response. That's why I think that's where we should meet. For my part, that's all. I insist, add effort to give a more effective response to these families. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u113	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of the environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u114	The following amendments were tabled to this motion: an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u115	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u116	Thank you, President. Good morning. Last week, fifteen days ago, in the last plenary, we told the advisor that we had to steer -- that was our idea -- their environmental management policy towards two basic principles, that of responsibility in managing natural resources and that of solidarity with these generations, but above all with future generations. The counsellor spoke in this Chamber and, apart from the first five minutes in which she didn't say anything, her speech, at the time she started saying something about the environment, she began by saying, "I appreciate the opportunity to talk in these minutes that I have to question how important the environmental policies that have been developed since the Government of Galicia and are developing now, and which obviously start by having a greater budget capacity than last year." I mean, the depth of the advisor's speech was that the environment is very important to this government. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that it is impossible to achieve these two principles of responsibility and solidarity, given that environmental funds have been reduced by 17% in relation to the year 2009, with the 2009 budget, which half of which is carried out in real investments in relation to last year's budget, and that therefore is not true that budget increase by 6.64% of what the advisor told us. The measures that we call upon this board are essentially the following – and so on in our motion – measures. The first one is that it is drawn up once and for all a new plan of action against climate change, because it is paralysed. In the amendment of the People's Party, which we shall then discuss in the reply, there is no provision for this plan of action against climate change. It's still a strategy that goes back to 2005, and we're in 2016. The official government data is 2011 and the advisor told us that climate change investment was EUR 35 million. For we would like to know what part of last year's budget for this year is that 35 million euros, because the budget really was zero euros for the fight against climate change. The Council itself recognises, the Government itself, in its strategic plan – of what we are talking about this morning – that there are certain weaknesses: one in greenhouse gas emissions, which was in 2011 18 points above the 2020 target, that our floors are erosion, that there is desertification, that there is an important vulnerability in our territory to floods and droughts and that there are many pests derived precisely from climate change. The second step we ask of them is to invest in biodiversity, education, information, environmental disclosure, which does not exist for the Government of Galicia; to develop a plan to manage the wolf, especially since 2011 we have a final census, according to the Council itself in an answer that gave us last April. There are more than 90 wolf breeding warrants in the Welsh territory. And what we're wondering – and we want to believe it's true that it is – is whether since they received this data from the state government, who did the census, the government has done something or if they had work ahead of time from 2011 until today. We call for action on the reform of the recovery plan for brown bear. We've been waiting since 2013 for them to do something. We call for effective measures to prevent, extinguish and, above all, to regenerate the floors protected environmentally and affected by fires; to do something more than what they have done and what they are doing on the island of Cortegada. We ask them, as a third measure, that they do not really wait for the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, if one day they see this protection in light, because the municipalities are waiting to be able to decide or to agree on the prohibition in their territories of circuses with animals. You vote against the Committee on the Environment, in which we ask that the law be specifically amended, and they have the undoubtedness of including our request in its amendment, as if it were the People's Party. We call for a hand, even if it's small, on animal protectors, who are the only ones who are worried about boosting sterilization campaigns, promoting tendons responsible for animals, controlling the abandonment and implementation of the microchip. We request as a fourth step to be brave, to ask the Government of the State – now in function – to repeal the Coastal Protection Act of 2013, and we ask them to review the extension of sixty years, that shameful extension of Ence in the Pontevedra River, and to repeal that extension. We ask you, in fact, to add to the healing of the rivers, because it is unfortunate that they continue to be in danger of great pollution, and we do not say so, but it is said by the European Union itself. The advisor used the same number, number 35, just like the 35 million euros that, according to her, were devoted to the fight against climate change, and those 35 are now 35 new debuggers, according to the advisor, which have been done in the last four years. We'd like to know where they are and when they've been tendered, whether in the last seven years or in the past. It is incredible that the advisor, who is from the Coruña, comes here to say that 100 million euros have been invested to improve the situation in the Burgo River, and that to complete this sanitation plan will invest about 6 million euros, thus trying to complete this action plan. Even worse, because when the European Parliament's members, the members of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament, came to Galicia, went to the Burgo stream, and a divers went with them, as they put in their report, and that man – who had put his feet in the mud, with two-foot muds – were almost unable to get it out, because the mud swallowed it, according to the report itself. And it's less bad that we already took 100 million euros used to complete the Burgo River Sanitation Plan. It's an act of courage on the part of the councillor who was 15 days ago in the plenary, say that what they ask of the Ence is that he fulfils with the river of Pontevedra and with the environmental situation of Pontevedra and its county, when this government, this councillor, had said absolutely nothing about the amendment of the Law of Back, and in addition, the only one that existes from the Ence is a commitment to abolish 15 million euros for a debugger that is owned by the Unity of Galicia and that, therefore, the Council itself would have to invest in it and not ask the Ence to help the River of Pontevedra with 15 million euros. And finally, we also ask you to derogate your taxes from water legislation, because, indeed, these taxes were to fund new works that do not exist, and to remove that unfair and unjustifiable increase from the waste treatment canon, because it is not true that Sogama is a model; neither is it modern nor is it efficient nor is it self-sufficient. Besides, it's not true, as the advisor said, that the councils can freely decide whether to enter Sogama or not, or whether to continue in Sogama or not. It is only necessary to read additional provision 21 of previous year's budget laws to know what is called a veiled coercion in its own additional provision. And it would be nice if someone could explain to the advisor that there are no unconstitutional resources for this cannon, this canon climb, in the matter of waste. What there is in question is questions, doubts, about, precisely, the accommodation to the Constitution of this increase in the cannon, and these doubts are not those we are on that side of the bench, but they have judges and judges in Galicia, who doubt that it is constitutional. And in fact, it may be that those who occupy those benches that are now empty also exist these doubts, because the lawyers of the Autonomous Community who go to the trials where these issues of unconstitutionality were raised, received orders from the Government to withdraw the demands and reach an agreement with the councils that did not abrogate that increase. We ask the Conseilaria responsible for the management of natural resources, solidarity in his work, because it's not going to be that in this legislation, where we're left with legislation, we're going to have three environmental advisors, to have four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. I wanted to start by saying that we shared a good part of the analysis that has been done from this rostrum by the PSOE spokesperson, especially as regards that during this legislation we had a diminishing environmental policy where clearly the role given to the environment is residual, and even steps have been taken back as far as planning itself is concerned. That at this point there is no kind of strategy against climate change in our country. I think it's the most obvious example of how this government is not only not with the times, but has no alternatives to the challenges and the most important problems that we can face. And we also largely share some of the measures that have been proposed in this motion, both in relation to climate change and in terms of improving the management of those weakest elements in our ecosystem, such as the management of the wolf or the management of the bear, or others that have to do with the protection of animals, where there would be some debate in greater depth. But, in fact, what we're doing here is putting very concrete, palliative measures in some cases, about aspects, about a responsible tendance of domestic animals, which we know is that it's concern for many people and also a symptom of how far we're progressing in rights and how far we're progressing in this respect; respect that, in fact, in this House often shines also because of their absence. In any case, our group is presenting a two-point amendment, fifth and sixth, and in the remaining three minutes I'll try to explain why. We, from the fifth point, what we remove is the word "revision", because we understand that, since this Parliament can only be politically positioned on what the future of Cence has to be in our country, what we believe is – and we have to say clearly – that it does not arrive with a review; what we have to do is to derogate, because even as it is drafted, it would seem that there could be an extension, even if it was not for sixty years. I am convinced that this is not the intention of the Socialist Group, but I recognize that, when we read this amendment, we read this motion, it seemed to us that it was a little confusing and, therefore, what we say is that this Parliament is clearly positioned in which Ence has to get out of Pontevedra's creek and that it is also clearly positioned against that caicada which at the bottom was the reform that made the People's Party of Back Law, because what it is intended to maintain, for example, installations like Ence against the will of people. So that amendment, that point, is just going to make that issue very clear in relation to the aspect of Ence. And then, finally, we also feel important about the proposal we make at the sixth point, because we are against any increase in the waste treatment canon in this current model. We have given a very broad debate in this legislation, and I think it is meridianly clear that none of the groups are in favour of the unilateral rise that the Government of Beijóo has made to the treatment of garbage; a rise that is not only questioned by its legality, by the way it has been done, but we say that it has no justification from the point of view of what is being done, and we believe in the need for a new waste plan. But I have to also say with absolute clarity that we cannot agree under any concept when we are told that Sogama must be converted into the manager of all the wastes originating in Galicia. We don't believe that, because we don't believe in a centralized model. We think that this position at the bottom is invalidating that the directive can be applied, because the Sogama model is a model that is in practice against – as it is conformed – that the directive can be applied. The more waste it produces, the better for Sogama; the more waste it burns, the more benefits for Sogama, and even now Sogama is illegally treating waste. He's dealing with it, first of all, because he's untreated by some sort of garbage in the dump, and therefore he's breaking the law. But they also violate legality because the directives are saying that at least 50% of the waste must be recycled or recovered, and in no case that figure is met in our country. From the Block we defend another waste management model, a decentralised model, a model that is actually affixed by the three errors and that has in composting a fundamental foot. We therefore hope that the amendments we propose will be collected, because if we do not, on these issues, we would ask for a point vote, or we abstain from this, that this will not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u120	Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, you make up your interpretation of a motion that includes 16 measures, of which 14, 75% of them are already being done; with which, we can say that we agree on a 75% in your motion, but we disagree on a fourth part. I hope those we don't share give me time to explain them, because they wouldn't be good, in addition to many of the things you propose, because they would even have effects contrary to what you want. I also regret not knowing what you're going to do with the amendment that the majority group of this House made, the group that represents most of the Greeks, because if we knew about it, we could also try to clarify those points where you had some kind of doubt. Look, we want to continue to face climate change, so we want to include in a report the measures put in place by the self-government in this matter. And we also want the drafting of an environmental sustainability strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been dealing with climate change for some time. For years we've had a first report on Galicia's climate change, including 84 measures, managed by all the departments of the Galician Union, which have an investment of 35 million euros. And now what will be the second report on climate change, gentlemen. Besides, and just as the advisor in the previous plenary stepped forward, the Board has been working on the basis of Galicia's first Environmental Sustainability Strategy -- a strategy that will identify what challenges Galicia faces in environmental matters and what opportunities will arise in our community. We want to continue investing in environmental education, information and dissemination measures, as well as to continue developing the wolf management plan and adapting the brown bear recovery plan. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue to watch for the protection of high-value environmental areas, with particular attention to those areas affected by forest fires, promoting their regeneration. The Galician Union has the means to prevent fires and to re-enter the burned areas. In this line, ladies and gentlemen, the Plan of Prevention and Defence against the Fires of Galicia has just been presented, as every year, and this regeneration is also reinforced in the spaces protected by the Environmental Council, carrying out urgent regenerating actions on those habitats or protected species whose state of conservation has been significantly altered because of the fires. We want to continue to ensure – of course – strict compliance with the provisions of Law 1/1993, of protection of domestic animals and wild animals in captivity. But we also want to speed up as much as possible the new preliminary draft law on the protection and well-being of pets as possible, which includes the prohibition to use wild animals in circus shows. I told you the other day, the project is public, allegations have been made and the claim period has been closed. It doesn't make sense to modify a 1993 law when there's a project in progress. But you're dumb in your insistence, and on top you think you're here to find out, because... I don't know. Look, we want to enforce the law and continue to improve the regulatory framework for the protection of captive domestic and wild animals. That's why we started in March the processing of the preliminary draft of the Greek law on the protection and well-being of pets. This text introduces important news; the most significant is perhaps the prohibition of circuses with wild animals throughout the territory of the community, typifying the so-called infringement as very serious, article 40.ll: "Take into account very serious infringement of the use of wild animals in circuses". It's public, it's in a preliminary draft. Worry, unload it, read it, and then come to think, it's not wrong. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, we want to move forward in the fight against animal abuse by establishing the mechanisms necessary for its prevention, for its struggle and punishment. It is also ascribed to the education of citizenship with regard to animal protection and to the prohibition of all conduct that involves certain mutilations in animals with the sole aim of maintaining racial or aesthetic characteristics. We want to promote the adoption of abandoned animals in the collection centres and the restriction of sacrifices, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u122	We also want – as you are asking in your motion and which will be included in the preliminary draft – the clear and specific obligation of identification through the microchip. Mrs Vilán, all this goes in the preliminary draft law, which is public, which has been open to allegations, that there have been allegations from various groups and that it follows its process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u124	The problem, Your Honor, is that you have not read this preliminary draft and come with proposals that are included in that preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u125	Finish it, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u126	And that, Your Honor, is indeed an undoing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u127	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Trenor. It's over or your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u128	Mrs. Vilan, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u129	Thank you. Look at the clock...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u130	Our group has begun with the aim of reaching an agreement, and it is in his hand that we can reach that agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u131	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u132	Thank you, President. Hello again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u134	We're going to support this motion from the Joint Group, although we'd also have some killing at the various points. We understand that in these times of crisis we have lost a great opportunity, to get on the train from the development of environmental policies, especially in view of the insignificant assumption that the board itself has. We must demand the major polluting industries that greenhouse gas stations are responsible for and avoid locations that damage nature and quality of life, pollution. The European Union has committed itself to reducing its emissions by 40% by 2030. We understand that it is essential to repeal Ence, with the extension he made in the Pontevedra River, as well as other industries that are also within the Galician rivers, as in the case of the Ferrol River. A legal framework must be approved for investors to develop renewable energies safely, which ends with greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, and keeps us away from rising temperature by two degrees centigrade, looking for energy efficiency and intelligence. We must also bet on the broad environmental advantages of collective transport, especially at land and sea levels. We must also take into account the percentage of the population in Greece that lives mainly in certain areas. We tend to go to a more urban world. The degradation, fragmentation and unsustainable land use endanger the provision of several key ecosystem services, are a threat to biodiversity and increase the vulnerability of climate change and natural disasters. We know that 19% of the coast is practically artificial. And also with the European directive on water. There are many municipalities that pour their water into different rivers – as we have already commented – and they violate the European directive. We can also talk about the need to preserve species – as they have commented – like the wolf or the bear, in which other animals would also be included, such as fox; and even the problem with agriculture and pesticides in the case of bees and responsibility that should also be borne by the owners and owners of domestic animals. It is very important to guide policies especially as regards forest, forest masses, which play a major role in the preservation of nature. We must defend our native flora. It is possible to make it compatible for the protection and conservation of socio-economic development of the municipalities, including within their scope. We must invest in prevention and the importance of the extinction of fires. Why doesn't the Galician Union have a serious policy in controlling invasive species, in which we almost accounted for 200 different species? We have to look at the percentage of eucalyptization that Galicia has, 28% of forest surface mass. In terms of waste, great awareness campaigns are lacking. Also another one of the eves that has the population itself is the dispersion of the population, which plays against selective collection, by not facilitating the way to do it, and measures towards a circular, efficient economy, avoiding millions of containers that end up in a dump and elsewhere, and thus transforming waste into raw materials and resources. Let us put the example of Catalonia – which has come out a lot today – where 80.7% of the household packaging was recycled last year, a figure of eight points above the Spanish average, followed by Navarre and the Basque Country. In 2013, countries with higher rates of recycling and composting were: Germany, with 65%; Slovenia, with 61%; Austria, with 59%; and Belgium, with 55%. We must reach the European Union's target for 2020, which results in the need to recycle 50% of the debris and divert only 35% from the landfill. We understand that incinerators are not a real solution to the problem of waste and pollution. Incineration does not destroy garbage, transforms it into polluting smokes and toxic ash, which will give to the ground, to water and to the atmosphere, and there is no other possible destination. We also pretend to be in a lust that the Government has, above all, with those hazardous industrial wastes, which are no longer used for anything and which are scattered throughout the territory. And I'm talking about, for example, asphalt materials, etc. And we must also comply with the 2016-2020 Framework State Waste Plan, which gave green light at the end of last year. We understand that education, participation, social awareness and research are very important; a lot of research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u136	After listening to the People's Party to set an example for the Valencian Community, I think they dare anything, Mr. Trenor. To speak of the defiance data of the Valencian Community is to be very brave and to speak of the Valencian Community being the People's Party is to be very brave, yes, sir. No, no, it wasn't Mr. Trenor, it was earlier, but I'm from the same group – I hope –. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I'm talking about the People's Party daring at anything. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Rajoy's cousins are also champions of the fight against climate change. How long has it been since Rajoy said the cousin of the University of Seville? Not long ago. But, well, they go with delayed effects. Four years, yeah. [[Murmurs.]] Environmental policy. Well, there's no comprehensive policy against climate change in the Galician Union; there's no policy, there's not even a plan. But there's also no coordination or an integral vision of all the advisories about this problem, which has no other way of solving if it's not with that integral vision. And then we don't face the real problems and the main problems that cause the emission of greenhouse gases. How can we fight against climate change if there are no concrete measures for the main causes of greenhouse gas emissions – which represent two thirds of emissions and which are industries, thermals, an intensive industry in electricity consumption and road transport? How can you say that you have a plan for the fight against climate change if there is no measure, no plan, regarding these two issues and if you come here to promise even though your wish is that any Welshman is less than ten minutes away from a high-capacity track? It's just that this speech is not compatible with a speech designed to reduce greenhouse gases, because road mobility represents more than 30% of emissions. So you can't say one thing or another, you can't say that you're in favour of reducing greenhouse gases and refusing to encourage the proximity train or the train that connects the cities in Galicia. And we have to say and we have to have some plan about thermals, which are also one of the main causes of pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. You're not; you're, once again, makeup. Ace and Sogama. Well, from Ence, what can I say it hadn't been said? A government in function lets us mortgage Pontevedra's stream for the next sixty years to favor some friends, and also lets us mortgage this country's forest model for the next few years. By repeating it, you think Sogama will end up becoming an example of good management, and it's a lie, it's an example of good business for Natural Gas, as I have many times said. The great beneficiary of the Sogama model is Natural Gas. Now, policies of comarcallization, of treatment from waste and of compliance even with the very own Greek plan, very few. As far as environmental policies are concerned, there is no more to see the evolution of budgets since Mr Feijóo arrived to know what interest they have in environmental policy, or the execution of their own budgets – they say – or the lack of effective policies for reducing energy dependence – which remains one of the major concerns that should move us for the next few years. And finally also the absence of effective policies for environmental protection figures. We are going to support the initiative, although there are a few details that we do not agree with about Sogama. We share the global philosophy of the initiative, which is that we have to pay attention to environmental policies and that we have to grab the bull by the horns, because one of the main crises facing this world and this country is the environmental crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u137	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Author group of the motion, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u138	Thank you, President. The first thing I want to do is thank the Joint Group and the AGE Group for their support for our motion. With regard to the other two amendments, with regard to the one tabled by the BNG, we are going to accept the vote by points because we cannot accept their amendments. We understand that with regard to Ence, there is indeed an amendment. Our text is purely technical from a legal point of view. First, we understand that it is necessary to review the extension and then to overthrow it. Even though we actually share its derogation from Ence. And with regard to the suppression amendment, we do not share the model of Sogama that exists today, but we do understand that Sogama must be the last reduction to which Galicia's waste has to reach, after passing through the different forms of recycling and waste management, before its arrival in Sogama. But, in any case, if we are going to accept the vote by points raised by the BNG. The policy of the advisor when he went up the other day to this forum was to talk only about waste, saying that they had a great plan that contains, by the way, the projection, the plan, eight compost plants; plan that ends in 2020, and we are in 2016 and there is not yet any. With regard to laughs, his policy is the policy of imaginary lines, placing ships in which the ripples are zone C and the barbor are zone B provisional, as in the Burgo creek, and now with a preliminary draft of a law of animal protection, which has not even entered into this House and which is therefore in public exhibition, which, of course, Mr. Trenor, I have read in its entirety and which I have on my computer probably long before you, which earlier did not devote to environmental issues, and which has not yet entered this House. So it's not even a project. And we'll see, and we'll see, if he comes in at some point and deals. My mother has a sentence, and in relation – my mother is a teacher, retired, but a teacher – with this amendment from the People's Party my mother would say the following, which was what she told her students: I don't believe in pregnant birds. So we don't believe in this amendment, either, that it doesn't stop being "let's go on," "let's face it," "let's keep doing everything we're not doing." That's your amendment which, of course, we reject. Pregnant birds, not anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P. motion. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of care, information, protection and defence of orphans as a result of gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u140	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate it has the floor to Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u141	Good morning to all and to all. Thank you very much, President. I begin this motion by requesting the House's understanding of the extensive part of the resolution on the protection of minors orphans because of the murder of their mothers by their partner, who in many cases is the father of minors himself the killer who leaves them orphaned. The remaining initiatives are very limited and the issue seems to me to be of paramount importance. Gender violence has very deep roots in Spanish society. Legal recognition as victims of minors living in the home where gender violence occurs is a breakthrough, but it's not enough as long as there are mentalities that don't change. The recently approved Victim's Statute, whose text was to strengthen the protection of minors victims of gender-based violence, does not have an economic memory. Without public investment it is not possible to educate equally in public school, nor to train the agents who are in contact with this reality about the specificities of the profiles of the victim and the aggressors. Nor to budget social and economic aid, nor to give stability and continuity to the resources of alienation and psychological support that the victims need. While there are those who question that this investment had to come in the form of a state pact, they continue to die murdered women and continue to increase the number of orphans for this reason. Of the initiatives that have been presented and dealt with in this Parliament on gender-based violence, she does not recall any of the most vulnerable people in this gang, the minors who are orphaned and left out when violence results in their mother's death, and whose attention, after the trauma suffered, must involve all public administrations in a coordinated manner. That's why the first of the points of this motion calls for the creation of a specialized roaming unit that caters to these minors and their families, without having to travel through half the province ahead to be cared for and informed. A unit that deals with all the procedures that will have to be dealt with and which manages from specialized psychological care to the judiciary, and even administrative to the most common subjects, such as the rates of waste, light, water, the usual housing where the murdered mother lived, for example, of the many procedures that they will have to carry out. I don't understand that administrations are bouncing skills among themselves or creating a lack of them, because that only increases the situation of unemployment among these minors. They are in situations like these where administrations must be at the level, that is, at the service of people, preventing them from going from place to place trying to solve complex bureaucratic matters at such dramatic times. Another thing, in my view, would be to continue to resort to violence against them, in this case by different administrations and institutions, and we must all seek and provide solutions without excuses. I agree with what Mr. Counsellor told us in the interpellation of the full past, that legal recognition as victims of the and the minors living in violent homes is a breakthrough, but it's not enough. Now that there is psychological care and assistance for minors, it should be strengthened and maintained over time until restoration, even if it lasts its entire life, as well as caring for the dead woman's family, the mother's family. It is also imperative that administrative proceedings and judicial or registrar proceedings have a guarantee of speed, which does not go beyond the drama and enables page passage as soon as possible. The slowness of the proceedings, including those of the granting of the guard, causes – on rare occasions – minors should remain in protection centres despite having a familiar environment that can protect them. Another concern is the economic issue of minors. It is being denounced by families or welcoming persons that the accounts of ownership shared by the murdered mother and the murderer are used by the latter to pay the costs of the trial and personal expenses, to the detriment of the youngest orphan who is found without being able to do anything with which the accounts are emptied by the killer. Blocking these accounts or including them in the file under legal protection could immediately prevent this injustice. It's also terribly unfair that the killer may be entitled to a widower's pension. It is suggested that the same should be maintained, but not for the murderer, but for the minors who leave orphans, who would be complementary to the poor orphanage pension to which they are entitled. On the other hand, in order to make the administrative procedures less severe, one is going to implement exemption in quotas, taxes and taxes that record inheritance procedures, title changes, etc., so as not to decapitalize minors who will have to support themselves from very new ones. To count on specific tax aid and benefits, to make it the likeness of treatment that orphans and orphans receive of terrorism, because it is not a matter of justice, is that it would be the fastest and most effective, since what is now happening is that these children and children, these too teenagers, are in their luck, separated by the state, with an inordinate amount of bureaucratic requirements generated by the State itself, and that they are of difficult assumption for an adult, the more for a minor and their family environment, who try to overcome a dreadfully traumatic fact that they will drag into the rest of their lives. One of the amendments incorporated by the Children's and Adolescents Act was to confirm that minors could receive a full orphan's pension. But it remains unsolved that this can be collected immediately by adults who take over the custody and custody of the minor. I will also speak of another worrying ejacism that denounces the people concerned about psychological reports and forensic expertise. They are affixed and prepared as mere procedures, forcing families to cost and bring other privates to court, since the contributions do not usually be rigorous or irrelevant in proceedings. So far I am referring to proposals for action or measures to mitigate and improve the care of minors since we have not been able as a society or as an administration to protect their mother's life. But the initiative, in the resolution, also includes others of a preventive nature to try to prevent girls and children from also being victims of ill-treatment and taking unnecessary risks by staying by the father's side or visits, contained in points 10, 11 and 12, where they try to prevent batterers from having the opportunity to continue to practice violence against these minors, and even to protect their lives. The Observatory against Domestic Violence is awaiting publication of the data in the last quarter, but if we analyze the data of the first three months of the year 2015, pay attention!, just over 3% of the civil protection measures was to suspend the visit regime. The suspension of guard and custody was given in 7.1% of the cases, while the country's power reached only 0.5%. A very similar percentage, 0.7%, corresponds to minor protection measures to avoid danger or prejudice. In all cases, it highlights the low percentage of measures dictated as precautionary. It would be necessary for legal operators to get rid of the beliefs that prevent them from conceiving that the subject who mistreats their partner or former couple is automatically a good father for stamping, and that custody or visits with this father is for the benefit of the child's interest. But it wouldn't be necessary if the law itself contemplated as a primary sanction, and not an accessory, leaving it to the judges and judges, the loss of custody of sons and daughters in case they were convicted of gender violence. One of the measures proposed in the resolution. –Finished, President.– Until the Children and Adolescents Act was passed, the status of a victim of gender-based violence of the daughters and the children of the woman depended on whether or not they had witnessed the assaults. From now on, it must always be made a statement to them when they are identified as a victim of the reported situation, whether they have been or not witnessed. So the judges should already be speaking about precautionary measures that can guarantee the safety, integrity and recovery of the child, especially when the abuse results in the mother's death. As a matter of fact, carrying out a regular follow-up on the evolution of each case, but civil protection measures must begin to reflect this legal advance. Half a hundred children and children were orphaned by the murder of their mother by the couple. In my view, a single victim would be enough for the legislative bodies to take letters in the matter. It's not worth the counseling's argument that some of the demands and measures contained in this motion are the competences of the State. The autonomous communities have their own powers and, if not, the Government of Spain may be urged to comply with them and to make legislative changes that are considered relevant in this House. As I said before, this must be the competence of all administrations in a coordinated manner, to avoid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u142	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u143	...exercise institutional violence against these minors and their surroundings. We're talking about minors, orphans because of something as terrible as the mother's murder. A drama of this magnitude must be considered as very important for lawmakers and lawmakers, as well as for the whole society in general. That's why I ask your attention to this motion, as well as your approval as soon as possible. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u144	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u145	Thank you, President. For if this debate is important in the plenary, because minors and minors are usually left out of the big debates and, in any case, with no merit. And after a decade of the Gender Violence Act we had to reach until now, and we had to wait for that amendment to the Children and Adolescents Act, without the minors and minors being stipulated and contemplated as victims of gender violence indirectly. Not only was it known by the public authorities the risk to these and these minors, but it was evident in various appearances, even at the meetings of the Equality Commission of this Parliament itself, the circumstances in which these children and children can live. There are fewer victims who suffer physical, verbal, psychological assaults, and even minors who are murdered and murdered by their parents or mother's couples, without these being the victims of gender-based violence. A regular debate that we have on occasion when data on annual reports are provided. But besides, there are others and others who are probably not directly assaulted, but who are indirectly assaulted, because when a mother is abused, assaulted or harassed, they are also these children assaulted and seen. It's impossible to get rid of this gender-based violence, that violence suffered by the woman, by her children and daughters. This indicates precisely a European directive, 12/29, which already mentioned that minors and minors are victims from the moment their mothers are. So, in general, all children are without exclusion victims of gender-based violence also in cases where mothers are. And what we're talking about already on this initiative is the extreme situation, an extreme situation within gender-based violence, in which besides these children and children are orphaned because these couples of their mothers, in this case, have murdered these mothers. It is in this incomprehensible framework that even with all the literature we have, with all the directives, all the standards and all the studies we have, and the evidence that it is probably not necessary to study so much, if it continues without removing custody or visits to batterers as just indicated. Something fails, there's something important that fails when we're keeping this circumstance today. The Galician Union even lacks protocols on any child abuse, but in particular gender-based violence. And the collectives who defend children have denounced on some occasions that there are even cases where in the face of an emergency, at the time when they meet their mother, these minors may be circumstantially in charge of the aggressor, which is a very serious situation. It's awesome. It sounds like a lie, but it happens. Just as the rights of children and children are not respected when they are taken – for example, they have also denounced it in the commission and on many other occasions – statements of these situations of violence, for, on many occasions also, lack of human and material means, which therefore affect the revitalization of these children. We have sometimes denounced and debated the conditions of the Imelga and also the conditions in which the statements are made, as well as the need to review precisely the use of the family meeting points. Finally, there's practically everything left to be done about caring for minors in gender-based violence. And probably the framework of the initiative is of the toughest situations – as I said – of the toughest. It is therefore essential that they be properly cared for and attended, training of professionals and professionals, enough professionals, because right now we do not have them. We agree with the need for psychological care, which is at this moment virtually neglected in general, and we talk about it even for women, who depended solely on that agreement with the College of Psychologists and Psychologists. I'm not going to go into every point independently, because I wouldn't be allowed time either, but we actually agree with the need for evaluation to be as soon as possible, that administrative procedures should also be as soon as possible and that the exposure of minors and minors should be minimized. And so children and children must have secured those basic rights, that access to resources from their mother, that access to housing and inheritance. In short, it's about imposing the upper right of the minor and the minor on the rest of the rules or observances. And we say that what we already think is incredible – and we agree with the proponent – is that in today's day, abusers or murderers may have a regime of visits in some cases. So we're going to support this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u147	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we want to bless the Joint Group, and in particular Mrs Iglesias, by this initiative, by this motion, because, in general, minors and minors are the ones we can call " invisible victims of gender violence". That's what they've been doing in policy development until 2015, where laws change. And, in fact, in many of the debates we have had in this Chamber about gender violence, and even in the Equality Commission itself, which has been developing its work for two years now, because we have expressed this: our difficulty in the first moments of drafting laws against violence against boys to include children as direct victims and visible victims. In fact, if we analyze the latest macroeconomic survey of gender-based violence in 2015, data give a lot to think about: nearly 3% of the Spanish state's minors live in homes where some kind of violence is experienced. Half the homes where a woman suffers from violence, 52.2 per cent live smaller children and children, and 63.6 per cent – according to this survey – say women that children and girls directly witnessed episodes of violence, both physical and verbal. Therefore, exposure to such violence as real victims, as daily victims, is more than clear. That's why the forgetfulness that existed so much in the regulations, and that many times they were being supplanted through protocols, or how it happens, for example, in the area of Galicia with psychological treatment, or the same agreement that is held for women who suffer from gender-based violence, is made extensible to and to minors. But it is true, as it appears gathered in the motion itself, that the needs of the children and the children are different, that they may need more attention and more space over time, and that they do not have to limit themselves to ten sessions, which often simply extend to ten others, which should be coordinated by the educational centres. Well, although these kids – if it's true that we can see it in the data – immediately undergo a change in school, the treatment after that is that there are no protocols of these schools, there is no follow-up to professionals, basically psychology. And in other autonomous communities there are specific protocols for cases of minors and, for example, they do not exist in Galicia. If we see the victims also of gender-based violence, we can say that they are already collected by the Ministry of Health, because in 2015 there were four, in 2014 and in 2013 six. So the magnitude of the problem is fundamental. And the truth is that forgetting should make us reflect on everyone and all because they haven't been included in all treatments since the beginning. I believe that there – and we have discussed it on repeated occasions – was a very big approach to the victims being women, and of important pressure groups where they wanted above all to convey that ideology that could be abusive but good father. I think recently that's absolutely in question, it's unmasked that it doesn't happen. And from there we should also see how important regulatory changes have occurred, but also important changes from a judicial point of view to the latest rulings of the Supreme Court, where it clearly already recovers the suspension of the visit regime, the suspension of the country's authority, the suspension of custody and custody. They are very important steps forward that, as we see in the motion, we hope that they will be strengthened, because, of course, even if the figures are still very low, if we see a history, both in 2014 and in 2015, both in the suspension of the visit regime and in the country of power and in custody, there was a significant increase in that suspension. We hope that the necessary training in the field of justice and also in the social sphere will lead to the fact that more and more people are being kept in mind that it is really impossible to be a good father if he is a batterer. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will also support this initiative of the Joint Group, especially in view of the fact that this debate has a great deal to do with another one we have held in November with the Social Policy Adviser, who recently arrived at the task, and which also gave rise to a motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which was adopted on 1 December 2015 unanimously at the plenary session of this Parliament. It had to do with implementing a protocol of action between different administrations, aimed at minors and minors victims of all kinds of violence, including male violence. In addition, we were talking about prioritising precisely the best interests of the minor or the minor above all else, as well as specializing all the professionals who have to intervene in the various moments of the process of protection of abused minors and in the prevention and denunciation. It is true that this unanimous agreement, which was adopted – I insist – on 1 December 2015, has not yet been developed by the Government of Galicia, as we were able to verify in Commission 5th there are few dates through a question we asked the Director of Family and Inclusion, but we want to continue to insist on the need to protocol the steps that must be taken by the different administrations, because we believe that it is the best guarantee that things will be done well. We have often received all those who work in this Parliament on social policy and on children's and children's issues of complaints from many associations of abused minors about real dantesque situations that occur in families and women victims of violence with the custody of their children and their children. We also see in the media how many of them are forced to flee with their sons and daughters to prevent abusive parents from ending their lives or using them as threat tools for mothers. We see it not only in the autonomous community of Galicia, but in other autonomous communities. And we see how these women have justice instead of protecting them and defending them and they are being pursued and convicted, and how there are children and children who are victims of masculine violence and children of women who are victims of masculine violence who are taken away from custody of their mother and given custody to their father, or who are even in many cases taken into custody with custody for their parents instead of custody for their mothers, who are the ones who actually visit them and try to look after them and be with them often. We have also often received complaints about how professionals who have to intervene in the complaints proceedings are little specialized in what has to do with child abuse and violence. And we see how the testimony given by minors and minors has to be repeated and, therefore, they lose an important part of the moment's freshness. On many occasions, in the end, the last witness, which is what judges and judges give him validity, is no longer a witness that reflects the reality of what has happened, but reflects a position that the minor or the minor adopts over time. Associations working in Galicia with abused minors have claimed and claimed from the Government of Galicia, primarily the Presidency Council, that in the courts where these types of issues are dealt with there are special, specific rooms, with appropriations such as the recording of the first interviews and personnel of forensics specializing in minors, to avoid, precisely, revitalizing the victims. I mean, that children have to give back a witness they gave at first and that for not being recorded soon surely when the witness is lent months later it is no longer useful for the good and the principle it was intended, which is that those who break the damage suffer the deserved punishment. It's kind of as simple as putting a camera on recording those interviews or putting one of those crystals in which the prosecutor and the judge may be on the other side to observe how that child and that girl gives the testimony, and avoids it – I insist – that revitalization by making it declare on more than one occasion about a damage that is important to him. There are very few dates when we saw the Councillor announce in the media that judges of Vigo de Familia and Minors, who were collapsed, of more professional legal medicine, of forensics, would be provided. We claimed then, and we continue to complain today, and that is why our vote in favour of this initiative, that these people working with minors have to have a specific training, both for the gathering of the witness and for the treatment of minors and minors. And that's not just the step through a pediatrician, but there has to be also in many cases gynecologists or gynecologists but specialized – I insist – in child abuse, which is missing to this day. So for this reason, and since in their day the other opposition groups, and also the government-supported group, supported the motion that the Socialist Group brought to this House, and hoping that in this case the implementation would be a little more agile, because the other group has been in six months where almost nothing has yet been done, we will give our vote in favour of this motion by Mrs Churches. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u150	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning. Although, by the time it is, we could almost say good afternoon to Members and Members. Today, Mrs Iglesias, you bring here a motion to debate with 12 points – you have already made the reference to which it was very wide – in which you raise questions that are of State competence, others that are better competition from the Council of Galicia and others even of municipal competence. As for the issues raised in the various points of the initiative, of legislative amendment, which refer to the loss of the right to widower's pension, suspension of the right to visit the aggressor, guardianship, etc., which are, as you know, the competence of the State, to say that organic law 8/2015, amending the system of protection for children and adolescents, as well as Law 26/2015, which also introduces these changes in the recast text of the General Social Security Act on pensions in cases of homicide offences, approved by this government of the State less than a year ago and which have passed to parliamentary procedure in Congress, without any doubt, the care and protection of children and daughters of women victims of gender violence, as well as minor others who are victims of other forms of violence. Being relevant, in this sense, the inclusion of children as victims of violence in article 1 of the Law of 2004, of measures of comprehensive protection against gender violence, giving greater visibility to the violence perpetrated against minors – as you know, this was envisaged by the law of Galicia – also extends the protection of minors by means of victim women, providing that, when there are minors under the power, protection or reception of a victim of gender violence, the actions of the public authorities will be directed to provide the necessary support to seek the child's stay with the victim, ensuring the safety, integrity and recovery of both juveniles and women victims through the periodic follow-up to their evolution, with the obligation also by the judges, to decide on the suspension of the power or custody, the suspension of the regime of visits and stay or communication with minors. To also say that, as far as agility is concerned, these judicial proceedings are of preferential treatment, urgent treatment, in all kinds of cases, and that the Administration may also suspend the widow's pension allowance, as well as the orphan's pension which may correspond to the children, when there are indications that they are the result of a crime of murder. And in order to improve the economic situation of orphans as well, this allowance is made available for children and children under the suspended widow's pension. The Administration may also review the widow's pensions granted to those convicted in a firm sentence for a crime of murder, such as the cases of women killed by male violence. Therefore, these issues that you raise – and without a doubt we share – are collected in the recently approved legislation by the Government of the State. And we also share, Mrs Iglesias, that orders for removal from gender-based violence are extended to minors victims of violence. And as for those measures – because I don't have much time – concerning the Galician Union, say that it has material means and multidisciplinary teams of psychologists, teachers, workers and social educators, who are responsible for intervening when a risk of helplessness or deprotection is detected, managing minors – as you know – the most suitable programs to deal with situations. And, above all, those actions and programs are strictly, professionally and proficiently administered in judicial proceedings; so they are doing – as you know – the psychosocial teams and the staff of the Imelga. That is, when a minor becomes blind as a result of gender-based violence, all the economic and psychological measures and all the other measures necessary to address the victims of violence are linked. As I have very little time left to say, moreover, that I would like to stress that, as regards the portfolio of social services of family, childhood and adolescence, it has a specific support service for families – so said the counselor – with technical equipment of the child, information, permanent counselling, unified register of child abuse, as well as family reception services and other support programs. Finally, Mr President, to say that as the victims of violence, I believe that a priority for all Members and Members, we share most of the points that you put in the resolution of the motion – I have spoken to you before – and we want to reach an agreement in order to support a large part of those points. We are going to ask, if you think it is, the voting by points, and in this case we would be willing to support 8 of the 12 points I raise in your motion, if I may allow the President a second time to appoint them. We would be prepared to adopt point 2, point 3, point 6, point 7, point 9, point 10, point 11, and point 12. In relation to others, let's say that these are also matters of other administrations. I believe that we are making an important effort here, and we would like Mrs Iglesias to accept the request that we make to her, by points, to adopt these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Motion author group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u153	Thank you, President. With regard to the support of the BNG, the Socialist Party and the AGE, she is grateful for the support of this motion of such importance. With regard to the People's Party, I remind the honourable Member of the People's Party that almost all measures, except for 10, 11 and 12, refer to orphans. It's a situation, Madam, of emergency. It's an urgent situation. It's a situation that therefore requires immediate and different measures and actions. We're talking about minors who lost their mother. You always talk to me about this, and the other day the Counsellor has argued that they are not the competences of the Galician Union. I am a novelist on this issue of institutional policy, but I know that I am in a legislative body, I know that since this legislative body, the central government can be urged. I know that since this legislative body you've changed laws; that tells me, despite my inexperience. Allow me, Madam, to look at the points that you want to support and which you do not want to support, because here is one of those that you reject, which I believe is fundamental. The 8, which you may not support, is: "To carry out the appropriate amendments to the laws, or to urge the amendments to those to which they correspond, to avoid the settlement of the accounts of shared ownership by the aggressor, or his family, before the length of the judicial proceedings." I think this point is very important. It seems bloody to me that a murderer has the money that a woman murdered by him can leave to protect orphans and orphans. That's what I have to study. I have to consult him and study him. I also consider it very important that you will refuse, which is the first. You say that in Galicia you have protective measures for the underage, but here we are talking about a murder case, an orphanage case. Fortunately or unfortunately, cases are not many, but only with one, this specialized roaming unit is indispensable. The protection that the State has to provide to this person who remains completely unprotected and completely to the arbitrate of the State – the protective state had to be – also seems of great importance to me. Therefore, allow me, Madam, to think about it, and to see if we can reach a consensus. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u154	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u155	Let's restart the session. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the social protection of unemployed workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u156	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u157	Very late to everyone you are, in this atmosphere of spectacular expectation at the initiative of a fundamental theme. I keep thinking it's for the whole House, not for anyone, in case the president tells me something. In 2011 the People's Party presented itself to the elections, promising, as always, those issues that it knows it will not take place. One of his promises was to activate the economy, and the line followed, he promised 3.5 million jobs in the state as a whole. So much so that the People's Party model is so predictable, that today or even yesterday Mr Feijóo, also at the gates of electoral, state and Greek periods, once again promised 50,000 jobs in industry in Galicia. And besides, I was saying directly in Industry 4.0, that industry that our ineffable industrial advisor came here to propose but that we still don't know exactly what it represents, beyond a test industry, because we've ever said that the zero point is always the failed version of any program. These 50,000 jobs have, of course, a very different reality in the current situation because in the EPA of the last quarter there is a data that, at least, is absolutely devastating, and that in the last quarter, in this country, 1,400 jobs have been eliminated in the industry. So the way to get those 50,000 jobs committed by Mr. Feijóo may be throughout the 21st century, because otherwise the figures are far from that reality. In fact, what that job creation meant was the creation of precarious employment, the division of the labour market. And above all, the reactivation of the economy, which was behind it, was that new economy of inequality, where a few people and collectives -- in this case the big industries -- were enriching themselves with what was stolen from the popular classes. Moreover, this reactivation of the economy comes from the hands of creation and the functioning of the People's Party of the poor new worker. That worker who, despite having a job, is unable to maintain a minimum dignity of life. And that's why more than 60% of the workers in this country earn less than 645 euros a month, which is absolutely insufficient. Given, therefore, that the People's Party was unable not only to do what it had promised with regard to job creation, but rather to keep the job we had, and not even was able to create quality jobs, but on the contrary, it seems that what the People's Party would have to do is comply with the Constitution and make the social protection of those who were expelled from the labour market not because of their shortcomings, but because of an absolutely brutal and austeric economic policy which led forward to the People's Party. It is so much so that the leaders of the People's Party and the minister yesterday said that "we spent four peoples with austerity." Of course they went through austerity, but it was directed only to a part of this country's collective of citizens, especially those who lost their jobs. And this is how they failed to comply with the Constitution, which the People's Party has eliminated from public spending since 2009, EUR 25,000 million devoted to protecting the unemployed, which with the figure of unemployed in recent years would have to become EUR 45,000 million. We are talking about the fact that the People's Party has eliminated EUR 45,000 million from all and all for unemployment when, for example, the budget for the Union is EUR 10 billion, which gives an image of the magnitude of the breakdown, of the robbery, which has made the People's Party pay to the workers who are left unemployed. That reality has a given that today is tremendously harmful and absolutely brutal, and that is that only 26% of the workers who are unemployed in this country receive some kind of benefit, or 26%! We're talking about a fact that's absolutely brutal, and as it's indecent, the People's Party and the Government are going around, they're going to put on another data that has to do with the coverage figure, but that's an absolutely makeup figure. One coverage figure at 52% conceals that only 1 in every 4 unemployed workers receives some kind of benefit. And how do they hide, makeup and twist that number? Well, that's easy. When calculating the number of paid unemployed, they remove from the unemployed account all unemployed who are not registered and all unemployed who have not had a previously paid job. So they're suddenly eliminating about 800,000 unemployed from the country's whole. But when you count those who receive a benefit, they count, for example, those who have a part-time ERA – and therefore they are working and receiving a benefit – those who are underprivileged, or those who have suspended their benefit from a situation of temporary disability or directly being included in a training course. That makes the coverage figure look like 52%, but reality shows that only 1 in 4 unemployed workers has a benefit. This figure is absolutely indecent, and what proves is the unwillingness of the People's Party to put on the alternative table to meet those who need it most. Some alternatives that, as we all know, in the face of direct competition from the State, had to be put on the table by the State, but the State, which does not, obliges many communities to assume that competence. So, many communities that are unable to meet that Leonine deficit figure, they do because they have alternative mechanisms to care for their unemployed. Of course, Galicia is capable of complying because it has decided not to compensate for the lack of expenditure and investment of unemployment protection that the State has stopped doing. If we recovered the amount corresponding to Galicia from these 45,000 million euros, we would be talking about today, with only those amounts, we could take over 100 percent of our unemployed. When we talk about unemployment benefits, the PP always agrees with it, that the only protection policy is the generation of employment. But if we look at the type of job that is created and what is the employment situation, we also show that it is false, that the People's Party in Galicia has destroyed jobs; that today in Galicia there are 90,000 jobs less than when Mr Feijóo started. That doesn't take into account the number of hours worked. Just with data from the IGE today, it can be demonstrated that, when the People's Party arrived in the Government, in Galicia, there were 1,027,000 members of Social Security, and today there are only 937,000. We're talking about 10% of Mr. Feijóo's job destruction since he took over. And not only does it destroy jobs, but it also has to talk about what kind of job is being done in this country. I think there's a data that's absolutely disappointing, that's that data that tells us that every month in this country is signed between 2,000 and 3,000 jobs for just a day. We are therefore talking about precariousness and putting on the table an absolutely unsatisfactory model of employment, which condemns our working class to an absolutely desperate situation. We should also talk about the situation of self-employed people, who in many cases do not add to unemployment figures because they maintain their status as self-employed because they know that it is impossible – despite the new conditions of access to unemployment for self-employed people – to access these conditions. In the state as a whole, only 15% of the people who apply for unemployment for self-employed people receive it. So in many cases they're holding their autonomous contribution because they know that, out of it, there's a tremendously complex chasm. We today, in our motion, put questions on the table that seem absolutely obvious and necessary. First, you have to return to the working class in this unemployed country, which has been stolen from you: 45,000 million euros. It's good that we rescue the bank with public money and then distribute multi-millionaire profits, as it's happened this past year. That the bank rescued with money from everyone is distributing multi-millionaire dividends to their shareholders, while the unemployed in this country – who suffer from harassment and the most regrettable situation on the part of that bank, who throws them out of their homes and puts them under Leonine conditions – ceases to receive 45,000 million euros. We told the State the need to recover those amounts. It also repeals cuts in unemployment benefits, because that cut of 45,000 million euros has to do with first, which has been complicated by the conditions of access, but also by the amounts. Thus, for the unemployed over three months, 10% of the benefit was reduced, the peaks were reduced, and contributions to Social Security and the pension fund for the unemployed were also reduced. Unemployment contributions were also reduced by the People's Party in a very important way. In view of this reality, what we say is that what this country has to do is to supplement the benefits of a kind of assistance to those who are unable to maintain a decent standard of living with the absence of unemployment benefits. Finally, a question that we believe is also very important, and that has to do with the inaction of the Labour Inspectorate on this subject, is that it must be pursued so that the 17,000 jobs in this country are hidden from irregular activity. Those extra hours that are not charged or those jobs that are done, but are not charged, and that have to do with a reality: that in this country they work for many more hours than they actually charge for fear of dismissal. The labour reform and the pressure of companies and industries on the workforce as a whole has, today, a consequence, and is that workers are being forced to accept very regrettable and very painful working conditions, and in many cases to extend their working days without receiving any extra amount. By simply pressing to avoid such excesses of the day, 17,000 jobs would be created in Galicia every day. These are absolutely simple initiatives to achieve, which all they say is that they are returned to the unemployed what was stolen from them. We therefore hope that they will have the support, at least, of this House's opposition, because we know that the goal of the People's Party was that: remove it from the pockets of the unemployed workers to hand it over to the great multinationals, and, as otherwise, to the bank favored by this crisis. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u158	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u159	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all we're here now. I keep insisting, there are those who have heavy digestions. You'll have to talk to the cafeteria and put on a menu of better digestion, because, of course, as long as the plenary starts in the afternoon, it feels really bad. The Public Employment Service paid unemployment benefits in Galicia last year €1.091.5 million, which means €248.2 million less than in 2014; a cut of 18.54%. In December, only 49.2% of people unemployed in Galicia received some benefits. They are less and less people who receive contributions. In December, for example, of the 112,624 unemployed people in Greece who paid some wages, only 47,456 received one type of contribution. That is, only 49.2% of the unemployed received a benefit in December, and of these, only 42% received a contribution. The rest, 50.8 % of the unemployed, or they received no income or benefits of a type of assistance, which is around EUR 400. But the number of unemployed people receiving some kind of benefit continues to decrease. Last April, only 46.9% of the unemployed entered some kind of help into Galicia, the lowest rate since unemployment. But besides lowering the number of perceivers, the average amount of these benefits also fell by 4%. In July 2012, the amount of benefits increased from 60% of the regulatory base from the seventh month to 50%. In September 2013, the Banco de España published in its economic bulletin the first conclusions on labour reform in 2012, indicating that it is in the downward trend of wages where the influence of reform is most noted: in the collapse of dismissal, more negotiator power for loans against trade union representation and measures of internal flexibility. I mean, the Banco de España was already ahead of what the minister in function Margallo recognizes, that four towns have passed with austerity, and essentially with the working class. The Banco de España admits that the 2012 labour reform committed by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, served primarily to make it easier for wages to lose their purchasing value, or even lower, with the excuse that this measure would improve the hiring of labour by companies. However, experts from the Banco de España admit that jobs continue to be destroyed despite the continued decline in wages; there is no impact of reform in promoting indefinite recruitment. So this great goal of the People's Party's labour reform, which was to make work precarious to create many jobs, was not useful; the work was precarious; but they were still destroying jobs. Temporality and precariousness are absent elements in the discourse of the Government, both of the State and of the Greek, who seek to avoid the problem by manipulating language. Undefined contract of support for entrepreneurs; i.e., misery for those workers and workers who don't find work. Grants to innovative business projects; that is, nothing. Employment opportunities, foreign training, i.e. immigration. A labour reform that aims to create jobs by encouraging jobs without rights. Today precariousness is no longer a feature of temporary contracts, but it has extended to indefinite contracts. Far from generating employment, the extension of working precariousness in all its manifestations leads to greater labour deficiency, a constant reduction in wages and labour rights, the lower access to training, the almost impossible to obtain union protection and collective representation against the company. Precautionary work, economic layoffs, long-term unemployment, lack of benefits, emigration, labour poverty. That's the stage the People's Party leaves in the world of work. We will support this motion, but we are very afraid that the People's Party will again condemn the working class to poverty and lack of rights. The greatest aggression in history in the working class led the People's Party in 2012, destroying all the rights won by the working class, fought, rights that cost lives, which cost prisons and a lot of repression. You condemned the working class to the life you have now, to be workers and poor workers. We therefore believe that they will vote against this motion because the labour policy of the People's Party portrays them. All your interests are subsidising companies; subsidising the hiring of companies not to create quality jobs, not to create stable jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u161	...but to keep them creating precarious jobs and temporary jobs in conditions that Joina is the first to set an example of contracts that make garbage contracts, indecent for any administration. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u163	Good afternoon to all and to all. In fact, we're talking again about the unemployment situation in our country, a situation of extreme gravity. Indeed, as the two people who preceded me in the use of the word have already referred to, reference must be made to what is right now that a representative of the Government of the State comes with that four villages, four villages, with that of the cuts. It looks nice for a headline, and it seems like it's kind of self-criticism, but if it's not accompanied by any rectification measure, it's just going to give it, so it looks like there's some people in the People's Party who are already sorry for the fact. But the reality is that the gravity of the labour market scenario in Galicia remains maximum. The two main problems that we continue to have in our country are still the highest level of unemployment and emigration, which are two structural problems, not a biblical curse, but structural problems that have much to do with the role that the European Union and the Spanish State have assigned to Galicia: a role of marginal periphery and a colonial role in terms of power centres. In this negative context, successive labour reforms, pension reforms, unemployment benefits, the dynamisation of collective bargaining, cuts and privatization of public services have only made this situation worse. The practical whole of the labour reforms undertaken in the last thirty years, both by the Socialist Party and by the People's Party, always met the same criteria: that of having a labour market conducive to the accumulation of capital by the powerful and precariousness, by flexibility, which is what they call that infamous labour market situation for the working class. Contract formulas have been simplified, temporality has been facilitated and dismissal has been broken to give greater power to that employer and to fix those working conditions that have enabled them to reach this situation. In view of this global work situation, we find that we have unemployment rates at this point still inconceivable under the terms of the Galician Nationalist Block. At these unemployment rates of 228,000 people, according to registered persons, obviously are not the people who have retired, the immigrants, who have returned to their countries, who have studied and are no longer registered, those who emigrated, those who give up... and in spite of all those who are not there, of all those people who have been unemployed, who have already completed their benefits, and who therefore do not have any virtuality, no compensation, to be registered in the offices of public employment services; those who have no rights because they have had unrighted employment contracts, as are the vast majority of contracts with young people and young people, slavery contracts such as those contracts in practice, those bags that do not generate any kind of right and therefore are also not registered in the employment services; however, those figures remain indecentive. In addition, we have to add that, of the unemployed people – as it has already been said – they are less and less those who charge some type of contribution and are more and more those who charge subsidies, but as a whole we find that, for the first time since there are recorded data, since they record data, despite the traps that reach that figure of the persons who receive benefit, because to calculate the averages are neither the unregistered nor the ones who collect some type of benefit, despite all this, for the first time they are below 50% registered persons who do not charge any benefits; in particular 46.9%, and each time they receive less benefits. Why are there less and also less benefits? Because they lowered unemployment and because they increased the conditions to collect some kind of benefit. That is why we support this initiative because we have already argued on numerous occasions that labour reforms need to be repealed, which the only thing they have contributed to is to have this decent labour market, and because they have also led to this situation that, with more people in unemployment, they receive less benefits and for less time. It seems to us that, in addition to starting with a small rectification of words, of course, the People's Party will have to do what it will have to do is correct in fact, and that correction must begin by supporting initiatives such as those we have been demanding in this Parliament, by eliminating the legislative measures that soon provide tools for reaching this labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. We will support this initiative. We consider and share that, if all the data in this country says that the number of poor workers is increasing, we would talk about the rights generated by those unemployed people that the policies of the People's Party over these years have decided to despise and abandon and not even account. Already in the budgets of the Union, and also in the budgets of the State for 2016, they gave their backs to the unemployed and workers in this country, and proof of that is the reduction in the share of unemployment benefits. The 50-year-olds were going to receive a report with their future public pension, and the People's Party's Executive vetoed it to prevent them from getting to know the benefits. Seven out of ten unemployed have no public support in this country, while the government is saying we're prioritizing social spending. We haven't seen that renewal for a long time, for that motion of censure to itself of the Government of Beijóo itself, giving a complete change and saying that all this would change... but things are still stagnant, budgets are still what they were and, of course, the workers and the unemployed in this country have no more rights or opportunities to have better conditions to live. There is no effective response on the part of the People's Party, only advertising and propaganda; and in the remaining months, advertising and propaganda will rise to the greatest power. So just explanations in many respects not only ineffective, but useless, and of course, what's really on the table is budgeting less budgeting, less benefits, not budgeting, and that's the reality of the unemployed in this country. The predictions of the People's Party's Government were to lower the unemployment rate to 20.1%, but the data are the ones on the table, and the lies of the People's Party's Government are clear. Mr Feijóo's six years of government has left us with an increase in unemployment of 51%; the ratio between the unemployed population and the active population, i.e. the unemployment rate, has increased to almost 59%. The active population falls into five points; the number of busy people is reduced by about 13%; the experience in previous year's balance sheets verifies the Government of the People's Party's Errors. We don't know if it's wrong or intentional, but in any case, both aspects would be at the expense of the Greeks and the Greeks. They've been in government for seven years, delivering promises, offering unreal data, and the result is a miserable management, in which the most outstanding in the Employment Council were those frauds in the training courses. Nearly 500,000 people went through these courses and were beneficiaries or object of employment policies in Galicia. But the balance in that period is that it has increased unemployment in total terms since the People's Party governs; it has diminished the occupied population; wage perceptions are lower and a galloping process of precariousness has been carried out; youth has to leave Galicia to try to work and not even go through the INEM offices; social protection levels of the unemployed have likewise retreated in an alarming way. That is the real balance, that is the total failure, and the rest – I repeat –, advertising and propaganda; answers, none. The policy of this government consists of cuts in relation to active employment policies; repeating applications that are showing lack of effectiveness; showing important management failure. In employment promotion programmes and labour market institutions, cuts are enormous, as the budget shares approved in the last six years indicate. And the situation of long-term unemployed is especially sensitive in this respect. Unemployment benefits last a maximum of two years; most long-term unemployed are already unemployed and up to subsidies; for lack of work, the only positive reading of this data to the State is that the reduction of unemployed persons entitled to benefit, and the increase in those who have already exhausted them, reduces the social security expenditure on unemployment benefits and subsidies. We could still talk about employment policies, or unemployment policies, of the People's Party, but I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u167	...the data speaks for themselves. Budgets, which I always say are the real government program of a party, are above the table and, above all, sit on the street. So we will support, as I said at the outset, this initiative. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Mr. Fajardo, he speaks of promises of the People's Party, of lies, of non-compliance, but I believe that the only one who promised full employment was not the People's Party, was the Socialist Party, and, far from fulfilling it, he generated more than three and a half million unemployed, Your Honor, don't confuse himself! It was left-wing policies that led to the closure of more than 200,000 companies and the destruction of three and a half million jobs. And so these policies, those on the left, those responsible for the difficult situation that all families are living in where a person has come to destroy his job. Once again, they call for the repeal of labour reform, when it is precisely this reform, along with the reform plan, the stability plan, put in place by the Government of the People's Party, which is reversing this situation. Policies that allow 57,000 Spaniards to work more than a year ago and that we are the largest growing country in Europe and that most jobs create. Since February 2013, 1.3 million jobs have been recovered. The drop in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, and job creation are a solid reality, as shown by the unseasonalized data. In April, the number of social security affiliates increased to 151,000. Full-time indefinite recruitment progresses at 21% in annual terms. The People's Party's main objective is job creation and therefore we are not going to vote in favour of derogating everything that works. And that employment reform does not say it, but it is stated by many reports, such as that of the Foundation for Applied Economic Studies last March, and even one of the months of April, of BBVA. And so they show both the EPA and the recorded data. According to EPA, there are 600,000 unemployed less since the beginning of this legislation in Galicia. We have a four-point unemployment rate below. We closed the first quarter of 2016 with 47,800 unemployed less, which means a 17.3% drop. They grow full-time jobs by 5.1% and drop part-time jobs by 6.2%. In addition, 15.5% of homes are lowered with all members on unemployment compared to 2015: 14,700 homes less, ladies. And if we refer to registered unemployment, we close the month of April with 16,600 unemployed less, which is a 6.79% drop. The membership grew at 1.50% compared to April 2015, but the unemployment recorded also decreased with respect to last month in the four provinces in all sectors, both in men and in women and in all stages of age. And for the third consecutive year, unemployment is reduced in April, and we've had thirty consecutive months of inter-annual download. Over the past few years more than EUR 100 billion has been devoted to the provision of unemployment and subsidies, with two years of recession and still not reaching the 2007 level of collection. Galicia's coverage rate, the March 2006 data, is 51%, we're the sixth largest coverage community. With regard to point 2 of social benefit measures, I want to tell you that the Government of Galicia is working to make our community a community that generates stable and quality jobs so that we can give every Welshman a chance to find a job, because the best social policy is the creation of stable and quality jobs. That is why EUR 445 million is allocated this year to job promotion. But we want to get out of the crisis by supporting the most vulnerable, because we don't want anyone to stay behind. That's why this government is working for all the people who are in this situation, and that's why it maintains a comprehensive support network for families who need it most. Between 2009 and 2014 Galicia was the community that most reduced population at risk of poverty, reducing five points at risk of poverty. The share of social inclusion is increased to EUR 86.5 million, the risk is increased to EUR 5 million, reaching EUR 52.7 million, an increase of 132%. 10.5% more resources have been allocated than in 2015, from which 14,000 people have benefited. With regard to point 3 of the irregular hour inspection, Mr. Fajardo, this is already being accomplished by the Galician Board since February 4, when it approved a plan, and not a programme, of labour inspection to strengthen the quality of employment and labour security; a plan with a specific axis to combat irregular employment, with about 13,000 visits to detect not only irregular hours, but also, but also, the shortcomings in senior social security, work of perceived incompatible or false autonomous benefits. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this government resolves and you revolt. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the motion's own group, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u171	It seems that at the congress this weekend of the People's Party, in addition to putting the blade as the future foundation of this country's political debate, they made the decision to say that some resolve and others revolve, it seems that this will be the people's mantra from here to the elections. And the truth is that my stomach was turned around with this intervention. My stomach has been turned around, because saying that in this country unemployment is no longer a problem and that you are doing everything you can to solve this situation, when the data are what they are, and the data are from the IGE itself... since you came to the Government of this country, 90,000 people have fewer jobs in this country, you will tell me where you get that data from 600,000 jobs more in Galicia. It's just that in Galicia a million people don't work anymore. For the first time in history, thanks to the People's Party, there are fewer than 1 million people affiliated with Social Security because of the austere policies of the People's Party. It is clear what your reference is. Its reference is not the EPA data, which shows that employment is destroyed here, but especially in the industry. Your reference is BBVA's report, precisely those banks you gave them the money you stole from the unemployed. The data is above the table: 45,000 million euros less since 2009 for unemployment benefits, 45,000 million!, which means that it is almost three years of budgeting for the Union, which means cutting unemployment benefits. And in the end, we're talking about those millions of cut-offs that went to clean those banks that then they do and divide multi-millionaire dividends among their shareholders. And what are you doing? Tell me your goal is to create a job. What kind of job? What is the reality of employment in this country? That 66% of workers who earn less than the minimum wage? Do you think a healthy and normal country can be allowed to cover 66% of its workers less than 600 euros a month gross? Can you tell me which family you can survive with less than 600 euros a month gross for the whole family environment? But the fact that you give me attention to families is certainly regrettable. They have, in your opinion, served 14,000 families. In this country we have 55,000 homes where all its members are unemployed. So there's a lot of work to do, and there's a chance to take care of these families. You don't want to. The data is very obvious. Why have many autonomous communities failed to meet the deficit? Because many autonomous communities have assumed responsibility for caring for their people with more difficulties. And this autonomous community didn't want it and it's not doing it, and that's why it's the champion of compliance with the deficit. You have a criterion, you pay attention to the interests of the Troika above the interests of the unemployed, who are, by the way, unemployed because of the austere policies of the People's Party, which have led many people to lose their jobs. The aim of the People's Party is to take them from the queue of unemployment to the queue of food eaters. We feel very much that the People's Party has the indecency to leave its unemployed in a certainly regrettable situation. That is why we hope you will have the opportunity at the next GNP to approve the AGE initiative, which goes along the same line. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u172	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. We therefore turn to the motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u173	We begin by voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of the environment. He has already stated that he did not accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego or of the People's Parliamentary Group, but that he accepted the vote by points requested by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. So I ask Mrs. Pontón if you can group some of the points, that's six points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u174	You just have to separate the last point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u175	Then we would vote first on the first five points and then on the last one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what Mrs Vilán has to decide. Having accepted the point-by-point vote, Mrs Pontón asked to vote on the first five points together, and the last point separately. Now the People's Party Member, Mr Trenor, asks, if you can vote separately, to separate point 5. The five or the four? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What point? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Or five? Do you agree to vote separately or point 5? I mean, take it to the Block and not to the PP. [[Refusal.]] All right, all right. [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm asking, I'm asking... of course, if it's for points, of course, if it's for points, it should be. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Right, I accept the vote by point. Then you have to accept what it says.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u176	Thank you, President. I accept the separate vote of paragraph 6, the rest of them do not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u177	No, but if it's for points, no... the lawyer will illustrate them about this. Before the doubt, in order not to step in, I'd rather consult with those you know, before doing something that doesn't fit the rules. [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u178	After consulting with the lawyer, the chairman has the power to order the vote. So all the points separately. [[Protests.]] You have that power, say the legal service. Another thing is I don't accept the point vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then he doesn't accept the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block. No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! [[Strong murmurers.]] Mrs. Vilán is talking to me and the lawyer has just spoken to me. So he has two options. One is whether to accept a point vote. So, in that case, if I have the power, as the lawyer tells me, I'll order the vote of the six points separately. Yes, yes, listen, the lawyer is to advise. And if not, you have another option, which is not to accept a point vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u179	Thank you, President. This is not the first time that this has happened to us, it has happened to us in Commission 2 once and the decision has not been exactly that. It was just the opposite. In any case, I do not accept the vote by points from either of the two groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u180	Thank you very much. All right, so we vote as the motion is formulated. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of the environment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 24 votes against, 37 abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u181	We now vote on the motion by the Joint Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Carmen Iglesias Sueiro on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of care, information, protection and defence of orphans as a result of gender violence. A point vote has also been requested here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u182	You have the word, why not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u183	Thank you very much. There is a change in the wording of point 8, which would be as follows: "8. Carry out the appropriate amendments to the laws or urge the corresponding amendments to them to avoid the binding without legal authorization of the accounts of shared ownership by the aggressor or his family." So I accept the point-by-point vote and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u184	Thank you very much. So let us get that text. It would be the same: the vote will be accepted by points and points 2, 3, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 8, which is the transaction. All right? Vote of points 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of care, information, protection and defence of orphans as a result of gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. These points are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u185	Let us now vote on the remaining points of the motion. Vote for points 1, 4 and 5 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of care, information, protection and defence of orphans as a result of gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These points of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u186	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be taken in relation to the social protection of the unemployed. No amendments were tabled. G.P. Motion vote. by the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the social protection of unemployed workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u187	We then proceed to debate item 4 on the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in the area of social protection for unemployed workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u188	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u189	Mr Fajardo has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u190	Well, the beginning of this afternoon session made quite clear the incompatibility of desserts with conducting the session in the afternoons, and the difficulties that this session normally takes place when there is a dissident president about the initiatives and decision-making capacity of each group about their initiative. We have previously attended an exercise of absolute mediocrity by the People's Party, a mediocrity in political terms, for they are unable to understand the social reality of this country. To deny that today's biggest tragedy is unemployment, is to deny a reality, simply because the goal of the People's Party is possibly to ensure that such unemployment is conjunctural, and that it therefore acts on the labour market, as it is already doing. Fear is a weapon of mass destruction for the labor rights of this country, and fear of losing the job, which is much easier today for the labour reforms of the People's Party, and the previous ones of the Socialist Party, means that many workers renounce their rights and defend their quality in employment, simply for fear of dismissal. Let's remember that these reforms lead to today's release in this country being free, anyone can be fired in this country. And the goal of the People's Party is that besides free being absolutely free, that's the last goal of the People's Party in the labour market, a labour market of slaves and not of workers and workers with rights. But if that wasn't enough, the People's Party also managed to destroy the levels of coverage of our unemployed and our unemployed. When the People's Party arrived at the Government, the average income for the benefit of unemployment at the contribution level or at the aid level was EUR 843, ended last year with only 779. Attacks on this right to receive a benefit, when you've lost your job, are absolutely gross. They've begun with a reduction of the People's Party before. When a person was unemployed, from the sixth month, he paid 60% of his regulatory base. The People's Party has made this a 50%, 10% decline in purchasing power, which means that many families cannot survive in a dignified way. The allowance and benefit were eliminated for more than 45, those people who had more difficulty re-entering because of their high age, and it was making it difficult for the older 55 to access that benefit. But if that wasn't a little bit, they didn't renew that possibility that people would recover the days of unemployment spent when they were in an ERE, and this is a tremendously serious situation. Until recently, when a company decided to use ERE mechanisms to solve an economic situation, workers could be fired temporarily, or part of their day, and they would charge that part of their unemployment. So they went to a worker's own resource to save an immediate situation of the company, and by the end of the year that part of the unemployment spent was returned to that worker so that if there was a subsequent dismissal, they could have access to 100% of his benefit. The People's Party has decided that no, that the worker has to put his unemployment to the benefit of the company to solve his situation, but when he's finished he's already consumed that unemployment, and therefore he's not returned that right. We are facing a brutal attack by the People's Party on the rights of unemployed workers. And so much so, that the data we gave before is very significant to us, 45,000 million euros less. A very important amount, and that in many cases is the same amount that this country has devoted itself to saving banks. The banks deserve the api of the state, but the unemployed do not. That's the policy of the People's Party. It's not the same for a banker for the People's Party who tens of thousands of unemployed people who don't have jobs. They know who they defend, and they know what their goal is: to guarantee the economy to those who then guarantee the rotational doors, or to guarantee the financing or payment of their headquarters. That is why we want to denounce this situation, and we believe that alternative measures must be taken to protect people who are unemployed. The unemployed in this country under the age of 30 – which are almost half the population under the age of 30 – receive only 6% benefits. That is, of the Thursdays that are unemployed, only six out of ten receive some kind of benefit. It seems to us an absolutely unbearable amount, and therefore we have proposed alternatives to address the situation of these unemployed workers. Alternatives that are better, and of course more effective, than those that have been absolutely advertising the People's Party. In that makeup effect, that party that presented itself to the elections saying it was the workers' party, what he did was attack these workers. In 2014, the People's Party announced a plan to support the unemployed, and announced an increase or expenditure of EUR 420 million. Only 25% of this quantity was used. They later announced the Youth Guarantee Plan, EUR 945 million for that Youth Guarantee Plan. They just spent 12.25%. And finally, the Juncker Plan, which in this state – according to the People's Party – would mobilise 2,500 million euros to secure 5,000 jobs. An indecency, an indecency! In Britain, with 1,400 million euros mobilized with the same Juncker Plan, 70,000 jobs were created. It is clear that the People's Party is incapable, and it has no intention of acting on the situation of our unemployed. If the People's Party wishes this army of unemployed, it'll take down labour rights. And that's why we say it's time – as the People's Party said in austerity – to return the benefit and protection to people directly attacked by the vampires of the crisis. The crisis was not random, nor was it a divine damage, it was decided by someone in the offices to attack the usual ones, to create a more unjust society, where four have much more money and those below we have less and less money. It was a crisis to increase the benefits of the bank and multinationals by deprotection of those below. Everything that takes away the working class, everything that takes away pensioners, everything that takes away the unemployed, will stop at the pockets of the usual ones. And that's why large multinationals increase their profits, so they distribute multi-millionaire profits to banks and big electricity, and that's why families can't get to the end of the month. In Galicia more than 50,000 families have all their members in unemployment, more than 50,000 families are overwhelmed by a situation that means that in many cases they cannot afford their food, they cannot afford their heating in winter and they cannot meet the basic needs of their children. So we think it's time to put on the table an alternative to protect 100% of the unemployed population. An alternative that returns the rights to the unemployed, who today are a population without rights, who is exposed to the abuse of the employer, who in many cases uses these unemployment figures to want them to work in harsh conditions, for wages of real misery. But while that's not enough, for the coverage of 100%, we suggest that it is necessary to cover the most disadvantaged groups, women and young people at the age of 45. The three groups of unemployed people who are worse off, who suffer worse, and who have worse conditions for access to these benefits. So, just like we did in the previous motion, we put three very simple positions on the table to solve the situation. And nothing needs to be invented, you have to use the same budget that was used earlier to meet our unemployed. We must escape those things that mean an attack on our public archives. If each of the euro billions of euros were cheated, or they ended up in Panama, if they were used to pay taxes, today the most disadvantaged classes – our unemployed – could have decent benefits and not be in a situation where only two out of ten receive some kind of State aid. That state that leaves its citizenship orphaned, is an indecent state, and therefore a state that needs to be changed, because even our Constitution recognizes, in its articulated, the need to give priority to our unemployed. We believe that this is a fundamental problem of the country, and that is why we are bringing these initiatives to defend ourselves in this House, because the biggest problem we have today is that unemployment that is ruining our economy, which is ruining recovery, but which, above all, means a social target drama, which forces many families to a situation certainly regrettable by the austere policies of the People's Party, the Troika, and the footmans of the great international bank. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u191	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u192	Thank you, President. Well, let's talk again about the German labour market, which means that we really have a very serious problem – even if the People's Party denies it – in the labour market. The German labour market has been in the ICU for years and it's in the ICU for years, and its vital constants are at least minimal. Unemployment increased by 5,200 people –57 people per day – between January and March, with 227,900 unemployed according to the EPA of the first quarter. But job destruction is much greater, since the number of people employed has 11,400 people less than in December, a 1.10% less. So I don't know where the People's Party looks at the triumph of its policies, unless the goal of the People's Party is to radically impoverish the working class and condemn it to work in unhealthy conditions and angry conditions, because that's what it has so far achieved with its policies. For the long-term unemployed, and therefore exhausted the contribution, the Government has a battery of handcuffs that must be won by the pulse, to such an extent that last April only 46.9% of the unemployed entered some kind of help into Galicia, that is, 106,885 people received an allowance of more than 210,000. So, more than 121,000 people didn't get any allowance in Galicia, they don't have any income in this country, 121,000 people, and you talk about the triumph of labor policies. And of these 106,885 people receiving benefits – more than 106,000, nearly 107,000 –, only 44,892 earn unemployment, the rest are non-contributory benefits, which, as I said, have to be earned, which is not easy to receive, so few people perceive them. We have the Plan Prépé, which you have to apply for in two months since the unemployment benefit has been exhausted – hence useless for people who were already unemployed before –; the Income Active Insertion, for over 45 years, also with a lot of obstacles; the family help that must be processed in a month since the end of the benefit; the Employment Activation Programme, for those of long duration, which have to be with family charges and have exhausted the benefit six months before – which they do not say is how these people will live for these six months until they are granted help, because there are six months in which they are doomed to live without income; I would like to see you live six months without income – for you. According to Minister Fatima Báñez himself, on 31 March 2016, they benefited from the economic benefit of almost EUR 426 99,410 people throughout the state, compared to the more than 400,000 potential beneficiaries. I mean, in 13 months of vigil, it's barely one out of four potentially beneficial people. This explains why out of the 850 million budgeted for 2015 only 19%, 160 million was executed. They don't even execute the matches that they have to get these people to get some kind of income, they condemn them to live without income and they come here to talk about triumphs and successes of their work policy. The 2016 budget included a credit of 350 million for twelve months, and in the first quarter of this year, not even 10%, only 32 million. We will support this non-law proposal even if we present a replacement amendment to points 2 and 3 of the resolution. In point 2, instead of claiming that no person registered in unemployment is entitled to a benefit, what we say is that all persons registered in unemployment are guaranteed that benefit and that this is no less than the minimum inter-professional wage. At the initiative he put "a worthy amount". That could be a different amount for everyone, and you'll have to put a minimum limit and that no one in this country could or should earn less than the minimum interprofessional wage, because for that it's called "minimum," that is to say, it's understood that it's the minimum one can charge a person for his work. And in the other amendment to point 3, instead of claiming from the Government unemployment protection for unemployed people who have no other income, particularly for women with family burdens...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u194	...–end, President, thank you – we add "people", because we believe that the object to protect is the least, it is the dependent person who is in charge of that worker or worker in unemployment, and therefore any single-person family unit should have this help. And also, instead of "older than 45," we believe that any independent person has to have secured incomes that allow him to be independent and not economically dependent on his parents or grandparents. So, even if the amendment is not accepted, we will vote in favour. Let's hope it's taken into account. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u196	Well, indeed, the People's Party is in an electoral campaign, a campaign in progress. And in front of this election campaign, Galicia almost disappears from the debate, Mrs. Romero. I don't know if you don't have the disaggregated data from Galicia, because what you did here was to mostly extract the data from the Spanish state. What does that mean? Two things... No, more than two thirds of his intervention were devoted to the situation in Spain – which is not very boisterous, of course –. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what does that mean? First of all, for you the first is Spain, the question of Galicia is always smaller. Whenever Spain goes well, Galicia can always wait. And the second is that the Spanish State is already in a situation that, of course, is not to throw rockets, but Galicia's situation with regard to the Spanish State is that it is even worse. It's just that Galician data is all much worse. Galicia is not converging, it's diverging, and the data about Spain have the worst behavior in job creation, the worst behavior in job destruction, and that's why you're dedicated here to talking about that data from Spain. And look, I have to tell you that, in fact, there was a time when it was said that the best social policy was job creation. Yes, but it's just that you have to update your notes, because that was when employment was more or less stable and it was about with wages that allowed people who had jobs to live decently. But at the moment, the labour market situation in Galicia no longer allows the best social policy to be created because the job being created in this country, as a result of the policies being put in place by the People's Party, is a precarious job, it is a very high-caliber job and it is a very low-quality job. So, despite that electoral campaign, despite the maquerading, the reality doesn't look like the speech you said here in the previous intervention. The reality is that Galicia has more stops today than when the People's Party, with Nuñez Feijóo at the front, returned to the Government of Unity in 2009. The reality is that Galicia has less busy today than in 2009. He's got 147,000 less busy and busy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. The reality is that Galicia has 82,000 active people less since 2009, that is the sad reality of our country, of our labour market. Just as the reality of the labour market is that labour poverty is being structurally installed; that labour poverty which means having a job does not allow people to develop a more or less dignified life. Just as the unemployment situation is becoming structural. More than half of Galicia's unemployed people have been looking for work for more than two years, and they can't find it, that's the reality. What's that? So it gives an emergency situation, with data like that in Galicia there are 33,000 homes where no income comes in because people living in that home find no work despite searching for it and because they've run out of help or benefits; that there are more than 80,000 homes with all people working on unemployment and that have increased in more than 5,000 since the last quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016. It's data from the EPA, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's not data I'm making up here on behalf of the Nationalist Block Galego, it's data from the EPA in the first quarter of 2016 – which I suppose you will too –. Just like that EPA data says 30,000 families have no income in our country. So, in the face of that situation, a situation that leads to a growing group of wealthier people amassing wealth in the face of an immense population – the working class and what remains of the middle classes – with fewer resources; where wages fall, where pensions fall, where unemployment coverage falls. You can paint it as you like, you can come here twisting the numbers. I'm giving you data from the EPA that's just out of the oven, this first quarter of 2016; data for the EPA Galicia. And they throw this tremendous situation -- there's no other qualifier -- where we have austerity -- those policies that are nothing but cut -- down on labour and financial regulation, the roles of Panama -- all that together, that combination, what do you do? Because 23.8% of the population in Greece is at risk of poverty or exclusion, 23.8% of the population in Greece, one in three people, is at risk of poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u198	I'm risking poverty, I'm not saying poverty. You know what it means to risk poverty: to be below the minimum inter-professional wage. They're people who have difficulty seeing if they can put on the heating, what's going to happen next month, if they're going to have a job, what's going to happen next week, if they're going to be able to pay the bills, if they're going to be able to pay the mortgage... one out of three Welsh and Welsh are in that situation. That's the situation. So, in front of that, what can be done?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u199	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u200	Look elsewhere – finished, Madam President – to be accomplices, to continue to put in place and implement the policies that the top ones say or face. And, of course, BNG doesn't come to this Parliament to be the transmission belt of any pressure group or powerful.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u202	We came here to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. And in order to defend them, we have to put in place completely different policies that you've put into effect until now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u203	For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Quintas Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again. I also want to say that we are going to support this initiative. Unfortunately, and at my trial, I think that indecently we heard how there are those who justify that we get reinforced from the tunnel that I put in the crisis and that we are much better. I think the People's Party doesn't take the right path by saying this sort of thing. And it's funny, because there's data that suggests we don't take advantage of this period of crisis to change the economic-productive structure that led us to it. And give them back to numbers, if there's more, if there's less, if... I don't think it reflects the reality that's happening in this country and that's suffering thousands of men and women. As I said in the previous initiative, not only the European Union and most of those who write about it say that workers in Spain are poor. What is much more serious is that, apart from poor workers, we have a high rate of people in total deprotection. I think establishing inequality is promoting the absence of rights. It's something that's constitutionally forbidden, isn't it? So sometimes the governments of the People's Party are lacking even the laws that we provide for the Spanish and the Greek and the Greek. Spain seems to recover, but it does so with a model of growth based on precariousness, insecurity and, above all – and I repeat – in the absence of rights. The lack of protection for the unemployed must add a double deprotection. Because not only are they not perceived to be unemployed but they are increasingly limited in their rights because the policies of the People's Party have cut into basic public services; something we believe that no one could touch, but that, of course, the People's Party dared to play. According to data, two out of three people in Galicia are unemployed and have no protection. And, as I say, that non-protection must be added to the double deprotection of cuts in basic services. The so-called activation program, launched by the Central Government, given the restrictive conditions imposed, is affecting a very small number of people, and the impact in Galicia is ridiculous in response to existing needs. Let's just remember one data: the number of homes where all members are stopped exceeds 95,000, with an increase of 112 per cent compared to 2009. And, I say, Members and Members of the People's Party can come here to talk about the previous quarter, about the next quarter and what's next. But the reality is that work is precarious, the reality is that our unemployed are unprotected, and the reality is that our young and young have no work. The reality is that this country is becoming impoverished; that I don't know if it's a way to end the problems, that is, that there is no one, to close the country. This government has been very permissive in dismantling employment for the sake of private interest, justifying it with productivity and viability. He did not at any time act as a defender of the administered. Today unemployment, precariousness and deprotection are the main problems in Galicia and, as I said before, it is not enough to change people, it is necessary to change policies, increase budgets and execute them. Fictitious policies continue to be celebrated with employment data, which are essentially due to precarious, absolutely precarious jobs – I say no seasonal, no, no precarious – jobs that we could consider indecent. Around 100,000 people do not receive unemployment benefit – unemployed persons who have work experience and who do not, I repeat, receive no unemployment benefit –; the equivalent, Madam, to which the city of Ourense did not exist – so to see it. That's the reality. These policies, in addition, are absolutely transversal, trigger a demographic crisis and a great drama in Galicia and, especially, in the interior. Registered data is located...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u205	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u206	...in which there are 17,491 people more than in 2009. And, of course, Mrs Tellado, Mr Tellado has been very well talking about Zapatero, but since the post is already busy, it does not waste time, because the socialists have lost the elections in Spain – and we know – but it is ruling the People's Party, and in Galicia seven years. And I think that when you talk about lack of benefits, young people with careers who have to leave, older people who have their pensions stagnated, I think that frivolity and propaganda policy shouldn't be. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Romero Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u208	Thank you, President. Again, good afternoon. Well, well, I want to warn all your lordships that we're not going to live a janja vu or a looped stream. I say this because we are debating a bill that is identical to the request made to the Counsellor, whose motion we have just substanceized two minutes ago, but with the same statement of motives, the same date of registration, only the sign of questioning was removed. But, well, each group does with its share of initiatives what it wants. But with so many problems that we have in the country and so little that these problems are addressed by the People's Party and the evil we are doing, in the same full bring one matter, well, because it must be that things are not so bad or so bad that the People's Party is doing it. [[Applause]] But we are before the mantra of AGE, which is this populist discourse of Podemos. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the 23 minutes you've been talking about this subject, with another initiative of the unemployed, Mr. Fajardo, you didn't spend a single minute talking about favoring job creation or creating wealth to then be able to share it, or to generate a single job; not a single word. In this Parliament, however, they stand against any industrial project, against Reganosa, against Elnosa, against Ence, against the thermal power plants, against Meirama-As Pontes, against the marine wind, against the technological pole of unmanned planes of Rozas, against PSA-Citroën, and if the ship comes from Saudi Arabia we also oppose ships in Galicia. They're against everything to generate jobs and wealth in Galicia, in everything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They propose public rents, they propose public incomes and perpetuate subsidies, but it's just that you haven't dedicated a minute to saying how and with what money they're going to pay them. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Beneficial policy that so upset Mr Sánchez this morning. That's a charity policy. Ladies and gentlemen, this populist speech of Podemos, of the Tides, of which they are all together, which always presents themselves with them to the elections, only brings frustration. We're looking at it in Greece, where thousands of people who used to go out in the street support them, deceived by that speech, are now going out to protest; they're going out to protest for a new cut in pensions; and they're going sweet, gentlemen, and they're going sweet. They keep a minimum pension for those who contributed 20 years of 384 euros. How bad we are in Spain with regard to Greece! They protest for the increase of 7 points the taxes on all incomes between 20,000 and 25,000 euros/year, for the rise of the VAT, for the rise of electricity, for the rise of fuel, for the rise of gas, for the rise of telephony. But if they don't like Greece, we're also seeing it in Venezuela, that country that finances them and trains them to raid the sky, that finance them and train them to raid the sky, that country of endless queues in supermarkets, that then, when you enter, you find the empty shelves of food products and basic products, the country of electricity cuts. [[Murmurs.]] Is that the model they want? The model of Greece and Venezuela? Not us, Your Honor, not us. In recent years in Spain it has increased by 60 billion euros or expenditure on social benefits. Over EUR 100 billion has been devoted to the provision of unemployment and subsidies, with two years of reception and without yet reaching the 2007 level of collection. In 2015 Spain has not yet reached the 2007 level, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] People's Party governments guarantee education for all, health for all, and pensions for our seniors. Because they pay, Your Honor, because we are solvents, Your Honor, and because we generate credibility. [[Murmurs.]] But not with the easy and populist speech of Podemos, Mareas and all these, but with economic policies... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u209	Mr. Ron, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u210	...accepted and responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u211	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u212	...that generate confidence and certainty. You still have three minutes, Mr Fajardo, to see if you're talking about industrial policy, economic policy, active employment policies. To see if you're talking, ultimately, about generating wealth, generating employment, so you can get more collection, enough to pay for everything you're asking for, but to pay for health care, to pay for education, and also to pay for the rest of the social services. But look, they're not so innocent, because we can, we can, and the confluences, ladies and gentlemen, have the command away from many governments of many autonomous communities, and these are not exactly characterized by making the speech that Mr. Fajardo, AGE and all the left in this Parliament preach. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They are characterized by the rise in taxes, the increase in high charges, nepotism, the inability to manage budgets, the demonization of entrepreneurs, the paralysis and loss of job and wealth-generating projects, as well as the attack on concerted education and national symbols. That is, that lessons from Podemos, Mareas and all of you together to improve people's lives, none, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And since this is a repetition of the counsellor's plea, I ask the president to link with the counselor's reply, which, of course, this group supports. Nothing else and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the author group of the non-law proposition Mr. Fajardo Recouso has the floor. Give a voice to Mr. Fajardo's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u214	Mrs. Cristina Romero, the Tellado model is wrong. The Tellado model isn't yours, it's not comfortable, it's not, it's not. [[Laughter]] The mud is not your model and you don't try it, because that serves to grow in the PP, you don't try it, because it's already the congress, I don't know what's left for the next one; it won't be the secretary general. Be careful with models that aren't your own, be careful. He said that song of Love is in the air. I say here that of Fear is in the air, fear is in the air, the fear of the People's Party that we're going to take up the government, and they're spreading that message of chaos from the confluences, the chaos of the others, that policy of assimilated us with Venezuela, with Greece, missed North Korea. Look, every time they assimilate us to these things, they lose credibility, because when we're talking about the unemployed in this country, we're talking about a very serious problem for you to tell a person who's been at your house unemployed for years now that it's Venezuela's problem. No, the problem of this unemployed Greek is a People's Party which condemns unemployment, which does not give it alternatives to employment and which also tells you that it will not charge any benefits. By the way, you tell me where we're going to get the money to pay the benefits. I'll give you something: fraud. You said the convergences were the parties I don't know what. [...] Soon they will say: that party, what are you talking about?, when they talk about the PP, the People's Party of Valencia. [[By order of the President, Rodríguez Arias, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure, these expressions are withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] But if they want to talk about how these issues can be paid, we give them a given: 45,000 million euros less, and we repeat it, that they were budgeted and that they didn't spend. And when you tell me what the employment policies of this organization are, the first thing is that people have a decent salary, to activate domestic demand, to be able to attract consumption. And you, in the meantime, do the opposite: exporting your panderette nationalism to Panama, Switzerland and each of the tax havens. Look, if we give the People's Party time, it'll end up making a tax haven for the money of the Galician PP. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Fajardo. [[Murmurs.]] Non-law proposition... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mr. Puy? What do you want the word for? Give Mr. Puy a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u216	To request the withdrawal of highly offensive words for the dignity and honorability of the group I represent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u217	Yes. You've got... [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, Mr. Fajardo, the allusions you made to the People's Party are withdrawn from the agenda. Thank you. We continue with the next... [[Murmurs.]] We've heard them all, Mr. Fajardo. Yeah, we're all listening. I repeat, we all listen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We continue... please be quiet. We continue with the next non-law proposal, of the Joint Group, on the initiative of... Yes, Mr. Sánchez? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You weren't in the debate, we've already talked to the Member of your parliamentary group... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, look, if you like, check it out in the papers, but there were several. Yes, you know perfectly what they were; therefore, there are retreats from the agenda. [[Protests.]] Mr. Fajardo, I call you by order. Do you have a call to order by Mr. Santalices today? You have a call to order. He has a call to order and all the allusions that have just been made by the People's Party have been removed. [[Murmurs.]] Next initiative... [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs Martínez, you are not in this debate. He has an initiative now from his Joint Group, the initiative of Monica Fernández Rodríguez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Ms. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, on the impulse by the Government of Greece to a bill regulating institutional advertising and action to be carried out for the granting of grants to the media for the use of Greek
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u218	No amendments were tabled. You have the floor, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u219	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Well, I don't know if we all eat gas today La Revoltosa, let's go! I bring a pretty recurring and topical theme today, don't I?: the theme of the English language in the media. Article 5 of Galicia's Autonomy Statute states that Galicia's own language is Greek and that the normal and official use of both languages must be guaranteed by the public authorities of that country. In addition, the Law on Linguistic Standardization states that the Union must contribute to promoting Greek in the media. When he returned the PP to Join, he did it with an electoral programme that committed themselves to eradicating opaque media practices, they promised that media aid policy would become legal support, as is the case in most European countries, and subsidies and other economic contributions would always enjoy transparency. But now that we are ending this second legislation, because the famous promise of institutional advertising has not been fulfilled. We have since 2009 when the Feijóo era was established, well, with constant news of economic injections to certain media. They practiced a policy of asphyxiation, of harassment, and of falling towards the Greek media, not demanding in their grants the means they write in Spanish and are the great beneficiaries of all the money of the Welsh and the Greek. The Government of the Union must take the necessary measures to ensure the existence of a space of communication in Greek that ensures the viability of the media written in our language. The Council of Europe, through the Committee of European Experts, gave an ear to the language policy of the Union at the beginning of 2016, and this is collected in the report in the fourth round of compliance assessment of the European Charter of minority and regional languages. We highlight in this document Article 11, which explains that the territories that subscribe to the Charter are obliged to ensure the existence of the media in their own languages, audiovisual and printed, promoting and facilitating their creation, training of professionals and professionals. But this is not the case with the arrival of Feijóo to the German Government, where the public aid was drastically reduced, causing the closure of newspapers using the Greek. And from the Council of Europe, there are also other gaps in language, whether in justice or in health care. And it's very significant who receives all these subsidies. In 2015, the budget of the Union allocated approximately 182,000 euros in support of the use of the Greek language, but these aids were mostly stopped at the large communication groups, with hundreds of thousands of euros to be used; only 8% in the whole medium, according to the report of the Association of Media in Greek. The distribution of these amounts emanates from a resolution of 15 October 2015 from the General Media Secretariat. The resolution resolves the appeal of 7 March of the same year, which lays down the regulatory bases for the granting of economic aid in a non-competitive competition scheme, where neither the purpose nor the criterion for its adjudication nor any competitive competition appears. The Union must regulate the system of subsidies, and positively discriminate against those who were in Greek. And for example, as is the case in Catalonia, where the competitive disadvantage of the Catalan media or even in another language, such as the spider – which was the old Occitan – is why aid to these media is considered relevant. Or the case of Euskadi, where it is also intended for the consolidation, development and normalization of the media in the Basque Country. Or it seems that I am going to have to go to Scandinavian countries, where even in the case of Norway the protection of minorities is highlighted, especially publications written in Sami, reducing the possibility of monopolies; or I have to go to Sweden too, in publications with reference in Finnish or other minority languages. In 2011, Galicia was one of the autonomous communities with the highest percentage of newspapers per capita in the state, and this is no longer the case now. They remained on their way to our land, which was a centenary seminary, Vieiros, Galician, The pier, Galician today, Journal of Galicia, Monday to Friday, which was a free newspaper which, along with its alliance with AGN, came to be a newspaper with the second largest roll of numbers after the Voice of Galicia. And once they were gradually closing, another one appears in 2012, Dioivo, who also had to close; it was a digital newspaper and had to be closed in 2013. We understand that the closure of these newspapers could be due to different causes: because of the crisis, because of the lack of economic support for the Greek media, because of the lack of subsidies, especially because of the marginalization of our language, according to complaints from the owners themselves, of the Academy of the Greek language and even the Bureau for linguistic normalization, and the academics themselves reminded the Greek Government of the legal obligation to promote the language and that it had to start an annual and constant process of increasing the use of Welsh in the public and private media to overcome the situation of marginalization and confinement in the cultural field. And now we are talking about Decree 126/2006, where it provides greater systematicity and transparency to the conventional activity of the Galician Union, which, under the Transparency Act of the same year, established the duty to make public the agreements between the Government of Galicia and other administrations, companies and entities. That way of the conventions is the one that comes using the German Government with greater assiduousness to finance the media. And we're talking about the fact that practically the only way we have to know about these contributions is by the Register of Conventions itself and even by the Official Journal of Galicia. Many of these funds come from the agreements signed by the General Secretariat of Media, a department directly dependent on the Presidency Council of the Union, and there are two types of conventions. One, which aims to promote written reading between public education students, has brought a subsidy of just over 350,000 euros that have been given to the newspapers of the old time, be it La Voz de Galicia, Faro de Vigo, El Progreso or La Région. And the editorials themselves, most of them, have benefited from the second batch of aids, which is the promotion of the use of new information and communication technologies between the students of the same public schools, with an allocation of EUR 170,000 that is more or less shared among them, those of the usual. On the margins of the conventions of the General Media Secretariat, in the first quarter of this year, the Government also distributed from the council itself, to contribute to the normalization and promotion of the Greek language and to ensure that the implementation of the Greek in the media was greater and the dissemination in all social fields, normalizing its use through the written press and the newspapers' websites in their information line. For this campaign let's say he invested almost 400,000 euros and went to give them to them; my suspect! Let's say that the aid they share is in the concept of economic aid in a non-competitive competition scheme, where a lot of money is distributed. On the other hand, it attracts much attention in these aids to the low level of exigencies that the German Government itself has in the requirements of the percentage with regard to writing in Greek, which is minimal, 8%, is ridiculous. And how should the justification for the help be done? With several documents that repeat year after year, none of the media increases the use of Welsh. Reports as a responsible statement indicating the percentage of use of the language in the publications, information or issues of the previous calendar year, or the call and express future commitment that will maintain or increase the language during the year corresponding to the call. And another responsible statement that indicates the percentage of publications, information or broadcasts oriented to the normalization of language, the defense of the Galician entity, the promotion of its values and the defense of our culture in the natural year of the summons itself. But there's also a separate help for the Greek media that really, compared to the first, is ridiculous. Aids initially amounting to 40,000 euros in the previous case, which also increased to 160,000. But, however, and the difference in what happens to the other media, to the large media groups, where digital media and radios of these groups are subsidized, the aids here are only intended for periodicals written in English. And now that we're in the election year, here it looks like millions are already raining. The Union is increasing the media agreements at the time of the election, something that has already happened, above all, after the 2015 municipal elections, with large sums that will now reach the Greek elections. So the proposal I put forward is that the Galician Parliament urges the Joint Committee to promote the bill that regulates institutional advertising and to provide justly grants to the Greek media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u221	Good afternoon, everyone. This initiative is actually done, because, precisely from the point of view of institutional advertising, the more it increases it is in the electoral year and in the purposes of legislation, and it happens that, in fact, we are at the end of legislation and also in the electoral year, and you take advantage of, very well, the thread of institutional advertising, and not regulate it, to do what they do, which are these campaigns of propaganda, autobomb and other farandulas – we could say that. At the initiative brought by the Joint Group, there are actually two different parts. On the one hand, the negative consequences of the dangerous linguistic policy of the Galician Union that we were able to see in the unfortunate appearance of the Secretary-General in the Commission, where we clearly noted that there was a certain concern, but then there was an attempt to deceive opposition and citizenship through floral games in an empty rhetoric of contents. The fourth report, in fact, of the European Charter of Languages, in Article 11, on the situation of the media. But it has to be said that the worst of all is not the consequences of what is expressed in the agreement on January 26, 2016, but how the State replied, through the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy, to what happened with the Greek-language media. Because of course, when you read: "proliferation of local, public and private media, which use Greek," a suspect that there's something behind it that's not right, that doesn't respond to reality. Or when it's seen that you attribute the achievement of digital media, as it can be public square or Galicia confidential, as if the presence of these media was due to institutional action. Or another hive, which was contained in paragraph 700, where what was the disappearance of support for the role of certain media was sold – in the report that transferred the General Secretariat of Linguistic Policy through the State – as a decision, a will, of these means, that they preferred to move to the digital world, when we know very well the employment consequences that had the disappearance of the lines on paper. A consequence that goes beyond employment, which also comes from the presence of normalization of everyday means of shooting in Greek, which, logically, is reduced to ashes with its disastrous policy. So that report that you have tried to make up -- you should say -- delicious for your side, because you have to admit that if you're not doing the job, you have to say it. And on the other hand, there is the theme of institutional advertising, which we have already discussed here, in February 2015, when this proposed law of the Association of the Greek Media, which had been registered – if I am not mistaken – in September 2014, where we have discussed widely and we have had the refusal of the majority group of the People's Party to a bill of institutional publicity that – we remember – President Feijóo himself, on 15 October 2013, in the debate of the state of the nation, announced as imminent the arrival of that bill. And we are defending, from the Alternative Glaga de Left, the need for an institutional advertising concept as a public service of veracity and transparency, of legality, of institutional loyalty, of neutrality, of efficiency, of non-discrimination, of plurality, of ethics, ultimately, because when institutional advertising deviates, if it distorts, for partisan use, we witness a violation of the standards of ethics, of standards that must prevail in democracy. There are many complaints about this. For example, the newspaper unions in Galicia denounced precisely the scarce assurances of control in the daring that you apply to these great media that then, if they do, use the Greek in a witness form, but because they had very well seen the great truths that you tell as lies, or lies as truths, and then logically inoculate Galicia's imagination of a sad reality that is its reality, the reality of the People's Party, which from then on had absolutely everything, the media, the institutional advertising, but from a purely biased point of view and, of course, lacking ethics. We will therefore support the initiative, although unfortunately we know exactly what the People's Party is going to say, that is to say no, because we already have proof in all the work done throughout this legislation. You'll still sell more smoke. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u222	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u223	Thank you very much and very late. First of all, to say that the Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative, because we share in substance the two aspects which are being considered by this Parliament today. The first, the necessity of a law that regulates institutional advertising, and the second, also the imperative necessity – I would say – that the public resources that are being used theoretically for the normalization of the Greek language not only meet that end, but are distributed in a transparent way, with objective criteria, and, therefore, that we advance in a democratic relationship in these two aspects. Indeed, for us there is a deficit, there are many democratic deficits in this state. One of them is a clearly opaque media relationship between public authorities and the media, and a huge deficit as well as the situation of the Greek language. I didn't have a chance to do it, but it would be interesting if we had a breakdown of how much public money has been allocated in the last thirty years to, in theory, normalize the Greek language in the media, and what has been the result of these funds. It's enough, for any of us, to take a newspaper and check how these funds, of course, did not serve to make the Greek have a greater presence in the media. On the contrary, the reports that have been made about the presence of the Greek in the media say it's diminished. And the truth is that these years of government Feijóo have been a few black years for the Greek language, and very significantly for the media, where he not only closed the only newspaper that was in the Greek language, but also reduced the presence of the Greek in the public media; and in the pollination that the People's Party demonstrated in this field. Even when there were social initiatives to recover the press in English, what they did was orders of help that excluded those means that they were betting that the Greek had a minimal presence on the written paper. This is therefore the reality of the facts and the reality of the intentions of the politics that the People's Party has developed in this area in relation to these two things. We, of course, believe little that this initiative serves more than to stir up a debate, which in itself is already something commendable in times like this. Especially because we had the opportunity here to put in place, through a bill, a legal framework that regulates institutional advertising. We discussed – it was remembered here – on February 24, 2015, an initiative that brought the BNG Group, made and developed by the Association of the Greek Media, where an institutional advertising regulation was already established. The People's Party voted against. He voted against it despite the fact that – imaginatively because of populism – Mr.Núñez Feijóo in 2009 presented himself with an electoral programme saying that one of the commitments he assumed was the development of a law regulating institutional advertising. I suppose it was Mr Feijóo's 2009 populism. But not only that, but that in 2013 – I also imagine that by populism – Mr. Núñez Feijóo in this very House, in the debate of the state of the nation, committed to bringing and developing in 2014 a law regulating institutional advertising. It is clear that in the full year 2016 there is no intention on the part of the People's Party to democratize the relationship between public authorities and the media. It is also clear that throughout this time there has been no attempt to rectify a lethal policy for the Greek language in the field of the media, but to consolidate the backwardness, inequality and the clearly discriminatory situation of the Greek language, and therefore deny us as Greeks and Greeks the right to have our language, in all areas, on equal terms. But we have already said that this is a subject which unfortunately will remain pending for the next legislation, because, regardless of what is happening today in this Parliament, it is clear that whoever has done everything contrary to what is proposed on this initiative cannot last hour amend the fact. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u225	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I haven't been to Cuba for a few years now, but the last time I went, it was a very curious thing. Leaving Havana airport there was a cartel that I can assure you that, if it wasn't the size of a football field, he was barely missing, and with huge letters he put: "Today in the world 200 million children will sleep on the street." And below, "None of them are Cuban." Publicity in a pure state. But of course, it's a fairer publicity from a fence, so... we, from our government, make an ad... I say it comes to the story of what Mrs. Romero was saying, comparing some groups of this House with other countries, and so on. Ours is more sophisticated. Our job is to distribute entire pages in the media. We don't talk about poverty or those things, our government tells us about Industry 4.0. Punctuated in all the media. The criterion will be known by the counsellor, for the truth is that there are only pictures of containers in some port, some supermodern greenhouse, and things like that. But of course, everyone knows that Cuba, Venezuela, these countries like that, on a second level, among other things, are ruled by people who lie, who deceive, who distort reality. Look, to prepare this initiative, I went along with what the People's Party was saying about the need to create and bring to Parliament an institutional advertising law. The People's Party said in their 2009 election program: "We shall pass a law of publicity and institutional communication of the Galician Union, because institutional communication policy must be subject to the law." Well, I followed his lead and there's up to 10 ads. Maybe I'm wrong and there's even more, but those I've seen them following the track since the president of the board, the vice president of the board, Mr. Cabaleiro, all those responsible for how many there have been since Mr. Feijóo landed at Monte Pio. Throughout all these years, up to ten times he deserved headlines, but not in any newspaper, is that on the official page of the Galician Council was published, as official and formal press news from the German Government, that a law of institutional advertising would be brought, and obviously it was not. And that's also why we're going to support this initiative, because it seems to us that the times are coming. I could bring here a beam, what happens is that I have little time and I don't know what it gives me. Since the latest announcements of the amendment of the Land Law, I don't know if the advertising was trying to cover up, Mr. Puy, the legislative hood that tells everyone that it is the law that had to be corrected before it came into force, and that now they're calling for the councils that need to modify it again because it leaves the agricultural holdings absolutely abandoned, and we can go on to the infinite. We, on his day, presented a bill here to debate what you said no, that it wasn't worth it. I brought Mr. Miranda here, who was still in this house, and my dear God!, I only invite you to go to the Journal of Sessions, which you must see what Mr. Miranda said. Of course, at that moment I had to make merits, as Mrs. Romero did today, because it was necessary to enter where to go: by the water. Mr. Miranda had to be forgiven for something else at that time. But what are we asking? Well, look, for example, in institutional advertising we had used the Greek as a fundamental vehicle. You said no. Principles of institutional advertising: veracity, transparency, neutrality, public interest, legality, efficiency, austerity in spending, institutional loyalty, equality and non-discrimination with regard to persons or their activities. At all, you said no. What do we ask of that law that we betray to debate here? Well, you guarantee, respect. For example, you took out the posters last year for this year to have them already well placed in certain cities to put the advertising – by calling it somehow – institutional from the Galician Board, because this year there would be elections – not known when, but there would be – and they drew a package for the 16th and the 17th. And like that, everything. So, look, when they get out here trying to compare us with others, it depends on what. The advertising cartel of Communist Cuba, for that is propaganda, propaganda of a communist regime, and what you do here trying to buy media, which are not going through your best time, not to say anything or even to deceive, you call it what you want. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u226	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u227	Thank you, Mr. President. I suppose, Mrs. Soneira, that fence you saw in Cuba would remind you of the fences Mr. Zapatero put on Plan E. I suppose you would associate it directly with that. [[Applause]] I'm sorry about the last sentence you just uttered, because you're talking about buying media. I don't know if that's what the Socialist Party does when it rules. What I'm saying is that there's no media here for sale in our country, which is a democratic country. If you intend to insinuate that the press in our country is bought, there you are! We live in a democratic country, unlike what you live. [[Applause]] Look, we devote the possible resources to institutional advertising, which we do not do is institutional advertising with photos of Mr. Abel Caballero in every newspaper announcement. You did that. We, of course, did not fall into it. And when you criticize the advertising of Plan Industria.0, what you should know is that this advertising is mandatory, because it is European funds that require advertising to the programmes in question. So don't try to cheat on citizenship. Mr. Ron said that institutional advertising is growing in an election year, and I, Mr. Ron, I have to give you the reason, even if you're not in the Chamber now. You're right, institutional advertising grows in the election year. See, in 2005, the People's Party ruled, €90,000 of institutional advertising. In 2006, I ruled the Bipartite, which you don't like to talk about, 2,200,000 euros. More than twice! [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, when the parties on the left rule, institutional advertising increases in election years. Yes, sir. In 2008, you ruled, €2,200,000. In 2009, you ruled, election year, 2,500,000 euros. Look, in 2012, we ruled, we were 1,700,000 euros, 40% less than with you. That's what makes us different from you and us. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, I'm not an shareholder of any means of communication, I'm not an shareholder of any means of communication, I don't know if from the Galician Nationalist Block they can say the same thing. What I can tell you is that in force there is in our country a state law of publicity and institutional communications, so we have fully complied with that law from the very first moment, which you cannot say of the Bipartisan Union. All campaigns developed by the current Galician Union are in line with current legislation, derived from an obligation and aimed at serving the needs and interests of citizens. In the last seven years, they will find no institutional campaign to highlight achievements in the management and self-comprehensibility of the People's Party Government. That would happen in previous situations. When planning an institutional campaign, the Galician Union, fulfilling its current legislation, is guided at all times by the principles of efficiency, transparency, austerity and efficiency. As far as rigor and austerity are concerned at the expense of the current Government, the figures I have just given, I think, are sufficiently illustrative. Besides, and in order to achieve greater rationalization of expenditure on institutional advertising, Junta has gone from investing in advertising insertions, number of ads, to doing so by impacts, that is, by number of people who receive the advertising message a certain number of times. In this way, it has significantly improved the influence of campaigns, combining the percentage of citizens who arrive at that campaign. We implement a progressive system of implementation of the cost system per thousand in the press and radio. We have published in all official newspapers the advertising campaigns of the Italian public administrations, through transparency of our campaigns, with publication through the DOG, the BOE, and the Official Journal of the European Union, when this is the case. So we share institutional advertising for objective reasons and in attention to objective criteria, such as audience data, in both media and newspapers, radio and television, as well as in digital media. As far as the Joint Group initiative is concerned, it has two points. The first is to promote a bill that regulates institutional advertising. We agree. This government has that bet, it has that commitment and it's going to do it. And the second point is to provide justly grants to the media for the use of Greek. That criterion is already in force, so we cannot adopt a text which means that we are not doing what we are doing. Of course, I strongly refuse to question Galicia's media neutrality, something that the Socialist Party has tried to do and that has tried to do the Left Galician Alternative Group. In Galicia no means of communication is bought because no means of communication is sold. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u228	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u229	I want to thank the AGE Group, the BNG and the PSOE for their support. I think, Mr. Tellado, you know what it costs to work and what it costs to get out of front of a small newspaper or other media that is devoted to information. Here, in this country, since the arrival of the Feijóo era, they promised a lot, but they didn't do anything. What you just told me is a little bit to be all right. I do know there's a forced publicity in newspapers and other media; it should usually be in all newspapers that are published in paper. This too could be taken to the digital newspapers, which I don't think is done at the moment. On the other hand, if I wanted to comment that the Government itself has not just explained the help it gives to the German media itself. It is true that there is great discrimination, and they cannot deny it because the data and history are there; it cannot be deleted. They are against even critical thinking, that there is no information monopoly, and above all that there is no social representativeness. And I no longer say these subsidies that they give to schools; they want children and children, of course, to think like you. And then something else, a great chance lost. With what's going on in the country, with the millions who invest in the press -- which I'm going to tell them then a little thing -- they could actually take advantage of advertising to raise awareness and make a good communication campaign about many problems we have, because we have to raise awareness of all the Galicians and the Greeks; above all, that, I think, well, they're going to have to change the communication office. And then I wanted to tell you -- that I commented on it so above -- that since last year's municipal elections there are strong incomes to certain media, especially because it seems that they didn't have the expected results; and that now, at the beginning of 2016, it seems that the Union expanded in more than half a million to annual media support and that it distributed 4 million among traditional media in the first three months of this year. And, well, it seems also that they're engaged 5 million in advertising and propaganda agreements, both those he's granted and those he's going to give over the year. Surely the campaign is being long, we don't know exactly when it's going to be, we have suspicions; so, until that moment, we're going to move quite a thousand euros that we all pay out of our pocket. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. We are now debating the next proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members, on the wind competition settlement by the Galician Union and the implementation of a new regulation that allows to develop an energy model of production based on renewable energy with distributed generation and self-consumption
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u231	No amendments were tabled. Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u232	We are in a parliament where the spokesperson for the People's Party can say without any kind of evidence that we are funded by Venezuela and, instead, we are called to attention, we are withdrawn expressions, when we talk about the People's Party being the party of fraud, when I really don't know if... [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] Mr. Puy, take it easy. "Try it"... to say Venezuela's... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u233	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u234	You don't have to prove it, do you?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u235	Quiet, please. Silence! Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Puy... [[Mr. Puy Fraga pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Puy, be quiet. That expression's gone. And you're on it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u236	No, no. There are no calls to order there?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u237	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u238	Mr. Puy acting as President of the Galician Parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u239	He is the spokesperson of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u240	Because he used to act as President of Parliament by ordering to withdraw when the President didn't know what to withdraw.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u241	No, no, no, no. Well, to the point, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u242	This is a terrible ridiculous thing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u243	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u244	Mr. Puy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u245	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u246	...it's cool, opts for Parliament's presidency. I encourage him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u247	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u248	Since the secretary general didn't want to, at least the president. [[Applause]] You can say without any evidence that we are funded by Venezuela and, on the other hand, to a party, which Mr. Soria has with the roles of Panama, Mr. Rato, Mr. Bárcenas, Mr. Lapuerta, Mr. Aznar and Mrs. Rita Barberá, can't be called the party of fraud or the party of corruption. Well, very democratic, yes, sir. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And neither can we... yes, it has much to do with it, Mr. Fariñas, thanks for stepping on the following argument. [[Mr. Farinas Sobrino utters words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u249	That's the point, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u250	It has a lot to do with it. We won't be able to call you the turn door match either, will we? Because we'll have the expression removed too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u251	To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u252	There's no evidence that any former minister or former high office of the People's Party would end up working in Endesa, Natural Gas or Iberdrola. It was probably also for his merits and his knowledge in the energy sector. Of course, Mr Aznar is an expert in the energy sector. And Mr. Aznar has no relationship with Saudi Arabia, which is a very democratic country, much more than Venezuela. Yes, sir, Saudi Arabia is the democratic model for the People's Party. Of course you do! That cannot be said in this Parliament either. Venezuela... is absolute evil; Saudi Arabia is coming very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the King, Mr. Juan Carlos, can do millionaire business in Saudi Arabia at the expense of all and here nothing happens. You can't say either. The rotational doors, of course, because the rotational doors and the business of large electric companies are also behind the political decisions that are made. Because it could be opted for the energy sector to benefit most, to have a price of competitive electricity, even to provide employment... it could even be used for these years of crisis in this country if the drama of unemployment and emigration were to be tackled if political decisions were made that were simply made since honesty. [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is clear that the political decisions of the People's Party paralysed a sector in Galicia that during the years of the crisis could have been creating jobs and wealth. And there were political decisions at various levels: first, the arrival and illegal suspension of the previous Government's invitation to tender; decision of illegal suspension by deviation of power and decision qualified by the Supreme Court as illegitimate. That caused him to start again with a new tender; that was also, by a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, retrofitted to the evaluation phase, which means putting the wind sector in a legal labyrinth that has no exit, it has no exit! The decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia means that all offers must be reassessed to the K coefficient and, therefore, it also opens the door to the remedies of all or not adjudicate companies, and still above it is to see that it can be reassessed according to the criteria related to the wind decree. Because there's a new electrical legislation and therefore it's not allowed to evaluate industrial projects associated with the wind sector. It's a labyrinth with no exit. We've said that the model of the contest is dead; even without this sentence it was dead, it's impossible, you won't move a megawatt with the wind competition. We need to open a new time, we need to open a new regulation that allows production to be done decentralizedly, in the hands of people, in the hands of small businesses, in the hands of small producers, and that it can come up with a model of wind production without having to depend on premiums. That exists and that, paradoxically, cannot be done in this country. There's a company that's been banned from making wind power installations for not being in the contest. So what we're saying is that we give the model of the wind competition, which has paralysed the sector, and that we work for a regulatory framework that allows the development of wind energy. Clearly, the model of the competition, neither one nor the other, seemed to us the best for this country. In this country, 76% of the megawatts that produced are from outside companies, are from foreign companies. We believe that the energy produced by the wind in Galicia must bring the benefits to its people and not to foreign companies. There is no will on the part of the People's Party, who continues to insist on prolonging the lie by saying that the contest continues ahead. It's a lie, Law 8/2009 has been amended a year and a half ago, promising that it would be decisive for the installation of megawatts of the wind competition to be reactivated. Zero megawatts, none will be installed. Another thing is authorizations that don't cost anything; you can authorize but you don't install a megawatt, and that's what they're saying even by the law firms themselves. Therefore, to rely on this model is simply to extend the lie with two reasons: the electoral motive and the reason for continuing to cover an opportunity for people to take off the hands and the sparks of Natural Gas, Iberdrola and Endesa, who do not want for anything in the world that opens up the democratization of the energy sector because it would, especially in places like Galicia, be a massive fugitive from customers. And not to mention what could open up possibilities for, for example, agricultural holdings or rural communities, as is already being done in many European countries, including Catalonia, Portugal and Italy, where there are even small Greek companies investing in the south of Italy because they cannot here. Or in Denmark, Germany, etc. What we simply want with this initiative is that, that we leave the big lie of the Feijóo wind competition, that we abandon and that we work for a viable and profitable model for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u253	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u254	The Joint Group will support this non-law proposal because we believe that we are losing, because of the energy policies of the People's Party, a great opportunity to turn our country into a great energy power. The EU 2020 guidelines set the reduction in emissions by 20% and an increase by 20% in renewable energy production and energy efficiency. Both Galicia and the state have a very difficult task to meet if they don't change energy policy, just as they have very difficult to end corruption if they don't change the Government of the People's Party. The energy problem is closely related to corruption and the global challenges facing the world; corruption, because as long as it does not end the turning doors, it will be impossible to establish a proper energy policy that is conducive to the interests of citizenship; and global challenges, because they are related to social progress, the right to energy, the reduction of poverty, environmental degradation, climate change, food security and the need of the energy industry to provide affordable energy. Climate change and energy policies are inevitably united; two-thirds of emissions come from the energy we use. But it seems that Galliza is walking in the opposite direction. The Greek wind sector was the one that most contributed to the electricity system from 2006 to 2010, according to the data from Red Electric. As time passed, the Greek wind sector stagnated, while Castile-Leon or Andalusia experienced unprecedented growth. The government's friendly handkerchiefs in Madrid with the elimination of renewables in 2012 did nothing but increase the paralysis of the wind sector in Galicia. But despite Minister Soria and his reform to favor the scam of the tariff deficit, there is a huge difference between the evolution of the wind sector in Galicia and other communities. The difference is marked by the paralysis of the wind competition set in motion by the Government of Nuñez Feizo. The result was that the action of the Union, together with that of Minister Soria, paralyzed the wind sector in Galicia. The Board had already contemplated the payment of damages and damages for the expenses that resulted in the annulment of the wind competition to companies. The High Court of Justice of Galicia, as the rapporteur of AGE said, has just failed in favour of a claim by Portuguese EDP for EUR 500,000. It's more than possible that other resolutions fall in that same sense because there are more prejudiced firms that are in previous legal phases. Besides, electrical self-consumption is still an exception. From the sector, the big wind and power companies are accused of halting a process that is already common in central Europe, with less power installed by apparatus than Galicia, but more generators and more owners. Farms, industries, sports complexes, hotels, golf courses are often equipped with a small wind generator and solar plates that guarantee the provision of self-consumption with levels above 70%, maintaining a connection to the electrical network to be supplied only if necessary and without necessarily counting evacuation routes. Current regulations do not benefit from the advance of renewable energies, despite their potential to alleviate the high dependence on fossil fuels, which are increasingly expensive and tend to run out. The technological innovation of renewables makes them more efficient and competitive, but the lack of an adequate regulatory framework condemns them to remain frozen. But in addition to wind energy, we can also talk about the great capacity that Galicia has in producing solar energy. The solar-radiation atlas in Galicia identifies the Low Rías as the Galician zone with the greatest potential for solar energy development. The study identifies the coast of Pontevedra as one of the most sunny of the Peninsula; it only has 20% less radiation than the most sunny areas of the state. Or the geothermal capacity in Galicia, which is set at 500,000 tonnes equivalent of oil. Galicia has excellent qualities for the production of this energy, especially in the provinces of Ourense and Pontevedra. We can also talk about biomass produced thanks to the remnants of wildlife activities; remnants, not energy crops, and in addition to this way we could also carry forward an effective fire prevention policy that also generates wealth and energy production. In short, Galicia has wind, residual organic matter and subsoil that can turn it into a true energy power and into an improved territory for the production of self-consumption energy. We have only one thing left to do: to keep the People's Party from ruling. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u256	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. From the Parliamentary Group of the BNG we will support this initiative of Alternative Glaga de Left. We understand that it goes on the line of what we've been taking over these years, or during these two legislates, denouncing, that Mr. Feijóo's wind competition was a failure, which was sold as a big industrial plan for Galicia and that now, six years later, we can see its consequences. I wanted to start with a little reflection, as Mr. Sánchez did, about what energy means. I actually understood what really is the word "oligopolie" by analyzing the electrical sector, analyzing how, for the interests of an absolutely profit account, it privatizes energy and seeks the highest energy yield. I think it's almost a blessing that Mr. Soria would be out. The damage to renewables, the damage that this minister did to self-consumption can only be assessed years later, just as it does to the wind sector. One thing we should look at is why an wind competition is eliminated based on public participation, participation and performance for the Galician Government, and therefore for all the Greeks and Greeks, of that public participation, by a model based on the canon and which, in addition, as it is then collected in the law of the electricity sector itself, can be reverted to the citizenship itself. I mean, that's right now there, and at any point in the bill of light, for example, Galicia, because you're a producer and surplus energy, you can be obliged to have people themselves, citizenship, who have to take that payment in their own receipt of the wind cannon's light. But, anyway, just a date. I want to remember that when Feijóo arrived at the Government we were, of installed power, the seconds of the state, only surpassed by Castile-A Mancha. And at this moment we descend in such a way that we are overcome by Castela-León, Castile-A Mancha and Andalusia. From quarters, with a total paron in 2015, which was a completely harmful year for the energy sector. In fact, the employer himself speaks of this year as the only one, the worst in history, where not even one megawatt is installed. So this situation is of paralysis of the wind sector, as they have just explained perfectly, and we have also asked the Government on repeated occasions, with a whole problem of different contradictory judgments leading to that paralysis, and in addition to a total paralysis in self-consumption. I mean, another of the issues that we've been discussing for the child in both the plenary and Commission 6th is what would mean that energy was more democratic; to democratize energy, a concept that seems overly abstract, but that I think it's going to be imposed. We're really going to a model that breaks with that oligopolie, that breaks with these rotating doors and makes a form of more democratic energy installation and that participates more in citizenship, from the rural houses – which were discussed earlier – from the agricultural farms themselves, from different self-consumption projects to housing, that is, from the more democratic distribution, and not only from the distribution based on large companies, but also towards the energy distribution cooperatives. And all that did the law of the electricity sector in 2013 was paralyzing it, it was difficult, it was really trying to make energy not a public-use asset, but rather, as defined in the law itself, a priority economic activity. For, against this priority economic activity, we must go towards a different model of energy. The public participation of the Bipartite model was a first step, probably with its mistakes, but a first step. What Feijóo did, by political sectarianism, was to derogate him, to install this new wind competition which was a big fiasco. I just want to remember – and to avoid confusion, let me read it – that what they promised at the time was 6. billion euros of investment and 13,266 jobs. What's there is absolutely nothing. The big fiasco in the energy sector is Feijóo's wind competition. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u258	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is this afternoon we attended a session with which I think Ionesco and his absurd theatre would not get any further. I formally ask the President of Parliament and the spokesman – who at this time is not – of the People's Party who, in case they withdraw some expression I say in my intervention, please tell me what it is, because if not, they create an internal emotional conflict that the truth costs me sometimes to resist. So I'd like that, when you remove some expression with which you consider the opposition's voices to disturb the sensitive ear of the People's Party, at least if you tell us what it is to be able to make purpose of amendment and not repeat it again; even if it's only for that. For now, none; for now everything is within orthodoxy. [[Murmurs.]] [[Laughter]] Well, then let's go now, yes, to the initiative of Alternative Left-Galga. I don't think I've been here for a few years, and I've never seen anything like it. That if an expression had been removed without those who had been able to repeat what expression it had withdrawn, it means that we go back to the borders of scientific knowledge, as I say, from time to time. Exactly like that, it was exactly like that. I don't know, Mrs. Oubina, if you have a lot of retention memory, but, of course, who was exercising the presidency at that time was unable to say what he was withdrawing, and it seems that whoever knew it was the spokesperson for the People's Party, who was seen to say it via telephone. That's exactly what we saw in this plenary. So, man, it would be fine a little... at least a little dignity; fair, it doesn't take much, but some. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we're going exactly to the wind, the renewables, the fall of the horse, the way of Damascus, Mr. Arias Cañete as Commissioner for Climate Change in Brussels, I suppose he's going between travelling to Panama and traveling to Panama—of a bridesmaid, I mean, uh!—and, of course, defending in an absolutely radical manner a frontal struggle against climate change and for an economy and a decarbonized energy. [[Laughter]] It's a pity he didn't take Panama with him, or the honeymoon, as he would prefer, Mr. Rajoy's cousin, who wasn't able to predict with a minimum accuracy, in the short term, the climatic evolution of the city of Seville. Of course, we don't believe it, frankly. I think we're still in the publicity and propaganda department of the People's Party and, undoubtedly, this People's Party, which in some things looks a lot at certain countries governed on the right in Europe as well, others don't see anything at all. I ask you, please, that they look or look until yesterday, because it is true that yesterday Mr. Margallo let us say that he surprised us all with his "four peoples" who passed through austerity... Please, please tell the President of the Council of Galicia, because, if it is true... - Would it not be possible? [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. - If that's true... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u259	Quiet, please. No, let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u260	I'm willing to interact, I'm an open person... [[Murmurs.]] Well, I say that if there were four peoples the 4.7% deficit in the Government of Spain, I would like to know how many peoples is the nonsense of Mr Feijóo's zero deficit. That's what you, instead of talking about, I don't know what, ladies spokespersons would have to tell us. If four peoples are 4%, the zero deficit, how many peoples are? Do I tell you the people that they are? They are cuts in health care, education, social services, dependency and scholarships. They are exactly those people. [[Applause]] Those villages that seem to bother you so much are the people that Mr. Feijóo's government has passed so that it can go to the Palace Hotel and say that it's a genius of public finances. They don't like to hear it, but it's exactly like that. [[Murmurs.]] Indeed, we will support this initiative. The results of the electrics are there. Those of Endesa have even been published today. Not bad, 10% increase in profits, considering that the IPC is practically zero and that the gross domestic product has grown by 3%. I think it's not wrong. Among other things, Spanish electricity will increase by 25% of dividends to 2017, Endesa has increased dividends by 5.3% this year, Natural-Fenosa Gas, 5.6% and Iberdrola, by 4.6%. Mr. Sánchez Galán is a little more austere, apparently. And indeed, it is this context of energy policy, of benefiting the large companies of Unesa, which leads, first, to block renewables in Spain and to which Mr Feijóo, so concerned by the zero deficit, was not able to defend a strategic pointer sector for the economy of Galicia, both in energy production and in industrial fabric, and to which, unfortunately, as the previous speakers said, those 14,000 jobs and 6 billion euros are literally volatile. And the proof that they are volatile is that on the fourth day of this month of May the president of Fenosa, Mr. Salvador Gabarró, said that there would be no new generation of energy in Spain, even though Fenosa...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u262	...have adjudicated 294 wind megawatts in Galicia, authorized. They're part of Mr. Conde's authorized account, but they're not going to be built until at least 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u264	So you continue with your peoples, with your four peoples, with your cuts, with your zero deficit, and, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u266	...in the last EPA the number of homes in which there is no income...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u267	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u268	...is the greatest of Galician history.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u269	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u270	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the parties are related to everything; everything is related to everything. In other words, that is true, what happens is that we were discussing a non-law proposal here today that said that an interim ruling at first instance was going to paralyze the entire wind competition, the current one; it was theoretically the subject. That, plus an addition that, well, there is also a need to boost the solar industry. Kind of says that. That's what I was saying, what I read. However, when we got here, because we started talking... at last, things have been talked about that, truth..., distribution, times, content, etc. This very subject we saw in committee, we saw it in committee before, very specifically one day. So, what exactly does this topic consist of? As you will remember, once he came here and we systematically treat the whole wind set. Is it legal or illegal? The other day there was a Supreme Court ruling saying it was legal; that is, it is legal, as much as we speak again, no such evidence can be denied. It is a firm judgment already, ultimately, of the Supreme Court. It's legal. Second, why can't it be legal? And there was a sentence here from a company that says... I, the truth is, I was respectful, listening to everything. [[Murmurs.]] I didn't like it, it seemed incoherent, time contempt, rhetorically deficient, but, at last, I heard it... Well, I have my preferences, not all the same; at last, one likes more than others, but, well, sometimes... what we're going to do! [[Murmurs.]] They're personal things that have nothing to do with the subject. So, here's the question: it's all stopped, it's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u271	Quiet, please. Go ahead, Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u272	It's all stopped. Does it continue or does it not continue? The truth is that I have, as it were, a certain reluctance – which is the energy term that is said about energy – to say again the same thing that Mr. Conde systematically says: the amount of megawatts that are being processed, the amount of megawatts that have been installed..., all that is known. They don't take note, they don't know, they don't know. I mean, why are we going to say this if total doesn't have rational effects? It has no rational effect. So what do you say? So, look at you, I say it and I repeat it here again: simply a partial remedy on a process of processing a regulatory remedy does not paralyze anything, it is simply in judicial view and has no full scope. On the other hand, we can start making generic opinion debates; we can start with solar energy, for example. We already debate here again that anyone who wants, who has a house, can put solar facilities without paying anything. What... [[Mrs. Adam Villamarín speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u273	Please, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u274	What you can't do is connect it to the network and sell it, because it's an intermittent thing, etc. The issue of benefits. When benefits are made, Mr Losada, benefits must be given on invested capital, not evolution of capital. Because if you're losing or having a bad year, the quote has sunk you, your company is worth half, for example... –I'm sorry, let me finish. – And then it turns out that if you say: No, it's that last year was winning one and this year I earn 1.8; listen, it increased the benefit by 80%. And you say: This will barbaric us, transfer belt of the capital, etc. You say: Let's think about how much the IBEX was worth before the crisis, how much it was worth, when the PP arrived, how much it is worth now, what it is due to genuine recovery, what it is due to favors, etc. Let us all be a little more rigorous, because it is true that with the Socialist Party everything was fantastic: a record of job creation, a record of everything, absolutely everything! Why? Because he was in a giant bubble. I think we have to be a little more precise, gentlemen. For my part, you don't understand... I have a dilemma between accuracy and lack of education. I don't understand... I can't touch any other issues, because why are we going to discuss here other topics about general legal labelling or general policy, what is a party, what is not another party, whether I know that and not that I know more? I reiterate the fundamental idea of our position: the wind competition is legal, as the Supreme Court has shown; that process, processing. Parks are being approved, there are many that are already in operation and without subsidies. And thirdly, many others are recovering, like Cape Vilan, but you already know, that we are talking about this so many times. If you want to admit it, fine. I respect your political and rhetorical strategy and will not judge it. I don't know if it will work for them or not for them, but this, in any case, because of that kind of personal rhetorical coherence to say what things are, that they are verifiable, in any case, I think that the political strategy... I, who have the conception that the people are kind; it's smart...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u276	...but he's also kind; that is, he appreciates things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Somehow I have an naive, Roussian conception...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u277	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u278	... somehow, of the Illustration; I am contaminated by the Illustration. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u279	Thank you. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u280	Yes, the Illustration. He said in Tirano Banderas: "The mother country will be very great, but the samples sent to us here are well chinged." Well, if you're contaminated, the Illustration also takes little notice of you, Mr. Arias. [[Laughter]] Rigor, Mr Arias; rigor! [[Laughter]] How many megawatts were installed in the approved wind competition with most of the Popular Party, Mr. Arias? Zero. I'm telling you, zero, Mr. Arias. You don't take notes when Mr. Conde speaks, do you? Because he never says so, nor does Mr. Feijó. They don't answer this because they're zero. And, of course, zero megawatts are installed in Galicia is not that the sector is paralyzed, no, the quotation marks are still turning when it's winding; that's right, but when Mr Feijóo arrived to the Galician Government he was the leader in the installation of megawatts and in the last two years – and it's going to be the third – zero megawatts installed in Galicia, not from the contest, but zero megawatts in Galicia. But you can't say you're paralyzed because that's not strict. And you just cited me as a Supreme Court ruling that the invitation to tender is legal. That's not true, Mr. Arias; that's not strict, Mr. Arias. What is true is that there is a Supreme Court ruling that declares the suspension of the previous wind invitation to tender illegal due to a deviation of power. That's true, I strictly tell you, Mr. Arias, understand? And instead of coming here and arguing, because the sector is paralyzed, – and I have it demonstrated with arguments, Mr. Arias; I have it demonstrated with arguments – you could say what they're planning to do to stop it from being paralyzed. But of course, you've also preferred the illustration of saying nothing, because you have no solution for this because you're not interested in it and because you're defending other interests. I've always said here that I don't call you fools. It's no matter of being more or less intelligent, it's a question that you don't want; and you don't want the future for this country, you'd rather work for Natural Gas, for Endesa, for Iberdrola, and for Mr. Soria too, who was an honest lord in rigour, too, too, honest, with untrusionable ethics, and who never told a lie like Mr. Arias Cañete, Mr. Rodríguez Rato, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u281	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García and three other Members, on the amendment by the Government of Greece of the transitional provision fourth of the Law 2/2016, of the 10th of February, of the ground of Galicia, with the incorporation of the soil of rural nucleus
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u282	No amendments were tabled. Mr. García has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u283	Thank you, President. We brought this initiative, which is very simple and very easy, because in the previous regulations, in the old Law of the ground, in the Louga, it was a transitional provision that was – I think I remember – the first one, which regulated the regime of installations for agricultural activity and which were located both in rustic soil and in rural nuclei. This transitional provision guarantees that such existing installations prior to that law and located in rural or rustic cores could maintain their activity as they had been doing, as could be the work of conservation and reform, and even expansions of up to 50% of their original volume. What was this transitional provision supposed to mean? Easy. I had a clear philosophy, based, from my point of view, on three basic concepts: going towards a necessary ordination – that no one puts into doubt – of our rural, so that the concept of rural core, the concept – for which we are not legalists – of the village, or traditionally of the village, had a predominantly residential use, which we also agree with, and in which we all agree on that trend, but above all it provided a premise for us basic. It was obvious that, although we coincided with that residential use, this provision was clear and admitted to something that, as I said before, is fundamental, that it was the starting point and the existing reality. Part of a reality: that Galician rural was quite different from Mancha's countryside and that therefore there was a different way to legislate: the traditional concept of village as a rural nucleus, where it lived for centuries the residential use, but which was strongly intertwined, strongly mixed, with the buildings dedicated to agricultural and livestock activities. And that mix and cohabitation, with different incidences, came pervading over many centuries and was still in full vigil – as we think it is still in force –. And since this was so clear, there was also the last – for us – of the basic premises: that there was a vocation of clear protection for those existing farms and that, therefore, what was not intended or could not be done with the entry into force of the new law, of the new philosophy – in which we all agreed – was to impose a prejudice on them, so that that transitional provision was born. Indeed, even the ESC itself qualified it, in the allegations it made to this new legislation, as a provision which provided practicality, and I believe that it qualifies as a peacemaker. I think it has ultimately proved useful. We therefore find it very difficult to understand, from this group, which can be the reasons for changing something that has been operating with total normality, which has actually contributed to peacemaking and bringing those uses together where they are coming, which has undoubtedly given thousands of farms without problems and without traumas and has also managed – because it has not hindered, by being talking only about existing exploitations – progressively and peacefully going about rural nuclei for purely residential use. Therefore, we find it incomprehensible that in the new law, Law 2/2016, the PP moved the old first tenth provision, which now comes to be the fourth provision of the new law, but excluding from that provision and that transitory, therefore, the rural core, and therefore only by covering under that transitory the farms located in rustic soil. And I repeat that we cannot understand it or, of course, share it, in addition to giving security to those affected both urbanly and – which is no less important and we have already expressed it – in certain respects, as it was implicit in maintaining that activity as it had already been done, that it was essential for us. Why does the government mess up in this mess? For it is the question of the million, which has undoubtedly caught up in the last few months, from the adoption of the law to today, many files even of enlargement to accommodate their own plans of improvement, and we all have mayors and municipalities where there are files trapped because of, precisely, the adoption of this law. And now this same government is trying, through an instruction – which has not yet been published, but which seems to be going to be published in the next few days – to rectify that position. How easy it was to leave it as it was! If what we want is rectification, the easiest thing was to have her as she was. Through that instruction, in a chatted and caught with many clamps, he tries to say what he already said clearly and simply the transitional arrangement. Wouldn't it therefore be easier and more logical to resume the previous writing and leave it as it was, because I think it was quite clearer and it was quite better? Is that the way it is, or do you want to correct it? Because the instruction comes to say – and I read textually – that "the soil of the rural nucleus is not included in the scope of the fourth transitional provision of Law 2/2016 cannot, in any way, be interpreted as a legal prohibition that farms and rural core soil can maintain their activity," and says that to that end this instruction is said. I mean, it's rectifying, just like we said. It would be easier to put the writing that existed, I understand. And he also says in his own resolution that it doesn't have to be like this: "The reason to establish only the transitional regime for farms located in rustic soil..." So this soil is what constitutes the interest of the autonomous object and, consequently, it must be regulated globally, while rural core regulation enters within the competences of each municipality. Okay, I don't know why it has to be that way, but anyway, it's okay. But two paragraphs below says: The law itself – the same law that you said before it could only regulate the rustic soil because the rural nucleus corresponded to the municipalities – in Article 281(E), prohibits the new gainful installations in rural core soils. I mean, does rural core soil determinate the municipalities or does it not be determined by the municipalities? For some things it is determined by the municipalities and for others it is not determined by the municipalities? He's looking for an argument, following different vericuetes – it's true that he had to take some work to which he wrote it to fix the mess that was all about – to justify that if he actually unlocks this situation and, therefore, we can get to where we had to get from the first time if we left the editorial as it was, which is what I don't get clear. Do we want the situation to continue as it was, or do we want to change it? It's not clear. It's not clear. If the instruction serves – because it is important – to highlight the immediate problem we have in these months, that we have many winners and many exploits with a plan of improvement trapped by this law, and this instruction serves to unlock, welcome! Now, it's not the solution. So we continue to insist that the law should be amended and returned to the drafting that existed before. It may actually serve to get us out of the monumental Lio for these two, three or four months, to save this ball of game, because if not many mayors have to tell them that they can't be licensed, but, in any case, from our point of view, it doesn't solve the problem. And obviously it doesn't solve the problem because it's very difficult for the instruction to say something clearly and without any doubt, and therefore with all the legal certainty that deserves the matter, something that the law doesn't say. So, of course, it's the square of the circle that PP has us used to, and it's true that here in the initiative maybe always the circle, but then, in reality, it's not. So, I think it's time – under our point of view, I repeat – if you circulate it, the instruction, serves to unlock this subject for these three months, welcome, so that is, we're going to get a problem from above to many municipalities, to many mayors, and, above all, most importantly, to many gainors who at this time are what he needed, but, in any case, we have to go to a change of law. And that I think it has to be our clear position, so let's say. We support the amendment of the law that was needed to solve the Citroën problem. We believe, as a Parliamentary Group, that this problem and the agricultural sector are no less important than Citroën. We therefore consider it equally necessary to amend the law if necessary. And we have made it clear – and to the facts we refer ourselves – that it is necessary to modify that law. It is true that it is shameful, it is true that it was a law that had to be changed even before it came into force, it is true that even now the State sees certain articles unconstitutional, but we will have to face the reality of the problem. And ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, gentlemen of the Government, why is this happening to them? It's all because you want to do things yourself, as always. Because being of the PP – as one of the spokespersons of the Popular Group always says here – is to be of the majority group of this House, no doubt, but it is not to be neither infallible nor always to be right, it is not, in itself, to be smarter than the rest. So if everyone was involved, if they were to participate and if they heard, because they now want to rectify their initial position... What I wanted was for the PP spokesman to tell me clearly here, because if not, he defends it. I mean, do you clearly want the municipalities to determine what the rural core has to do and whether there can be farms or no farms? Do you want that model? Yes or no? What they can't do is one thing and the opposite. From our point of view, the transitional arrangement was well enough to give us that legal certainty and get us out of this mess. If you've gotten into this lion, what you have to explain to us is why. And if they want to get out of it, don't do it in a way that way with that instruction. I repeat, welcome for these two months, but let's go to a clear amendment to the Law of the Land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u284	Thank you, Mr. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u285	Thank you, President. We will support this non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Party, and I believe that this support needs no explanation, since it is essential to revitalize, or at least stop, the desertification of rural areas and promote the development of agricultural activity. What this transitional provision said, so in summary, is that the constructions and installations in rustic soil that are intended for activities linked to the exploitation and support of the agricultural and forestry first-processing farm activity, can maintain their activity. It was clear, it was clear. There was a clear decision: they can maintain their activity. And in point 2 it says that conservation and reform works can be allowed in these buildings, as well as enlargements, where they maintain exploitation or support for forestry farming. Why would they strive to eliminate something that was so clearly established and that he had no doubt as to which were the rights and duties of each one. This initiative has already been discussed in committee, and it has opposed the People's Party, claiming that Law 2/2006, of Galician soil, does not prohibit such installations, but only permits depend solely on the municipalities. But the truth is, it's not the same thing to be forbidden than to be authorized and allowed. It's two different things. You can put the issues in an allusivity is in an anomaly that doesn't make sense, when the regulations were really very clear. Agricultural activity, like any other economic activity, requires regulatory regulation to cover it and gives it the legal security it needs to make investments. Indeed, I agree with the Socialist Party that the current wording of the Law on the ground does not offer such legal certainty and seriously harms the already excessively punished exploitations of Greek farmers. Now the decision will depend on the municipalities, which, on the other hand, are becoming one of the great problems of rural yellow. The catastrophic review in Galicia will have an important impact on the real estate of rural areas: farms, warehouses, greenhouses and ships will start to pay IBI. The dealer identifies and values the goods, and the municipalities apply the corresponding taxes. An alliance of the Administration against rural development; a punishment for our agriculture, a punishment for the dairy sector. Cuts, alpendres or greenhouses, which were exempt, will have to pay the contribution. The review of the catastrophes is being used by the municipalities to increase their income, thus moving their financing problems to the population, with special impact of the most vulnerable people and of small gainful farms. So it's about starting to change the policies that punish our agriculture, which is already quite punished; which is in a very delicate situation, as we have seen in the dairy sector. It's about not putting any more financial charges, and it's about betting and giving you that legal security so they can make their investments. The news there, the news of the dead cows a few days ago in the press, reveals a really alarming situation, where you can't keep pulling the blanket. We have to legislate to support rural development, and of course it's not what the People's Party does. I don't understand this opposition to making it clear what are the rights there are and what is the problem that these installations are in rustic soil, because that's where they have to be. So all right, I'm done. I support this initiative, but I understand that the People's Party will again fail the livestock and the livestock; it will fail again in the German countryside, voting against this initiative. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u287	The things as they are, this is a matter where we did not present the amendment during the land law process, so in that case we too were placed because we interpreted that, as it was drafted, it gave solution to the gainful holdings. As the law in force is drafted, what it says is that it will depend on the planning of each council; therefore, it seemed to us that it was sufficiently collected. It is true that, at the initiative of the Socialist Party, we have already said in the committee that we supported it because we believe it gives more assurances and because we have begun to see the details that, of course, there are many of the municipalities that do not even have subsidiary rules, others that have rules, others that are not planned, so there could indeed be specific cases of exploitation which, being in rural areas, could not have an extension. That is why we need to find a solution. That is why we will support this initiative. It also seems to us that the training of counseling is not the solution. And it's not the solution because it doesn't provide legal security to the municipalities. So whoever has to pass certain issues is going to have to interpret the law and not an instruction, so it's not the solution. The solution is this, because we believe that they are at stake, even if it is a small number of enlargements or farms that may be affected, and as the picture stands, our obligation is to ensure that it is so. In addition, given that it will not be any problem of landscape impact, of impact on the cores, because unfortunately what is missing are gainful holdings and expansion of gainful holdings. So, just say that, I'm not going to talk about any more questions. We hope that a solution will be given; a solution that must be given if we agree on the fundamentals, and that it must be a policy solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u288	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u289	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm going to start by making two statements. One, which we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. And second, that we, the Galician Nationalist Bloc, have tabled amendments to this particular point, indeed, not because we are more visionary than the rest of the groups, but because we were the ones who best heard in the non-permanent Commission that was formed in this Parliament specifically in January, February and March 2014, in which many people appeared representing different entities and organizations that have to do with both urbanism and land planning, and with agricultural and rural development, what they had to tell us in this respect, what they had to say about the initial drafting with which this preliminary draft came here at that time. The Government did not listen and therefore did not modify the bill which it finally referred to. In fact, there is now a situation derived from that deafness... I don't know if you can tell. Autism, no, deafness the same, we try. Looks like it does. There's a situation arising from that deaf political situation that the People's Party has, and they're beginning to see the consequences. Indeed – as has already been said, I will not repeat many arguments – counseling does not solve the problem because, in fact, there is still a standard of legal rank that does not adequately clarify the situation. And in that sense, I have to remind you of a statement made in this committee by an agricultural engineer with extensive experience in rural areas, essentially – according to which he told us – in the mountain and agricultural areas of Lugo province, who expressly asked us to make a legislative effort to establish specific definitions, not to leave precisely the discretion and the scope of the interpretation of technicians or municipalities, nor to have to draw the Board permanently clarifying instructions on this matter. He specifically spoke of the definitions of rural nuclei, and he specifically spoke of the discrimination – basically for agricultural activity – that touches you on the lottery that your exploitation falls into the rural core or that falls into rustic soil, and that kind of circumstance. To conclude, I have to say that this issue that we are debating today is not just a debate about a standard of territorial or urban management. What we are discussing here right now is the functionality or usefulness that the People's Party gives to the rural environment, agriculture and rural development. Because in this same Commission another person – in this case the representative of a professional agricultural organization – said that, if some of the proposals were not substantially modified in relation to rural nuclei and agricultural and livestock activity in rural areas, they were turning villages into a kind of theme park or simply a nice place to live the urban areas, but free from farming and gain activity. And so we can see how, for example, in article 25 of this law which proposes to modify in its transitional provision, it already establishes that the fundamental use of rural nuclei is residential use; and that besides there may be tertiary, productive, tourist or craft uses. But Article 26 specifically prohibits new installations for gainful installations, which from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block is a genuine aberration, because, if there is no productive activity in the rural environment, it hardly makes sense even the existence of rural nuclei and, of course, they can hardly sustain rural nuclei. I commend all Members and Members – if I may – to read carefully the appearance you made in that Committee that I mentioned the representative of the Official College of Agronoms of Galicia – I believe that it was January 21, 2014 – which is highly illustrative of the lack of knowledge and of the disgust with which the People's Party is dealing with the rural environment. Because all of this is being discussed here today, all the problems that are occurring – including aid derivatives for improvements in agricultural holdings that are being detected, etc. –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u290	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u291	...that this man was predicting them in 2014. You, with most of them, didn't want to hear it, and those dusts, these muds. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a shame we haven't had more time to debate about it. Mrs. Peace, I can't beat you right now if you have tabled an amendment to the law or not. I don't think so, because I don't think this has been discussed. If you say so, I don't want to take it against you, but it doesn't sound to me that you've been talking about this. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Look, you just said... yes, yes, yes, one thing is debates and another is amendments, please. [[Mrs. Paz Franco utters words that are not perceived.]] Look, you just said exactly what I wanted. Which depends a lot... what that technician said to show up in that committee, the lottery of playing a farm in the countryside or in the rustic soil. Precisely, in order to avoid this lottery, it depends on the municipality's nuclei to which it considers it appropriate for agricultural installations to be able to expand. Not only 50%, why 50%, if at best they want to expand 100%, 200% or as far as land is concerned? And that's going to allow it in the city council's core orders, the council's competence. Depending on the type of nucleus, because not all nuclei or all villages, Mr. Garcia, are equal; not all. So it's a core sorting. Too bad I wasn't. I don't know if you've listened to or not, or been – I don't know – in the Commission where the secretary general of Urbanism came up with a request that asked questions that his partner, the spokesman for urbanism, explained to him clariño and meridian. And the circular, by the way, published yesterday in the Official Journal of Galicia, comes to refer the same thing, in case someone hadn't made it clear. There's only two possibilities here. An agricultural holding, either in a rural core or in a rustic soil. Have the county the regulations you have. Even if you don't have a general plan or any kind of regulation. He was speaking here, Mr. Sánchez. If there's no rules, that's just rustic. So you're left as you were in the previous law: you can expand 50% without any kind of problem. And even if it allows, because it is not in special protection systems, it can expand what it considers appropriate. If it's inside the nucleus, first of all, you put it on your initiative that are out of order. Nowhere! If one of the things that this law eliminates, precisely, are the things out of order. There's no activity left out of order, none! None of those who are currently working are prohibited; they are banned – just as it had forbidden the previous law – new ones. New ones, they're not enlargements; one thing is enlargement and another is a new exploitation. And within the new farms, if small artisanal farms are allowed, which were not allowed before – in the cores we're talking about – and also self-consumption farms, that if they were allowed already in the Louga, in the previous law. Therefore, there is no change in that direction. The only change in competition, which happens to the municipality, is whether to decide which cores are going to or not allow enlargements, and how much more will be allowed for these enlargements! If there are no regulations, because it is said here, is it in those municipalities where there are no outdated regulations or subsidiary rules? If there are no regulations and there is no planning, it's only rustic, unless there's any kernel delimitation; because if there's individual kernel delimitations, there's a regulation and an ordinance that regulates them. And that regulation and that ordinance that regulates those delimited nuclei – sometimes loose – in small municipalities or municipalities that have no plans or have nothing, that ordinance is the one that regulates, and it has to regulate and say whether it will allow the expansion of these activities or not; it is in the hands of the municipality. So we do not limit competences to municipalities, but if we give competences to municipalities, which is very different. They give them skills, why? because we understand that in the rural core, just like in the urban soil – they have a similar consideration – it must be the council that should order these cores. But it's not forbidden, they're not out of order. Nothing at all! None of that, on the contrary! It's more, there's more facilities. They used to demand 5,000 meters to have an activity and agrarian exploitation, and now 2,000. In that, there were amendments, to say that they would follow the 5,000 meters. In this, there were amendments, including the Socialist Party and the other groups. And the distances from agricultural holdings, including news, housing, or installations to population centres, have been reduced to half, from installations with their own surface and those with no surface. What's their name? Now my name doesn't come out, these facilities, those that have no territorial support, the distances go from 1,000 to 500 meters, and those that have territorial support, the territorial base, they go from 200 to 100, excluding their own housing. He had to be 200 meters away from his own home, and that's changed. And the instruction you come to – it was also in collaboration with the College of Secretaries – is to clarify doubts that especially some collectives and some parties have struggled to say. Just as it was in the Water Law, what they said was that we were wells -- remember? -- we had to put counters. Do you remember that? Does anyone know a well... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u295	...of a village with counters? That's the same thing for them. The only thing they should do right now – we should all be – is inform the municipalities that in some cases they may have to make a change in the regulations. That's right, from the order that regulates the nucleus, because maybe it forbids it. Then you must make that change to set the zoom level that should be done. And the instruction to which you come is to clarify – if there were any doubts, that was clear from the very first moment – this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u296	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u297	What is not forbidden, Mrs. Martínez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u298	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u299	...allowed. At least I was taught that in a democratic country, which is not prohibited, is allowed. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u300	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u301	Thank you, President. Mr. Castineira, I've already told you that this is probably everything. As I'm often told in my village, look, boy, this isn't Parliament. It's all right here, Mr. Castineira. The problem is very clear, and I think you've read it quite a bit. Does this instruction mean that everything remains as it was? Don't you? You mean yes or no? You want to go back to your former situation, yes or no? Do you want those farms in the villages to continue their activity as they're doing, to increase by 50 percent and to do better works? Do you want to go back to that situation, yes or no? And if the other writing made it very clear and we have to do all this bullshit...! No resolution required for the other one, no instruction required. So I think it was easier to go back to the other instruction. So if we want to go back to the situation we had, we'll have to change the law. Because, for a lot of jokes to be made – and I'm talking about it and I'm looking for it, because it's a very proper meaning, look it up afterwards – if we want to get back to it, it doesn't take all this bullshit. And if this talk is all wrong, then we're fooling the mayors that we're now telling them and you're calling them: pull them forward, that with this resolution you can do it, and we're putting them in a mess. And we're messing with who's making the investments and who's going to make enlargements. Maybe the neighbor's report tomorrow and he couldn't do it. So what I ask them to do is to be clear, and I think they're not being. Of course, not all villages are the same. Starting from the basis that I don't agree with you, we can't move that – and the other law had it very clear – that agricultural holdings were a priority, it was something that existed in villages. We're not talking about circuses, we're not talking about a strange thing, we're talking about agricultural farms that existed in all villages – or in many villages – and where they had to be able to stay, whoever the county was and what the county said. I don't want to leave that to any mayor, who has five votes there, and maybe there's a farm and only one vote, and the five want me to close the farm, that nucleus can't have farms. I don't want that. Do you want that, Mr. Castineira? No, no, that's a very clear situation, we see it every day – I don't know in their villages, in my villages. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, it's not Parliament there. In Parliament we perfectly fit the circle, we fall everything. And the circular says one thing and the opposite. You started by saying that the law didn't change anything, but that the law clarified the circular. What are we left with, if the law itself removes its powers? Where does that come from that gives powers to the municipalities? You'll give them to certain things. The law itself forbids them, for example, to build new ones, which I agree with, which I agree with. But if the law itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u302	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u303	...prohibits new construction, the law itself can allow existing ones to continue to exist, or not? Why do you have to give that competition to the municipalities? There's no reason. Look, Mr. Castineira, they've kicked it to the bottom, pull it out as soon as possible. The problem is he's not right. If you want to say that it was the guilt of the Socialist Party, I blame myself, and the guilt that this had come out was the Socialist Party, but it's the solution. And I repeat, if Citroën's is important – and this group has supported the amendment of the law – for us this is equally important...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u304	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u305	...and we're going to be the same or more belligerent. Not for you, and you'll have to explain it to the mayors there. They're messing with all the mayors with this shit.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u306	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u307	...and many – I wish they were the least possible – applicants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u308	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u309	Rectify as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u310	We moved on to the next non-law proposal. You got it. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the defence of the Galician Union before the State and Community authorities of the revision of the current system of distribution of fishing quotas and the management of resources within the framework of the common agricultural policy, in order to resolve the situation generated by the application of the principle of relative stability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u311	They introduced all the amended groups to their non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u312	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we will all agree that one of the main challenges of the Greek fisheries sector is to achieve greater fishing opportunities for our professionals, under the common conviction that fishing quotas assigned to Galicia, which are usually assigned to Spain, are reduced and should be higher. And I say this because it is of no use to ensure that Europe has the most sustainable fishing in the world, if there are no ships left that can operate. That is why we want to keep the debate alive on a change in the European distribution model based on the existence of surplus fishing quotas; and I repeat, on the basis of the existence of fishing quotas left by some country. And of fleets, as is the case with the Welsh fleet, which needs more quotas to do the best we know, which is to keep fishing. And on this goal, he comes working for the Government and he comes working for the People's Group, as I'll try to explain. From the People's Group, we seek the support of this House's political forces, that is, the Galician Parliament, to call, through the Central and Self-Government, for the European Union to modify the current system of sharing fishing quotas. The current model, ladies and gentlemen, must be replaced – it is proven to be ineffective – by a new mechanism that allows the remaining fishing possibilities – I repeat, the remaining fishing opportunities – that are not fully exploited by some countries; that they can yield or transfer – I repeat, that they can yield or transfer – these remaining fishing quotas from some countries to fleets such as Galicia, which they need to continue their activity. Ladies and gentlemen, a recent study by the Vigo Shipowners' Cooperative, with the support of the Galician Union, examined different aspects of the incidence of the current allocation of fishing opportunities in Europe for the Galician fleet. After studying the 20 main species that have rates and quotas during the period 2008-2014, their conclusion was clear. At this stage, no more than one million tons – more than one million tons! – of quota allocated to member states of the European Union, with an estimated economic value exceeding 1,800 million euros. That's why it's clear that the current model is clearly failing, losing fishing opportunities for our fleet, for our sailors and also, as not!, for our shipowners. These data reinforce the need for change; they reinforce our efforts to achieve a fairer, more equanimous and competitive model, but above all that allows a much more effective, much more profitable use of our sea. That's why we want to put an end to the fact that every year there are remaining fishing quotas – and I repeat that of waste – that are not used, while there are countries, like ours, that could benefit them. The People's Group, and the fishing producers too, we agree that there is now a new opportunity to achieve this change -- a new path that has to do with the new philosophy applied by the European Union in justifying the ban on discards. In fact, there is a obvious contradiction. On the one hand, Europe is telling us that catches must be taken as a whole, to the extent that it forbids us to return accidental catches of species to the sea on which we have no quota; in this case, it prohibits discards. And on the other hand, we see how there are countries that do not take advantage of all their fishing opportunities. What is this initiative looking for? What is the Popular Group looking for? The People's Group seeks to articulate a system that puts an end to this imbalance in favour of our fishing; a mechanism through which the remaining fishing quotas may be allowed to be distributed between those fleets and countries that have already exhausted their quotas and now need additional quotas in order to continue fishing. In some ways, we would be putting an end to this so unjust principle called "relative stability", to that distribution model which Europe imposes, which forced a substantial part of our fleet to take on enormous sacrifices, closures and losses. Since the People's Party and since the Union has tried on many occasions to change the European system of sharing fishing quotas, both with political initiatives and with judicial initiatives, but both have never given the desired result. The political path has not advanced, because changing the system demands unanimity from member countries, and countries that are in favour of sharing are opposed to any change. The second, the legal procedure, too, has not advanced, because the Strasbourg Court has always rejected the various appeals which have been submitted with different arguments. Thus, it repeated the resources submitted in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2003. It is true that in recent years we have done what is impossible to increase the quotas within the corset that allows Europe. Since the People's Party is present at the tax and quota negotiating tables in Brussels, with the responsibility of the government in Madrid or the Sea Councillor present in the negotiating delegation, the fishing opportunities of our fleet have increased by more than 13%; 194.266 additional tons between 2012 and 2014. While with the Socialist Party it was quite the opposite; during the years 2005 to 2012, quotas fell by more than 44%. However, these quotas are still insufficient, probably because we are starting from a problem of origin that even starts from the date when Spain's entry conditions were negotiated in the European Union. Those who negotiated at that time, who were not the People's Party, have accepted a fixed, invariable, and deeply unbalanced key of sharing since 1983. While Spain represented around 24% of the total European fishing fleet at that time, it has only between 7% and 8% of its quotas; that is, it belongs only between 7% and 8% of the total European fishing opportunities. From the People's Group, and tell me that since the Government of Galicia, we can't and can't and must not be defeated. We want seafarers to be able to work sustainably, therefore, respecting the biological situation of resources; but also ensuring that they can do so in a manner consistent with the maintenance of fleet activity, and especially with the maintenance of jobs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we want to continue to make the sea a means of professional opportunities for employment and the future. And with that in mind, we bring this initiative, which we hope will add to the positive vote of the opposition parties. I know where you're going to come from in the debate because I've seen the amendments. We're talking about waste quotas from other countries. We're not talking about any of the quotas that Spain has, but about the remaining quotas from other countries, because the other system has tried many times and has not worked out. We're going to try a new way to get more quota and so our ships can keep fishing when they're done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u314	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u315	Thank you, President. The Greek fisheries sector rejects the continuing reductions in quotas and total allowable catches approved by Brussels each year, so it calls for the elimination or modification of the known principle of relative stability, or is treated so that the European Union assigns to each Member State a fixed percentage of the TAC determined for each species. That treaty came into force in 1983, the year in which all states distributed quotas according to historical rights, and had an estimated duration of 25 years, which was accomplished in 2011. The Spanish State, which acceded to the European Community three years later, had to comply with 4% of the tonnes distributed among the countries, a fact that caused the fishing quotas with which the Greek fleet now counts to be much lower than its fishing capacity. The Spanish state's fishing sector has always been conditioned by the inequalities that created this norm, which should not have been in force for years. The fishing fleet is opposed to this system, because it is not fair that a country like Denmark, whose fishing capacity is much lower than that of the Spanish State, gets 41% of the quota, while the Spanish State is only 6%. If a Member State is not in accordance with European Union rules, the only way that remains is to try to change the relative stability principle is the judicial one. The Union must defend the interests of the Galician fleet in the face of the challenges facing the sector in the application of the new common fisheries policy: the maximum sustainable yield, the optimal amount that can be extracted from a fish population year after year without endangering its ability to regenerate the future; the obligation to land all catches that must be retained on board and regionalization. The annual consumption of fish per person in the state has fallen by about 10 kilograms in just one year; it is another of the sector's concerns. And to finish it is the problem of identifying the origin of the products in the cans, which favors the use of fish and shellfish. In none of these fields has ever encountered the opposition of the People's Party to move forward in the end of these discriminations and to promote measures that favour the interests of the Welsh fishing fleet. Mr. Balsairo, the principle of relative stability has been there ever since you are a party, you have been a government and you are a government, without doing anything at all, as you are doing right now, in addition to propaganda, advertising and more propaganda. Against the principle of relative stability have been other forces and if they have put forward initiatives in this House for their abolition or change, but you have always voted against. You too have recently voted in favour of ending the trawling fleet in Galicia, against the interests of the Greek fishermen. The People's Party, with this non-law proposition, aims again to deceive the sailors of our country by doing what they do, but without giving any solution to their future. The People's Party must be delighted to meet itself. You just need, I don't know, to put on a crown, because they turn everything they don't do into a real publicity campaign. We want you to be aware of your fishing policy; we want you to come up with the advisor to talk about what your alternative is and what you're going to do; we want this House to repudiate the state government's fisheries policy, which gave rise to the defeat that our fleet is suffering today; we want you to support all those sailors who resort to the courts against the European Union's fisheries policy. Anyway, Mr. Balsairo, again propaganda, again botafume. You're gonna end up smoking like popcorns. They admit the amendment presented, which more or less contemplates what you want, but which goes a little further; and if they do not, of course, admit it, it is not in their mind to improve the status of the fleet, but simply that the others enter to dance their waters in this great ego ceremony of the People's Party. We ask the Community authorities to waive the principle of relative stability; to reject the fishing policy carried out by the Government of the State, which has abandoned the seamen and the Greek fishing companies by defending interests outside the Greek sector; and to support all public and private sector initiatives initiated in the courts in the face of Community fisheries policies. Let's hope Mr. Balsairo, since all the groups have tabled amendments, accept some and we can adopt measures that really support the Greek fleet. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u317	Well, in the last few months we've seen a continuous drop of initiatives that have to do with Mr. Balsairo's own advertising campaign. In the last plenary we attended an initiative that had to do with a press round that was taking place in Ribeira to talk about fishing and today we attended an initiative that has to do with the press round that takes place in Marín to defend a supposed interest of the People's Party in modifying the fishing conditions of our fishermen before the European Union, a European Union where, of course, the People's Party has never done anything to change this reality. But when you read the initiative, you find yourself with a curious question, which I would like you to answer, Mr. Balsairo, if he is capable – in any case, if you see the answer in the script – because the initiative says that you want to push a new management mechanism to solve the contradiction caused by the principle of relative stability and that the remaining quotas can be given to other fleets that need them. What contradiction do you refer to? What is the element they want to solve? Because this text can analyze many alternatives that can be contradictory to the interests of our fisheries. But, above all, what is going to be done with the remaining quotas, as they will be divided, which elements make the decisions, is going to be divided by fisheries, fleet segments, socio-economic issues, or directly whether it will be done as it is done until now, unfairly, as the People's Party does with the distribution, always taking into account criteria that support our sailors and by deciding in the State always against the interests of the fleet of our country? So what we have to talk about is that, in fact, we are facing a new initiative to try to appear what is not the People's Party, and the People's Party is being liquidating our fishing and a party that demonstrates with this initiative its inability to conquer acceptable conditions for our fisheries and that it also now raises some questions that go against the interests of our sailors. And in Europe what is being discussed is something as important as the blue economy. When you want us here to try to entertain these fireworks games on issues that you haven't done anything about, you don't tell us what your position on the blue economy is in that regulation that is developing the European Union and where the People's Party defends that fishing is a secondary element in other activities such as mining or exploitation – let's say – about the energies of our whole sea. And so our fishing, in the set of European quotas and in the set of European fisheries, becomes a secondary element in the face of other interests that defend that so-called blue economy. And what we're dealing with is a policy model that within the sea and the People's Party defends that the sea is occupied, not for activities like fishing, but for others. So here we are talking about two questions. You, who have defended entry into the European Union under these conditions as the principles of relative history that directly affect our fisheries and put our fishermen in a very complex situation, are unable to go to the root of the problem, and the problem is that the big industries have made the decisions. But when we talk about sharing surpluses, we should talk about these surpluses, as they will be divided between fleets, because of course what we stand for – and so we put it in our amendment – is that it is necessary to prioritize, above all the fleets, the craft fleets of this country, so that the craft fleets, which are the most valuable ones added to our fishing around the economic return but above all also the number of jobs they generate, be those that are seen – let us say – favored by this decision. Because, if not, we can be suggesting that it favors itself from this Parliament in a unanimous way because the exchange or purchase of quotas that we cannot share, because it means that those sectors, those ships, those fisheries that most economic capacity have are those that are left with most of the resource. So we defend the need for a sustainable fishing but above all a fair fishing in economic terms. And in Europe and in this country fishing is not being fair in economic terms, because it is our traditional fishermen who are paying for the decisions made by the majority parties, not only in the state and Galicia, but also in the European Union, against their interests. So we, if we do not accept our amendment, will not support the Balseiro's own propaganda initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u318	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u319	Good afternoon, ladies. Let me, first of all, transfer the support to the workers and workers of Fandicosta, as well as to the management of the company, in solidarity with them, and install them to an early recovery of the fundamental activity for municipalities such as Moaña and fundamental to districts like The Morrazo. [[Applause]] And we're here on a new initiative, which the truth always surprises me, Mr. Balsairo, the ability to count bullies. This time he was lucky to come to Marin, there also at Morrazo, but unfortunately he didn't come for example to rock because since the time of Mr. Fraga, four years after we entered the European Union, about how there were two hundred and peak ships in the Great Sun and today there are only 69. Or since he did not balance and realized the dramatic situation that is living on the coast of Marin, that today he already has less income than Campelo's own, in front of him, didn't he? Or, like not! for he did not come at his moment when he dismanted, if he expelled the fleet of Mauritania. Or, for example, he didn't come there to analyze the reality of the coastal trawling fleet, where he was slowly disappearing and was changed by the Portuguese fleet. No, Mr. Balsairo comes here, eh!, again taking advantage of an initiative, a study carried out by Harvey, where he shows that Europe neither eats nor lets fish, that in the last seven years they have stopped fishing for nothing more and nothing less than a million tons, while in our country less and less ships but also more and less jobs. And tell us that it's going to drive a new mechanism where the surplus can either yield or transfer to the fleets that need it. In short, they're going to turn other countries into sisters of Charity, but they don't tell us what system or mechanism they're going to use. Something like what we just did here with the forgiveness of the quota, the excess of the quota of interest, or the excess of quota we had, for example, that we shared and carried back more than I had, and those who had absolutely nothing again remain in the absolutest of misery. From the BNG, of course, we cannot believe or support this new promise, because it would be to swallow a new deception from the People's Party, because we understand that the problem is not only with the fleet of the Great Sun or with the discards, it is with the fishing model which the European Union imposes, that you share, that it is no less than privatizing the sea, our sea. Unlike you, ours are very clear. We believe that the political path is not exhausted; rightly, it is the main problem: to lack a government that defends us. And look, there's these other realities. We compare ourselves with what others do, we compare ourselves with what the Basque Country or the Faeroe Islands does, which has gone from being threatened with sanctions – and you like to fill your mouth with the 2009 and 2010 sanctions – and it turns out that the Faroe Islands have gone from being threatened to a percentage of 4.6 to 12.6%, nothing more and nothing less than 156.00 tons. You compare it to the ridiculous quota that corresponds to the Spanish State. Nor can we admit the current model of merchants, which pays off industrial fishing on artisanal fishing, and we cannot from now on share the model of ITQ or individual distribution, which rewards the most fished and penalized what was responsible for or did not fish – see the case of the Greek siege-. But most of all we can't share that exchange of what you're talking about or that transfer of what you're assuming, because you're abocans that we're going to be buying out, you're going to have to pay for our right to be able to fish. And we want a public management that allows sailors to recognize the right to be able to fish and live with dignity, and not to that speculative model so that only a few accumulate wealth. The case is that we have it in the Greek siege, where there are two worlds: one, shared management, and another, where nine ships own 34% of the quota of the Jury in VIIIb, or twelve, 33.3 of the IXa. So that's not our model. That's why we proposed a replacement amendment, with five points, where our position is perfectly clarified. The first, the political position, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u320	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u321	The second is dealing with the discrimination of PER in the courts. The third is to fight the current model jointly with the sector, as it is doing at this time, or how the Community of Asturias is doing, for example, with another model of tools. And here, with skills to do something, because Galicia also has skills to do something, and here, where we have skills, because we have a share of our own, impose the collective management model, which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u322	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u323	...offers a much fairer distribution, much more equitable. So since the BNG we're not going to be complicit in their propaganda; quite the opposite; we're going to vote against, so everyone knows that this country can't give them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u324	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u325	...no new opportunity for you. They had eight years to prove it and the result was...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u326	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u327	...the February 28 demonstration, where the sector has made it clear that it does not trust you again. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u329	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Well, today we have again seen the Galician Parliament debate on an initiative by the People's Party and Mr Balsairo, who only intends to make a resonance box of an already decided and proposed measure by the Government of Galicia. A few weeks ago it was the strategic plan of the canteen. Today it is a new fishing management model, an initiative that is nothing more than that, beyond that again because it served Mr. Balsairo to make his weekly tour, in this case – as was said here – by Marin. It's not a measure of impulse to the Government's action, nor even of forcing it to position itself on a matter, because, as we could observe these days in different media, the actions that it will take in this case or that it will implement the Government to try to resolve the issues and inequalities generated by the principle of relative stability have a clear path to the People's Party. The conclusions that we could all draw, after these days that you celebrated last week, are that the German Government prefers to argue before the European Union against the key of distribution rather than go directly to the courts. And, indeed, we all agree on the basis: that the current model, which actually dates back to 1983, which is a model that assigns us to 7% of fishing opportunities when we have 25% of the fishing capacity of the European Union, because it has actually generated in the last thirty years some fundamental contradictions and shortcomings in the application of fisheries policy, which have resulted – as has been said here too – in a continuous process of fishing unit losses, around 60%, in the last thirty years, and that – as has been said here – in a study of Vigo shipowners because it is actually said that in the last seven years it has stopped fishing nearly one million tons of fish that have survived the rest of the Community countries and that could probably have meant a value at first sale over 1,800 million euros. So, actually, from the PSdEG we believe that we need to implement actions to modify the model, and on this path from the PSdEG we have of course that there are several ways of doing so, that they have not to be contradictory, but rather quite the opposite, we believe that they must also be complementary. The advisor himself – so he expresses it in the prologue of this study by the shipowners of Vigo – speaks of the two issues. We don't understand why only a few weeks ago they went so far for just one. I believe they are compatible both with the judicial procedure and in this case which must be developed politically. And, indeed, there is a part of the sector, which represents the Acerga association, which has already filed a demand, an appeal against the European TAC Regulation, which revolves against five fundamental issues, because that principle of relative stability, and which, we believe, has some other possibility to go forward. What we don't understand very well is why the Government of Galicia is not even so capable of accompanying the Accompaniment in that demand. I think it would be good for the Greek Government to start supporting those initiatives that are in the sector itself and that the only thing they are looking for is the common good for the whole of the Greek fleet. And logically, there is also the plan for political action, where in recent years the People's Party has completely disappeared. Seven years – almost eight – of government and it seems that they are now agreeing, at the end of this legislation, to start the political route in the European Union; a political path that has already opened up to the reform of the common fisheries policy just with the implementation of the discard policy. We continue to say that the two are complementary, that they can be compatible, both the judiciary and the political route, and here is the amendment we tabled today to the People's Party and Mr Balsairo. We believe that today's proposal, Mr. Balsairo, is too short. It's not good to have just one letter, omitting the legal possibility. So we proposed a four-point amendment that rightly seeks to explore these two paths. We therefore demand at the first point to denounce before the courts the current model of distribution of fishing opportunities of the European Union, and to add to or add the German Government's appeal for annulment of the TAC Regulation and quotas submitted by the Acerga association. But it is also necessary, as I said earlier, to implement political actions, which at this time have not been implemented, and to that end try to resolve the contradictions generated by that principle of relative stability. And, logically, in our amendment, also in terms of state competences and the Government of Galicia, to amend the current Management Plan of the Cantabrian-Northwest Calendar, which has already been annulled on three occasions by the Superior Court of Justice of Madrid. We believe that what we propose is more ambitious than what the People's Party is looking for today with this initiative; it seeks to explore all possible ways to achieve this achievement of greater fishing opportunities, and to take that principle of relative stability. So, as Mr. Balsairo said today in his speech, if what he expects is a support from all groups of this House, I think we all made an effort by presenting amendments to his proposal. I ask you to accept some group or at least deal with the different groups to try to find an agreement, because we all agree on the basics. The important thing is that we don't continue to destroy fishing units and that our fleet can have the ability to compete in Europe in a key sector for our country, such as the fishing sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u330	Thank you, Mr. Val. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. I believe that we all agree and have agreed in this Parliament on many occasions that the TACs and quotas Spain has are insufficient. In addition, I believe that all groups also agree that two avenues have been explored: the political route has been explored, which is almost impossible, because there has to be unanimity and the countries that are left on quota do not agree with this, and the judicial route has been explored in 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2003, and it has always been the same answer: it does not proceed. But I also think we'll all agree that today what the People's Party brings here is a reality, and it's not proposing any of these two ways. We are proposing – I think we also agreed, and you have also criticized it on one occasion – that the distribution model is outdated. But apart from being out of date, since 1983 it has been detrimental to our fleet. Our fleet, with that distribution system, which is a fixed key, is always damaged. What do we say? There's lots of leftovers. Of what? From countries that have quota, which are left over from quota, those that do not happen to us; and those remaining quotas that can yield or transfer. From there we can discuss and we can continue to discuss whether we return to the political path or if we return to the judicial route again, but nothing has to do with what the People's Group brings today to the House and this Parliament to return to political life and to judicial life, which has not given us any results, and that has been many years. We want the remaining shares of other countries to yield or transfer. And before that, as I said here, there's a study done by the university -- I see that you're outstanding, you're fishing technicians, you're fishing experts and you contradict university studies -- that says you're studying the 20 main species that have TACs and quotas during the years 2008 and 2014, and that study says you haven't used more than one million tons of the quota allocated to the Member States of the European Union for an estimated economic value of 1,800 million euros. Well, that's what we brought here. No, I know I've read the summary and I know you're sober and you understand a lot about it. I know I read the summary. I've documented myself, I have to admit that I had to document myself. You don't need it, you don't need it, you don't need it, you get out here in the gallery, you leave a speech, and it's like talking about sardines than talking about swearing. What's the matter? [[Applause]] You don't need to be documented. [[Laughter]] That's why the amendments you presented go in the direction I just told you; two ways that we consider to be exhausted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u332	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u333	We cannot accept the amendments, and we will maintain the initiative as it is. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-10-DSPG152.u334	Thank you very much. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
