ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. There was no justification for inattentiveness and, therefore, we entered the development of the agenda. Provision of promise or oath of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by a new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u2	Before entering the development of the session, it is necessary to give a preliminary point, which is the promise or oath to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the autonomy of Galicia of the new Member Mr Ambrosio Oróns Baña. In accordance with Article 7 of the Regulation, a request shall be made for... [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please! Please be quiet, we are reading the takeover of a new Member. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A request is made for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of the new Member Mr Ambrosio Oróns Baña to replace José Santiago Freire Abeijón. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "yes, I swear" or "yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. I'm asking you to answer the question I'm going to ask you: Mr Ambrosio Oróns Baña, do you swear or promise to remain faithful to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u3	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u4	Thank you very much. I therefore give the oath, you reach the full status of Member of the Galician Parliament and, of course, we welcome it. The first point of the agenda is next. Election of candidates or candidates for the coverage of two vacancies of members of the Galician Board of Auditors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u5	I ask the House services to distribute the papers so that you can vote for the honourable Members. Initiated the election of candidates for the coverage of two vacancies of the Board of Auditors, admitted to the proceedings of applications submitted by parliamentary groups, and subject to the pre-emptive appearance before Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, on 12 February, the Bureau of Parliament, heard the Speaker's Board on 16 February 2016, agreed to include the election on the agenda of the plenary and, for the purpose of voting, a ballot was drawn up with the names of the two persons proposed. The election, in accordance with Article 91(1), (2) and (2) of the Galician Parliament Regulation, shall be secreted by letters and by alphabetical order of surname. The candidate will be elected and the candidate gets the majority of three fifths, i.e. 45 votes. The expression of the vote shall be made as follows: votes in favour, entered into the ballot box previously delivered by the services of the House, in which the names of the candidate and the candidate proposed are shown, marking the corresponding box or boxes with a stamp. Empty votes, if you don't mark any boxes. And null votes, when the names of other people are written or contain scraps or signs other than those that serve to grant the vote to the person or persons proposed. We proceed to the distribution of papers. I don't know if everybody's got the paperwork. If someone doesn't have it, I appreciate it. Do you all have any paperwork? So I ask the first Vice-President and the vice-secretary to sit in the poll, because we will begin the call in alphabetical order, made by which the Secretary of the Bureau will proceed to read it. [[Assentment.]] Mr. Secretary, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u6	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u7	Thank you, Secretary. Is there any Member or Member left for exercising his right to vote? No, no, no, no. Thank you very much. We proceed to the scrutiny. [[Pause.]] When the vote was taken, the result was the following: votes in favour of D. Constantino Carreira Souto, 59; votes in favour of Da Beatriz Rodríguez Fraga, 59; votes in favour of D. Constantino Carreira Souto, 15. As a result, members of the Board of Auditors are called Don Constantino Carreira Souto and Ms Beatriz Rodríguez Fraga. Election of candidates for the coverage of three vacancies of members of the Social Council of the University of Vigo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u8	We now elect three members of the Social Council of the University of Vigo, according to article 79 of Law 6/2013, of June 13 of the University System of Galicia. It's already done with the paperwork. The explanation of the procedure is that the Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 25 January 2016, was informed of three vacancies as members of the Social Council of the University of Vigo, specifically Mr Julio Estévez Fernández, Mr Xesus López Carreira and Ms Monica Vázquez Blanco, on the expiry of his term of office, elected by this House at its plenary session on 13 September 2011, the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. In accordance with Article 79 of Law 6/2013 of 13 June of the Universitary System of Galicia, three persons must be elected to fill these vacancies. Subsequently, the Bureau, on February 16, 2016, following the hearing of the Speakers' Meeting, agreed to its inclusion in the agenda of the plenary and the opening of a deadline for the formalization of nominations. The Bureau, at its meeting on 22 February, after qualified proposals, agreed to draw up a single closed list containing, in alphabetical order, the names of the candidate and the proposed candidates, the proposed parliamentary groups and their transfer to the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups. The election, in accordance with Article 91(1), 2(a) and (2) of the Galician Parliament Regulation, shall be secreted by letters and alphabetically named names. The vote shall be taken by inserting into the ballot box the paper previously delivered by the services of the House, in which the names of the candidate and the candidates proposed are shown, marking the corresponding boxes with a stamp. Empty votes will be considered not to mark a box, and null votes will be counted when the names of other persons or other signs are written. When the scrutiny is done, we will proclaim those chosen by a simple majority. I suppose you all already have the paper and therefore I pray to the first vice president, to the vice-secretary and to the secretary that we will initiate the call for the alphabetical vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u9	Thank you, Secretary. We proceed to the scrutiny. [[Pause.]] When the vote was taken, he gave the following result: votes in favour of D. Xose Manuel Atanes Limia, 71; votes in favour of D. Javier Casares Mouriño, 72; votes in favour of Da Mercedes Castro Mouzo, 72; votes in favour of D. Javier Casares Mouriño, 2. Consequently, members of the Social Council of the University of Vigo D. Xoese Manuel Atanes Limia, Javier Casares Mouriño and the Mercedes Castro Mouzo are elected. Proposal for a single reading and urgency procedure of the draft law for measures relating to public emergency or exceptional projects of interest, and, where appropriate, debate and vote on this draft law
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u10	We've already moved on to the development of the agenda with the legislative texts. The Bureau, hearing the Speaker's Board at the meeting on 16 February 2016, agreed to propose to the House plenary the processing, by the single reading procedure, of this bill in the light of the provisions of Article 134.1 of the Rules of Procedure. Before the vote is put to the motion for a single reading procedure, a brief round is opened for parliamentary groups to be able to set their position. We therefore begin this round by the Joint Parliamentary Group, and for that we have the floor of Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The single reading system is entirely exceptional and is set by procedural rules as a special legislative procedure. The single reading technique is characterized by the abolition of certain procedures of the central phase of the common iter lei, which logically entails a number of consequences: the impossibility of presenting, debating and voting amendments, which usually take place in the Commission. This limitation translates into the impossibility of presenting proposals for amendment to the articulation; restriction on the exercise of the right of participation of parliamentary minorities, and the possibility of negotiation and political transaction on the original text disappears. This restriction affects the legislative power of Members and Members of the opposition as regards the possibility of presenting amendments and participating in their debate and vote. It converts the House, moreover, into a body with the only function of accepting or rejecting the legislative text proposed by the Government. It is therefore clear that the development of rules through a special procedure will result in a reduction in the possibilities of participation of opposition groups in the legislative process, so its application must be reserved for subjects or texts of limited political transcendence, or widely consensual between political forces. This is, therefore, a procedural technique through which Parliament intends to respond quickly to legislative proposals which do not present great difficulties in consensualizing or agreeing to its approval, by agitating procedural procedures. But, of course, this is not the case, nor are we dealing with a minor or transcendent issue, nor is this bill a fruit of dialogue and agreement between the political forces represented in this Parliament. We're talking about a bill that seeks to legalize illegality, under the declaration of project as urgent or of exceptional interest, without defining or limiting what projects can or should not be considered urgent, or what requirements must be met to be considered of exceptional interest. This debate is very political, since we are talking not only about big business or economic projects, but also about the environment, social rights, housing, citizen participation. Therefore, we are faced with an act by the Government which understands the absolute majority as the right to exercise totalitarianism in its political performance, denying it the right to participate in citizenship, in spite of propaganda laws such as public participation or transparency laws of the Government. The prosecution of the urgency of this bill is the result of the Popular Party's refusal to agree with the opposition an exit to the conflict created by the Supreme Court ruling that annulled Vigo's PXOM. It is a fraudulent use of the regulation, since we had the opportunity to reach an agreement during the processing of the Land Law. But the People's Party didn't want an agreement that would respond to strategic projects that might be in danger in the city of Vigo. The People's Party what it wants, and it's going to do, is to use its absolute majority to leave without effect the Law of the ground which has just been approved, when the local, autonomous or state administration decides that a project has exceptional interest and urgency. Clearly, among these urgent projects, or of exceptional interest, are not people's rights, because the Union understands that people are not of exceptional interest to society. A democratic fraud which seeks to legalize the illegal by endangering the environment and denying the right to citizen participation. A blank check on urbanism, which so many complaints, sentences and beatings have provoked in our country. A blank check for that area that gave rise to the most serious cases of corruption in our country that we are living in. So we think this bill has to be modified. It was a shame not to wake up during the Law of the ground, we are now before a decree made, in some way, as a single-reading bill, which I hope will be removed. There is even amendment to the whole of the People's Party itself, which shows that this was not a single reading issue, because even the People's Party does not agree with the People's Party's Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u13	Good morning to all of us, we continue with this cluster of plans in the form of theater of the People's Party, and also of the Socialist Party in Vigo; a cluster of disposives which comes to be confirmed today when we see how it brings us a single-reading bill and the People's Party itself comes to make a recognition that there were two fundamental aspects that claimed AGE from the beginning in which we were right. The People's Party has no choice but to try to make up our demand that the environmental assessment process be introduced in this procedure, and introduce environmental impact assessment, which is not the same. We continue to demand the process of strategic environmental assessment, because it guarantees total legal security and not, in this case, environmental impact assessment. But it's a recognition of the reason for the AGE, when we were disqualified from the beginning, if you put us under pressure and you didn't want to dialogue on the basis of arguments. And the second recognition is that the People's Party itself, the last hour, amends the Government of Galician Union, introducing twenty days of public exhibition. That's right, by the counties, work like expropriations, work and the fat part will be transferred to the councils. But it introduces twenty days of public participation, which is what we've been demanding from the Gaga de Left Alternative from the beginning. Why does this have to be brought here, as brought in article 144 without dialogue, without sitting on a table, with technicians, with the secretary general of Urbanism, talking about specific issues and reaching an agreement? Why didn't you do that in the land law processing? Why wasn't this done in the processing of the law deliberately? Because actually what we weren't talking about was solving people's problems or Vigo's problems. It was a theatre, which cannot be understood without the election results of the People's Party in Vigo, failure after failure, and there was a unique opportunity to try to get out as saviors of the city of Vigo by the Government of the Unity of Galicia. It was a theater, the least important of it was the Citroën workers, the least of which were the projects. There were solutions, we already put them on the table, it was a pure theater of electoral interests. The rest didn't matter, though it was at the expense of continuing to operate in urbanism in Galicia as it's been operating, with the results we all know. Why is a text last-minute amended by the People's Party introducing transcendental issues, such as the 20 days of public participation, and no month and a half ago, when it was set up in the Land Law Congress, have we not done a process of dialogue on specific issues with counseling technicians? Why? I'd like him to answer. When we finally have to introduce questions that we were demanding from the Gaga Alternative on the Left, why didn't it be done? Because it was an operation that had little to do with urbanism techniques; it had to do with an electoral operation to get out as Vigo saviors, etc., but the urbanism of the 314 municipalities in the country is in danger. In the next intervention we will deepen on what is the content of our alternative text, and the alternative text of the People's Party, showing, once again, that what was least sought here was to defend the general interests, to defend rational urbanism and to make blurry and new account of the urban chaos to which we have suffered similar actions in the past of this country. It's, finally, a pure irresponsible theater, the improvisation continues, the most ephemeral ground law in the country's history – and that's what we've already had a good history in this aspect – and it adds up and goes on. I insist, deleted and new account is what this country needs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u14	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. We are now in the process in which we have to debate whether we should give support to single reading processing – and by urgency – to a supposed new law, which is a hidden amendment to a Land Law which has not yet entered into force, which is a whole record, Counsellor. And in this sense, we mean that since the Galician Nationalist Block, we don't agree with the treatment proposed by the People's Party and the Government. And we do not agree, firstly, because this is a procedure that limits the role of the groups, prevents dialogue and the debate at hand, and because in practice we can only vote against amendment. And we think that this is a very important limitation of what must be the role of a Parliament in relation to a matter that we think even if it concentrates on a single article it has a very important transcendence. Because we are introducing an instrument within the legal functioning of the Galician Union that will greatly condition the lives of the municipalities, the actions and the very functioning of urbanism. We must also say that we have doubts about legal certainty and the processing of this law. Look, this law doesn't meet the requirements of the Transparency Act. There's a law of transparency and good Government of Galicia, a law published early this year. It is true that this norm was not in force at the time of the internal processing of this law, but it is curious that having that law already approved, which specifies the obligation to publish drafts when they are internally formalized by the Government, as in this case Galician Board has omitted the public information proceedings of this law. You can say the representative of the People's Group that this is of no importance, and that even from a legal point of view there was no such requirement. But if we see what legislation is in this area of the State, there is a law of State transparency which is also understood to be applicable in the case of autonomous communities. And this law, in Article 7(b) establishes as mandatory acts to publish draft laws and draft legislative decrees whose initiative corresponds, when requests are made, to the corresponding consultative bodies. The Board processed this law by requesting the report to the Legal Counsel, processing the report to the General Secretariat of Equality, and at that time did not make the public disclosure procedure. We also have doubts as to whether this law really fits in with what the Galician Local Administration Act says. Because this law states that the Galician Cooperation Commission has to issue a report when bills reach the local regime. And it is clear that legislation and that this bill significantly affects the municipalities, among other things, because it establishes the obligation to expropriate all those works that are done at the expense of this provision of this law. So it has a very important transcendence. And finally, we also have doubts about the legality of whether the processing of this law complies with the provisions of Law 6/1995 of the Galician Economic and Social Council. Article 5 of this law states that between functions and reports that are pre-emptive are draft laws and draft legislative decrees that regulate socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development. Ladies and gentlemen, if you agree to the explanatory statement of this law, one of its justifications is for the interest in economic and social development, but the Board has made this clear. We, as a Galician Nationalist Block, are going to ask for reports to know if all this processing of this law really suits legality. We think we're talking with rigour and solid arguments that question a process that – I mean, it's a political and legal chauffeur. And that it's irresponsible to do it coming here and wanting to impose a rule without any kind of quiet debate for something that will have a lot of transcendence to the future.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Now, at this point, we're going to treat approval, or give green light to the processing, through the procedure of urgency and by single reading, of a bill that somehow has already been raised in the Law of the ground. And in that sense, I have to say that the Socialist Group is going to vote in favour of this urgent process. That does not seem to constitute any novelty to anyone, because we have already expressed our support for the incorporation of Article 144 of the Land Law amendment into its day, in December, which we were submitting to the debate in the Commission at that time. I also have to say that the text of the bill is a well-known text, because it coincides exactly with the text that was presented to us in December to the Law of the Earth. And from that point of view it contains the same limitations and the same errors – in our judgment – that had that text, but what we cannot claim is defence, because two months ago we knew it. And, in fact, the Socialist Group – as it will see later – will present to this text exactly the same amendments that we presented to the previous text. At that time it was not possible to accept the procedure in the Presiding Chamber because there was no unanimity in that admission of the procedure. But the fact that he wasn't admitted to the procedure doesn't take away his urgency or the need for this project to be passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already said – and I think it was a clear and hard intervention in this same Parliament, and we have also done so in the corresponding Commission – the view that we deserved the Galician Land Law. We're talking about his foresight, his improvisation, the backward step he was supposed to take, the excessive cut he was supposed to be, and the problems he was causing. And we've anticipated then that it would be the shortest law in history from the point of view of its change; we were not wrong at all. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first law – I think it will be amended three weeks before it comes into force, because the text of the Law of the soil was published in the Official Journal of Galicia – if I do not remember – on the 19th day; it will come into force a month later, on 19th March, and it will be amended on 20th March, in anticipation, if the text of this law is approved. And therefore, as brief as possible from the point of view of changes, and we hope this is the first, but not the only change. But what we also understand, ladies and gentlemen, is that the lack of foresight and lack of competence on the part of political leaders is not something that citizens should pay. And the political confrontation we have held in both the House and the committees or the Phoenician House itself is not something that citizens should pay for. The citizens of Galicia and the citizens, specifically, of Vigo at this time, expect us to give them answers and solutions to the problems they have posed. Fundamental themes in Vigo as the development of Balados' business area, strategically fundamental not only for Vigo, but for the Vigo area and for the Galician set. Or how can it be the intermodal, fundamental to the area of Vigo, Mr Losada, the first city of Galicia and the second by number of rail carriers it deserves to solve the problem of the intermodal of Vigo. In the case of the City of Justice, it seems that the solution goes for other defeats and would not require the approval of this law. We are therefore going to vote in favour of taking into account the urgency procedure, because we believe that the mistakes and shortcomings of public representatives should not be paid by the citizens as a whole. And I believe that within a reasonable period – and this is the only procedure we know, what we have at our disposal – the Vigo Council must have the legal authority to grant the corresponding licences, and this is the only way. We shall therefore vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u18	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u19	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Of course, we've seen here today to solve a problem that Vigo especially has – he may have any council of Galicia at any time – but what's clear is that Vigo's problem was not a problem generated by the People's Party's Union Government, but by the Bipartite, or by a Government of the People's Party in the Vigo Council, but also by a socialist government. So they have to keep things very clear about why the People's Party comes to solve – and the governments of the People's Party – problems generated by the progressives and they say and make problems that solve the problems that they themselves have generated. And, Mr. Bugallo, I agree with you, the confrontation you said – if I didn't take the wrong note – that we politicians don't have something to pay citizens, I think you said that. That's why the confrontation we have with politicians is that some of those who are here have refused to accept this initiative in the process of dealing with the Land Law, after the deadline for presenting the timely amendments has been closed and Vigo's problem has arisen. And the Government of the People's Party and the Members of the People's Party – and those who speak to them as rapporteur in that Phoenicia – we try to find a solution to that problem. And who refused? It was not you, Mr Bugallo – you have to say – but what you refused will have the responsibility – in this case AGE – that you could debate at that time. And they're still here saying that where you should be debating it was precisely in the Land Law Forum, both you and the Mixed Group. Well, of course, that's what we agree with, but who prevented that debate wasn't the People's Party, it was you. And, in fact, an amendment was introduced at that time where the public exhibition was not going and the PSOE proposed that a public exhibition be made. We were talking about fifteen days ago, you were talking about a month -- if I don't remember bad -- But the point is that we in the Phoenicia – and you can corroborate it – said that we were willing to do so, without a problem, that we admitted at that time, already in that debate, which was the public exhibition, without any problem. And the rest of us will enter the debate later, at the next point, because this is to justify the urgency. And, look, the urgency is very clear, we have to solve it -- Mr Bugallo said, our confrontation doesn't have to influence people's problems. We have an obligation to solve people's problems, and that is urgent in this case, to solve a problem not generated by the People's Party's governments and which you have in this case Vigo. And that at any time you may have any municipality in Galicia, because there are many general plans at this time that are affected. And I don't know whether or not to say the words that Mr. Bugallo said in a press round, that a general plan was not approved until it had passed through justice. Well, I didn't mean so much, it seems a little strong, Mr. Bugallo, but I read that and I worried a little, and you have to say it. But a general plan is adopted when approved by the board, when approved by the council, and when approved properly. And in this case, perhaps the Vigo Town Hall justified an emergency that did not have it, and you would have to see it, just like some other Town Hall. But what we also want to say is that this bill meets all the legal requirements, and of course we would also like it to be clearly discussed in the Law of the Land, as it was reasonable. Now, this does not come to modify the Law of the ground, therefore, do not tell you that it is the shortest law; this is just as there are – and they will know – the procedures of supramunipality. It's not passed by any law, it's an independent decree. This comes as an independent law for emergency projects or exceptional public interest, that's what it's about for public projects. Mrs. Martínez, I know about public projects I've never seen an urban ballast, but we don't confuse private projects with public projects. We're talking about public emergency projects or exceptional public interest, which is clear that it's not worth everything, not much less. And besides – and we will discuss it next – within the content, always respecting municipal autonomy as a very clear topic – finished, Mr. President –: the Town Hall has the last word, do not forget, that up until now did not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u20	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. We therefore vote on the proposal for a single reading procedure for the draft law. Voting of the proposal for a single reading and urgency of the draft law on public emergency projects or of exceptional interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; votes against, 15. The voting is positive. This proposal is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u21	This debate therefore takes place by means of a single reading procedure. Debates and votes, by means of a single reading and urgency, of the draft law on measures relating to public emergency or exceptional projects of interest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u22	We have therefore started the procedure, which is the single reading procedure of the bill, to which amendments have been tabled. In particular, an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, one by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative, one by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, one by the Socialists Parliamentary Group and one by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u23	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies. As you said, we have brought a law to this House which is a new law to read the project alone for measures in the field of public projects of urgency and of exceptional interest, which, of course, is the procedure to which we see ourselves being brought from the Government of the Union, through this Parliament, after the irresponsibility that some minorities have made in this Parliament in the debate of the last Law on the ground, when they have not allowed us to debate the text that we bring to this House today from the Government of the United States of Galicia. In fact, fifteen days ago it could be fixed this subject, but today, once again, and the fruit of the responsibility and the agility of the Government of Galician Union, we have to give answers to situations that are clearly not desired by anyone and that are obviously answers that we want, in particular, to affect the Vigo Council as well. I mean, answers to the problems that arose through the judgement from the Supreme Court that annulled the Plan of the Vigo Council. A judgment which caused a serious prejudice to the city as a whole, to the city as a whole, but also caused a serious prejudice to projects which are of exceptional interest to Vigo and, in particular, to this council. The project we are presenting today is not an improvised text, it's a worked text, it's a well-known text, it's a text, it's also analyzed by the leaders of the Legal Counsel and by the officials of the territorial Planning Secretariat. The objective of this rule, which transcends the Vigo Council, is to safeguard all projects that are led by a public administration and that actually bring social benefits, economic benefits, not only for the Vigo Council, but also for the rest of the 314 municipalities in our community. So this is a law that pursues, uniquely and exclusively, what is pursued since this Government, which is the general interest of all Greeks and Greeks, and does so, as it could not be otherwise, by respecting at most all the guarantees of the procedure, and thus providing the necessary legal certainty. From the German Government we know that guarantees and security are essential when we defend the interests of citizens and citizens, and I believe that the guarantee and security are the basic words that we present today in this Parliament with this new single law of reading. A text that, firstly, obliges the statement of urgency, the exceptional interest of the project, is limited, uniquely and exclusively, to initiatives led by public administrations, never, in any case, by a private entity. Secondly, it also once again casts on the municipal autonomy that we defend through the law of the ground, the municipal autonomy, since the municipalities will always have to give a good look at any of these projects; that is, the county has the key. In other words, a project will only be viable if the municipality in which it so settles, and it also obliges this law to have all initiatives informed sectorally, according to which the legislation in force collects, is called environmental assessment, called environmental strategic assessment. Finally, it will collect all sectoral reports that are relevant for the development of this project. I'd like to stop at each of these points now, to try to explain by the child, and once again, the contents of each of them. As the title of this law well says, this text is directed at public projects of urgency and exceptional interest. As a matter of urgency, that is, time runs against, and of exceptional interest, that is, they must always be promoted by public administration bodies and subject to all controls and guarantees that are linked to all public administrations. And therefore – I repeat again – the private initiative is absolutely out of the content of this law. The public body promoting the project will transfer to the competent council in the matter, whether it is Economic, whether it is Industrial, whether it is Health, to the board whatever it is, by requesting the statement of urgency and public interest, and it will be that council to which the reasons for urgency should be justified and will forward this project to the council. At the moment of the process, the second feature of what I was talking about – and of what I talked about 15 days ago – is essential, which is the blockage of municipal autonomy. It's the Town Hall, once the board sends the project back to it justifying its urgency and interest, who should issue a report on the local interests of the initiative. If the report was unfavourable, the competent counsellor shall immediately proceed to the archive of this file. I mean, the Town Hall report is going to be preceptive and binding, no project will be able to access this processing if the Town Hall that is affected disagrees with it. And not only that, the guarantee of municipal autonomy goes further from the first report. So, the rule that we are demonstrating today, demonstrates its complementarity and coherence with the new Land Law passed just fifteen days ago in this last plenary session. One of the fundamental axes of the Land Law is the respect and recognition of the autonomy of the municipalities in the area of urbanism. We must not forget that urbanism is basically a municipal competition. Our duty, as an autonomous administration, is to provide the municipalities with all the tools for urban development to be produced in a way that is sustainable, harmonised, responsible and of quality. And, of course, to ensure that general interests are respected, above any particular interests. And he had previously said that in case the report – I repeat it again – preceptive and binding of the Town Hall was unfavourable, the file would be filed; but otherwise, if the report is favorable, the process will continue forward and the file will again reach the Unity of Galicia. In this case, from the competent counsellor's office you will send that file to the councillor's with competence in urbanism, which is currently the Territorial Environment and Planning Council. It will then be from this Council, where all pre-emptive reports will be requested as a matter of urgency in accordance with the applicable sectoral legislation. And when I talk about sectoral reports, I say, it'll be all the precepts that apply to legislation, whether environmental assessment, environmental impact assessment or strategic assessment, which I need every project at any time. And, therefore, the new legal framework complies with all the guarantees of the process. What makes the new standard is to speed up – for some reason, some of them are urgent – the procedures, but in no case does no procedure. And that's why we say it's a law that offers legal security to the Greeks and to the Greeks. The processing will be completed when the Board of Trustees approves this file. And we think it won't be more than four to six months. That is the minimum time required to comply with the existing maximum deadlines, which are already laid down in the procedure. In the case that this law that we present today was not approved, to carry out these essential and urgent projects, and of exceptional interest to those we speak of, the only thing left would be the new municipal planning, which would mean, according to the new law passed just a few days ago, a wait of at least, and as a very little, two years ago. This does not mean, at least, that the new norm intends to replace general plans, which makes the new norm to solve the problems arising from the absence of an updated general plan, for whatever reason, by a statement, as was the case with the Vigo Council, or for any other reason. And only in those cases of public urban initiatives that have a direct impact on the quality of life and well-being of citizens, and even on the economy and development of our community, will this law be applied. And again, I'm talking about exceptional projects, which, because of their importance, cannot wait for the approval of a new PXOM, a new plan that, at least, can be at least two years. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you will agree with me that there are public actions that cannot be paralyzed until the adoption of a new urban plan, without causing serious prejudice in our community. This doesn't mean we haven't had our firm commitment to the development and approval of the general plans of the municipalities since the Galician Union, on the contrary. Since the first day of the decision of the Supreme Court that annuls the Plan of Vigo, we have pointed out that a general plan is the only solution to secure the whole urbanism of the Vigo Council; there are no shortcuts; the only solution is that the Vigo Council takes forward a new general plan. In fact, since June we have always insisted that this is the only formula to solve the problems of each individual, of every small company that exists in Vigo Town Hall, a new general plan, and so from the very first moment, we offer to those who are competent in the matter, which is the Town Hall itself, the maximum possible collaboration to develop this plan as quickly as possible. The commitment to planning is something that we have demonstrated in the Land Law, which makes the municipalities available all possible tools to make it possible for there are 314 municipalities with their adapted planning, and for that we have two tools that we understand basic and highlighted in this Law, as is the Autonomic Basic Plan and as are the municipal basic plans for the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. Finally, I believe that the commitment, that the urban management of this Government and this Council, in particular of which I am responsible, is beyond doubt, which we are not going to do, in any way, and leave the citizens of Vigo or any other municipality of Galicia destitute if they had found themselves in the same situation. The main purpose of any self-government must be to look after the general interests and to look after the interests of its citizens, rather than the most populous city in our community, as Vigo, of course, is a clear exponent. This is how urgency responds to the process of this bill, a new Law on the soil that Vigo's city will give it greater agility to make it possible as quickly as possible not only to its PXOM, but through this law that we are presenting today it also has the possibility to respond to projects of special interest to the city of Vigo. If this bill is passed, it will allow fundamental actions to be put in place in this county. This problem could – I would say again – be fixed just fifteen days ago, with the debate in the Sun Law of an amendment which, in some way, was boycotted and could not be debated. Luckily, there is another way of doing politics, which is to be concerned about the general interest and which supports the vast majority of the House, because today we are not talking about private promotion, nor are we talking about making shortcuts, we are, of course, talking about public interest and the benefit of all the Greeks and the Greeks. But I must insist, it's not an exclusive legal text for Vigo, it's a law for all the Greeks and the Greeks, and it offers solutions and guarantees whenever necessary in any municipality of Galicia. This bill blinds our Community to legal security and puts citizens' interests above any particular interest or partisan, so it's a clearly positive and beneficial bill for Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u24	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of defense of amendments to the whole. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u25	Thank you, President. First of all, as we have already said, there was no such processing by the single reading procedure, since it substantially amends the law that has just been passed, 2/2016, of February 10, of Galician soil, to which reports from various agencies that are now not required to amend a law that has not a month to live. Therefore, the PP was the one who refused, during the processing of the Land Law, to seek a negotiated solution with the whole opposition, and now we are faced with this situation, to such an extent that the People's Party itself recognizes the aberration that the People's Party wanted during the processing of the Land Law and amends to the full the Government's proposal itself. Therefore, Counsellor, here who did not wish to reach an agreement during the processing of the Land Law was the People's Party, because he wanted everything in exchange for leaving urbanism totally unprotected. Furthermore, this bill, as presented by the Government, generates a great legal insecurity by not being justified when a project may be of special urgency, which is what it collects in the explanatory statement – it speaks of "special urgency" projects – but then in its single article it speaks of "urgentity", that of "special" stood out, and also when it is of exceptional public interest, especially when it is not going to consult the affected population. It is clear that this bill does not intend to resolve the conflict generated by the Supreme Court ruling that annuls the 2008 Vigo PXOM but that it intends to take advantage of the so-called conflict to legislate in favour of the law of the jungle as regards urbanism, opening the way for acts of the General Administration of the State to be accommodated by this bill and imposing the modification of urban plans. We are faced with a bill that runs away from the obligation to submit public information and strategic environmental impact assessment to the urban actions that the Administration considers urgent or special public interest, denying the right to legitimate defence of social and personal interests that may be violated by these actions. In addition, although the draft law states that it is intended to prevent public projects from being lost that act as backbones of social equality and promoters of Galicia's economic growth, there is no mention in its single article of the need for these projects to promote social equality. The Supreme Court handed down a firm judgment annulling Vigo's PXOM for not carrying out the strategic environmental impact assessment before its approval. The decision took place seven years after its entry into force, when it seemed that the PXOM had not gone back, for before reaching the Supreme it had been rejected by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. We really have a problem with Justice. A city cannot be paralyzed for seven years awaiting a firm ruling, but no license can be granted which, as in this case, then the PXOM cancels and puts the Town Hall in a very conflictive situation. So this bill leads us to something that has already been debated in this Parliament on numerous occasions, and it is to the situation of extreme precariousness in which justice is working. The court considers that the obligation to carry out the strategic environmental impact assessment was not respected, a requirement that was established in line with the final stage of the development of the vigue plan. It was not an obligation on 31 May 2006, when the Council sent him back to the board for approval, but on 21 July of that same year, when the board let go almost two years until it declared impermissible his submission to the planned environmental assessment process. Two years to answer! There is experience in Vigo about these situations. Situations like this have been experienced by us, it's not the first time Vigo has been out of general plan. We saw him in 1991, when Xosé Cuña suspended Vigo's General Plan and put the city in the same situation as it is now. Today we can say that the situation that Vigo is experiencing is due to the use of its PXOM as a weapon that is being cast between opposition and government, keeping the interests defended far away from the social and economic interests of the city. It is surprising that, since the Supreme Court handed down the judgment until today, we have heard the political leaders of the seriousness of the judgment, how it affects Citroën, the City of Justice, the intermodal station, but we have not yet heard about the political responsibilities or projects of individuals that are being affected. The Vigo Neighborhood Federation has opened an advisory office to any neighbor who considers himself affected by the cancellation of the plan. In his first week of operation he received more than one hundred requests for consultations, and several of these neighbors and neighbors decided to file a complaint against the Board and the Town Hall for the property prejudices that this court decision caused them. It affects the practicality of all Vigo neighborhoods and parishes where urban development was planned, especially licenses that were requested and that now, after the 2008 General Plan has disappeared, they are no longer granted even though they have fulfilled all the legal steps that have been imposed on them. The problem with some people is that they plan to build houses and the land they've acquired is no longer urban. Other people have been turned into urban farms by the existence of a PERI, with the consequent increase of the IBI, and now they qualify the PERI as impermissible. There are also people who sold real estate to invest money in a new housing. In the case of capital re-investment, it pays 8 % of sales tax and, if the new house is not written in four years, it must pay 20 % of taxes for not reinvestment. So also an economic punishment for these people. Or people who have already started or finished building their homes and now becomes illegal and therefore denouncing anyone. But neither Junta nor the Town Hall are concerned about people. So, the Board presents us with a bill that seeks to secure the economic interests of large corporations and has no single proposal to guarantee the rights of citizenship. On the other hand, this bill seeks to legalize the illegal under the declaration of the project as urgent or of special interest, without delimiting the same. A bill that deprotects people from the execution of orders of expropriation or imposition of services, since they are denied the basic right to make claims. A bill that protects the environment. Thus, we do not know whether this bill, once approved, will automatically approve socially answered projects such as Salgueiriño's commercial macrocentre. If this bill were in force in 2012, the declaration of the exploitation of Corcoesto gold – which affects the municipalities of Ponteceso, Cabana de Bergantiños and Coristanco – as a strategic industrial project, according to the resolution of 20 April 2012 of the Directorate-General for Industry, Energy and Mines, would be sufficient to grant the exploitation. She said the advisor in her speech that these are projects promoted by the Administration, not by private entities or companies. I understand that this concern about Citroën's enlargement lies in the interest of a private company, not in the administration's own initiative, but in the administration's acceptance. A law that, by means of the annulment of Vigo's PXOM, establishes a regulation that only benefits the urbanist mafia and seriously prejudices the rights of citizenship. A bill that deserved a amendment to the whole of the People's Party itself, which, however, did not wish to accept a negotiation during the processing of the Land Law and, at least, to present that alternative which it presents today as amendment to the whole. We therefore understand that alternative texts are now being presented, that there is a possibility of reaching an agreement, that all groups of this Parliament are interested in resolving this conflict, in allowing the city of Vigo to move forward in its strategic projects, but also limiting that this becomes the law of the jungle and introducing a bill that actually disrupts what has been tried to regulate with the law of the ground. For my part, that's all. I hope this time we can reach a sensible agreement, which solves an urban problem without protecting the rights of citizenship and without protecting the environment. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u27	Good morning. I guess I won't wear out for fifteen minutes. Almost everything's said. The counsellor said that the change to article 14 could not be introduced for the irresponsible action of the Alternative Left Galeg. Home!, and because of the inability of the People's Group, which with 41 Members was unable to bring forward a law with which I was fully satisfied. That has something to do with the inability and what we've seen denounce us: the chapuza is still the one that has us used to this government. Legal security. There's the People's Party to talk about legal security, and solving problems for the future, after what we've just known about the wind competition. You're the one who's going to cancel the Bipartite's wind competition with a ruling by the Supreme Court, annulled, illegal, power diversion... yes, sir. Yes, Mr. Farinas, annulled, null! Yes, a full-fledged decision, power deviation, and they cancel their contest, which has to go back to the adjudication phase. That's a package for the future of this country! That is indeed a labyrinth where Mr. Feijóo put his decisions, which were also supported in supposed legal security. A mortgage for the future, one more that leaves the People's Party in the worst government in the history of this country. A mortgage that can cost millions and millions, and it can cost many years to get out of the mud renewables sector where you put us in. He said irresponsibility. Look, discuss it with the spokesperson of the People's Party, who, less than 24 hours before, submits an amendment to his government where he says he has to put 20 days of public participation. Tell him. I will no longer defend public participation, there is already the People's Party here, which presents an alternative text in which public participation is introduced. That explains to you the spokesperson of the People's Party why you, the People's Party, 20 days of public participation. If it wasn't for these irresponsibles, we would have admitted a text that didn't talk about environmental processing and didn't talk about public participation. So these irresponsibles managed to get this text to contain, at least, 20 days of public participation, even if you use it to the Council and we say it has to be done by the promoter body, like expropriations. You're talking about the Town Hall having the last word. Where does the sovereignty of the council reside, Counsellor? Where does the sovereignty of the municipalities reside? Because what you're proposing is a report on municipal services, but this isn't about the whole of the Town Hall. Why don't you pass this through the Town Hall and have to be approved by an absolute majority? So, who has the last word is the mayor of the Town Hall, who can charge the report of the municipal services. That's the last word. We propose, in our alternative text, that it be at the Town Hall of the Town Hall. Clearly, thanks to these irresponsible ones, if the text gets better, even if it's not a text that solves the problems that nobody's going to argue for. We never discussed it. We need to find a solution. It's not about Vigo, it's not about... it's about looking for solutions, but solutions that mean solutions, not kicking forward and finding us with the same problem within three or four years. Because these arguments were repeated in all the municipalities that decided to circumvent the process of strategic environmental assessment in those years. The urgency of the projects, the urgency of approving the planning, that was a lie, what you wanted to do in many municipalities was the process of strategic environmental assessment because that conditioned the content of the general plans that should be approved. You tell Vigo's citizens, if we go back to 2008, they'd also choose to justify the urgency and move on without the strategic environmental assessment. I think most of the beams and the beams would say we have to do strategic environmental assessment because the effects caused by their circumvention were worse. And I know the People's Party is going to get into him and you. We never get into him and you. We know there are many municipalities with the same problem. We know, we never refused to recognize that. What we do believe is that what you've been looking for here, as I said before, was not solving these issues. You just told the advisor that this procedure may be between four and six months, and we've been lost for almost three months by this publicity operation of the People's Party, three months lost! I've said it once, sectoral project of supra-municipality city of street furniture, duration, ten months, with two months of public exposure. We took a month's public exhibition, and it's nine months. If the Galician Union believes that it is exceptional the urgency to approve a project, which will express more quickly, with greater flexibility, sectoral reports, and we have the problem solved, with effective regulations, at the same time or in less than what you will do with this express law. But this wasn't looking for that solution. This was a propaganda operation of the People's Party, to try to remain as a savior of the city of Vigo, for electoral interests in Vigo. Nothing else! That's it! Unfortunately, Mr. Caballero joined this operation because he was also interested in diverting the attention of the Vigo Government's responsibilities to the annulment of the general plan. But in the end, of course, the People's Party is not interested in defending the interests of Mr. Caballero and whoever wants to be a savior of Vigo will be Mr. Feijóo, and Mr. Caballero will remain on the land of no one. Those are Mr. Caballero's bad political choices. Yes, we had to endure that we were anti-Visitors, the anti-Visitism of a lord of La Coruña! Yes, I wake up every day eager to go against Vigo! Certainly! There's a level of arguments! There's a level of arguments in this country, when we're still following the anti-virtualism and the coruosity we have to listen to in the 21st century! Obviously you weren't looking for this. It's obvious the chapuza continues. You make a law that you come here to sell as something historic, the Law of the Land, which will be historic, which solves I don't know how many problems, and before you approve it they already wanted to modify it. And not even with 41 Members, most of them absolute, are able to get the law out of the ground you want. They're not even capable of that! Then his government introduced a text for an express law that had to amend the People's Group to introduce nothing but 20 days of public participation. It's just that yours is to give them a prize! They have to have very good image advisors so there's someone who still considers them good managers, because managers have nothing, they're real chauffellers, as it's proving again. Don't lie, Counselor, don't lie. He says that if this was not approved, there would be only the change of the general plan. It's not true. If this is not approved, there would still be the possibility of the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence, or the timely modification of the planning of 93. Don't say that only the general plan will be left. And besides, it's also true... of course it is! The priority must be to make a new general plan, of course! Because not everyone is lucky to be Citroën, and there are many more interests at stake than Citroën's, to have a government that makes them law to measure. But those citizens, I suppose, will also matter, will also have to give solutions to the small and medium-sized company and a normal citizen. And I suppose that, even if the works are done by public administrations, there will also be to respect the constitutional right of public participation and also to respect the right of persons to be informed and to make allegations if they consider it. Or is it that being a public administration can do what you want? Is it supposed that a public administration – which is already much to suppose – always looks for the general interest, having the Government that we have before us and having the governments of the People's Party, which we see as they look at for the general interest? And then they call us Bolsheviks. They call us Bolsheviks! Well, sir, as a public administration, citizens are no longer entitled to make claims, according to the People's Party. Well, this is a tragic comedy. In short, we don't go into shows, we don't go into theaters, and we present an alternative text in which we repeat three issues that are non-negotiable to us. Unquestionably you have to go through the process of strategic environmental assessment. A strategic environmental assessment law which takes account of the proportionality of actions; which has a simplified procedure if a plan does not have significant environmental effects. Because we are focused only on the needs of Citroën, and the Citroën project certainly has no significant environmental effects, but what if there is a public administration project that has these significant environmental effects? Won't the strategic environmental assessment pass, Counsellor? won't it happen? I say, I ask, won't strategic environmental assessment happen when a plan has significant environmental effects? We believe so, and for this case we could certainly follow the simplified procedure. We also want a month of public exposure, public participation and the possibility that people will present their claims. And finally, we want it to be the Full Town Hall who approves, for the most part, the project. May it be the full, which is where the sovereignty of the Town Councils resides. I suppose I'm going to put these three questions that we've been asking for two months on the table, to put three questions so clear, so specific, it's not a political force that doesn't want to get wet in solving the problems. Surely if we had another attitude, we would do the opposite, a speech based on demagogy, disqualification, etc. We put three specific points, and the People's Party had no choice but to try to camouflage two of them. When we were told that environmental assessment was not required, they introduced environmental impact assessment. When we were denied the need to make the public participation that we said, it now takes 20 days. That's a recognition to the position of the Alternative Left Galeg from the beginning, it's a clear recognition. Mr. Castineiras, why didn't we talk about a text with public participation and Etractic environmental assessment in the Land Law? Tell me, you've told me, because you're too used to getting past the knee, and when it comes to talking and putting aside interests, it's about putting aside all the interests, the People's Party too, for many 41 Members you have. And before that Alternative Left Galician doesn't pass, in the face of pressures and disqualifications, no. If they want to talk, let's talk, but in the face of pressures and disqualifications, we're not afraid of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day again. I said the Counsellor, in the defense of this bill, that it was a law that had legal certainty and security. In the previous intervention we referred to three major legal problems. They do not comply with the Transparency Act; they do not comply with the law of local regime and do not comply with the law of the ESC. I wonder what would happen, Counselor, if any citizen had questioned the legality of this law for not being fit to what the public consultation and information procedures should be. We'd be back in the face of a real disaster! There is no answer, there is no report, besides, that justifies why this has not been done. So you're still a policy in which you believe that if you have a majority in this Parliament, you don't have to take account of it, nor do you have to take care of the lawfulness or the arguments. I think this is a very negative starting point, and you should at least be sure that this cannot pose a future threat to the legal legality of urbanism. We also believe that all this processing and the content of this project itself show very little rigour and a lack of very serious seriousness. And we think that when they're playing with such important interests, not only Vigo, but in the rest of the country, the first thing to demand from a government is rigor, seriousness and responsibility. Look, to say that the problem of suspension of a general plan is something that occurs in 2015 with the suspension of the Vigo General Plan is a fallacy, because urban issues to question the urban legality of plans are a continuity, and you know that in the future there are many plans that can have the same problem as at this time Vigo. Therefore, since this is not a novelty, urban legislation foresees solutions to that problem. In fact, this article, which is now the article of this law, has been part of the urban legislation with another formulation since 1976, and the grave thing is that you've been not knowing how long you've been cooking a land legislation that doesn't provide for instruments that are part of the ordinary operation of urban legislation. So what is the rigor and seriousness of the Law of the ground that you have just applied, when is it worse than the previous legislation? At least they should recognize that there is a serious problem with that law and that they are not capable of political or technical solvency to meet the challenges of Greek urbanism right now. I'm the only one who seems to me that you should recognize, that there was no prediction and that they cut the law without taking into account what needs were. They also say that this is the only solution to Vigo's problems, and we say it's false. The council itself, the municipal government itself, claimed that a solution could be the declaration of supra-municipal incidence, such as, for example, they did in the case of the Vigo hospital, or the statement of public urgency; that is, there are tools you had to be able to take forward this process, but we haven't just explained why they reduce everything to this issue. I also think -- and I think it's important to put it on the table -- that they know that the text you send us is actually an amendment to the Law of the Earth. What's the matter is, because they don't want to recognize it, they go to a formula... and when they do, they do it by revealing that it has no technical rigor. Paragraph 6 of the Single Article states: "The Board of Trustees, the proposal of the competent adviser on the basis of the matter, shall approve the project if appropriate. In that case, it shall order the initiation of the change in the corresponding urban management in accordance with the processing provided for in this law." This is a single article law that does not regulate the processing and procedure of the corresponding urban management. This shows, Counselor, like you in this law, the only thing they did was take the amendment article of what was 144 in the Land Law and put it here, without even reviewing its content and seeing its legal adequacy. You'll have to ask at least the General Secretariat for your advice, and the Juridical Counsellor himself, some sort of responsibility for not detecting such a serious problem. Because if you did, you were remigrating in this law... that I don't know if the PP or the council itself after sending the law, and this you change in the amendment to the PP, but it's a very clear example of the lack of rigour with which you faced this law, a cut and paste and some reports that, if you don't detect an error from the very basic legal point of view, this would leave out, and without references, as if the procedures for urban change were made. And don't you realize the problems there are? The same way they send out a text where no public participation is expected. Tell us why, Counselor. And the PP fixes that somehow. I also have to tell you that Mr. Castineira should explain to us whether it is normal for a project that drives the Union or that drives the ministry to have a public participation process that is only published in the Official Gazette of the Province and that solves it is the Town Hall, which is not the promoter body. How can that be? The logic is that the promoter body and the council are the ones that resolve the allegations. What you're doing is cutting down on the responsibilities that each administration must have on the basis of its competences. And they don't respect municipal autonomy. Because to say that the municipalities have to fund the expropriations of any project made at the expense of this instrument is an aberration. The councils will have to finance the actions which are their competences. In the rest there may be agreements to do so if it is estimated by both administrations. But they are forcing the councils to fund those works that are the competence of the Union or that are the competence of the ministry. This doesn't seem to us to respect municipal autonomy, which we think is abuse. And most of all in a country like Galicia, where our municipalities have a very important funding deficit and where the decisions of the People's Party in Madrid drown them economically, even from the point of view of the possibility of indebtedness. It's just that this leads to a box without exit to many municipalities in this country. Therefore, we are not worth the law that sets in motion or that deals with the Board of Galicia, which we already say is done without participation, without the slightest technical rigor, without transparency, without listening to the voice of the councils; because it was not consulted with the Fegamp, nor was it consulted with the body that is legally established in the Law itself of the local bases, the Galician Commission of Local Cooperation. They haven't consulted any of the local administrations, when they're placing such a relevant responsibility in this area. We also say that this is a project that is not intended for Vigo, this is a project and a law that will be able to apply in any country. And they're justified by Vigo's problems, but you know that he's not real and that he has legal problems. In the BNG we also commit ourselves to solving the problems of Vigo and this country, and we offer an alternative, because we say not to this text without an alternative, but rather to put some very clear alternatives: First, because of technical rigour, which is normally assumed to be an amendment to the Law of the Land, that they do not disperse regulations, because that will not help them to give more legal certainty to problems, but it will be worse, because they are making a law, not because from the point of view of technical rigor is the best, but because they do not want to acknowledge that they made an important mistake in the processing of the Law of the Land. So they recognize that we're modifying an article of the Land Law, and it's usually said, and they don't start to disperse the legal regulation, that we believe it won't help anything in the future and that, of course, it's very bad legal practice. We understand there has to be public participation, which is a citizen's right. And in that sense we say that at least all the plans that are made at the very end of this article have to have twenty days for their public exposure, which can be expandable, considering what the scope of the project is; because you can't have the same deadline for a project that is simpler than for a project that has great social conflict. So it also foresees and leaves the administration itself to be able to extend that deadline. We don't think it's serious to tell the municipalities that they have ten days to issue a report on the assessment of the impact of an act. It just doesn't give them time to do it, it's impossible if you want to make a really technical report and evaluate what their impact is. That's why we say that at least the deadline should be one month, and that not only have to weigh local interests, they also have to consider what the general interest is, because the weighting of general interest is not an exclusive part of the Galician Union. And that global amplitude can also be seen by the municipalities in assessing the opportunity of this concept, among other things, because that of local interests from a legal point of view in legislation is not collected, so it's an indeterminate legal concept and it's going to be a source of new judicial conflict. And we think that in urbanism, at least judicial problems and clarity have the regulations, much better for the future and for legal security, which we are seeing as something so important in this area. We also believe that whoever has to resolve the allegations of the public information process will have to be the Board of Galicia, and not hold the Council responsible for this, because we already say that we don't think it has to be the council itself that determines such issues, if it isn't the body that promotes that initiative. And then, finally, we also believe that who should make expropriations is the promoter body; it is that it should not be the municipalities that must fund expropriations of competition actions that are state or board of Galicia. That's just what I'd say it's a lot of dying, isn't it? We do the works, we have the responsibility, but those who have to finish paying the expropriations are municipalities, which – I say – are also with asphyxiation and economic problems that are very serious towards the future. So we have an alternative that we think is reasonable, that is logical, that improves from a legal point of view this reality and offers solutions. And we repeated again: we said, from the very first moment, that we were about to give them solutions to the problems that Vigo had. We also put on the table the possibility of making an amendment to that law, which would collect the article that was already in force at the Louga, and the PP denied this possibility. They don't hide the reality from what happened. There were more proposals on the table to give them a solution already in the Land Law, but you just want to listen to your opinions, because they confuse most of them with being right and because they don't at any time want to accept the problems and shortcomings they have. Counsellor has a law, and I'm sorry to tell you, Counselor, from the point of view of technical rigor, you should be the first to acknowledge the problems you have, that this is a chapuza, which is not normal that a government with the means it has and after passing through a legal advisory procedure comes with such important ponds. The PP recognises in its amendment that there is a problem because it didn't include its own social participation, they do it in a very limited way, and even, of course, they have to correct, which tells us this was a super urgent law, and the Board itself said: well, well, a 30-day entry into force deadline, right? That they didn't even think about it, because if it's such an urgent matter, why didn't it come into force the next day of its publication? I mean, it's curious that a law that came as pondered as you told us and with so much rigour it has so important fundamental problems. We hope that the PP, rather than coming here, will begin to say that they are right, that they recognize that in urbanism this country has long failed after failure and that, unfortunately, here we are faced with a new remedy that does not provide basic solutions to the serious problems of urbanism. Since the BNG we have never opposed any solution, because we also respect that there is a majority in this Parliament; what we do not believe to be received is the sovereignty with which you have dealt with the proposals of other groups and which refuse to listen and dialogue. We also said: solution to all Vigo's problems, but if they are solutions to Vigo's problems, concrete proposals for each of the problems. There was no argument or reason why you didn't do it that way. We will see with the time that it is hidden behind this law; to us, of course, it does not smell well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u31	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Very good days again, gentlemen. I would like to begin by repeating something that I said at the outset, and that we denounced it in its day and reiterated it again in the previous intervention: the mistakes, the limitations and the lack of foresight of the Galician Land Law, recently adopted by this Parliament. You're not right, Mr. Castineira, when he talks about not changing the law of the ground. Yes, it changes you from the ground. In fact, this law processed by emergency procedure will amend article 144 of the Land Law, Mr. Castineira, because it enters into force on March 20. Do you know why it comes into force on March 20th? Because March 19th comes into force the Land Law. And if this law had come into force tomorrow, that being so urgent would be the most logical thing, what would happen? That the entry into force of the Law of the ground would nullify this law, because it would nullify the rules of equal rank which are opposed to it, and this law amends Article 144. That's the reality. And I am speaking of uncertainty because in all the laws of the Galician soil, from the first, which was the 1985 law, the second to 1997, even the one which is in force today, in Article 198(2), this possibility of these projects of exceptional interest is envisaged. And this in the text that was approved on 9th was not contemplated. We warned you then. There's also something else that I mean, maybe it's a phrase that has not been properly explained or understood. Unfortunately, all urban issues and legal controversy go together; today all urban issues generate legal disputes. And it is also true that today the doctrine of the Supreme Court has changed. Twenty years ago, plans made with thousands of deficiencies greater than those of today, and the Supreme Court for suspending a plan had a lot of thought, because there was a principle, which was that of the preservation of administrative acts, which had a great weight, and today that philosophy has changed. If twenty years ago the Supreme Court had not cancelled more than one plan a year, recently, in the month of November, the same room, a single room of the Supreme Court, the same one that canceled Vigo's, had cancelled five, only in the month of November. I mean, philosophy has changed completely. And some by subjects as peripheral as in the case of the Street Furniture City, which was talked about earlier, because there was a missing report from the Ministry of Industry – I think it was – and because of a lack of a report, completely annulled a plan that took ten years to process. Well, it changed philosophy and we have to adapt to the new stage. With regard to the text of the law which is being considered today, I would like to highlight three aspects which the Socialist Group shares and which I think are important: The first feature is to make it clear that these are acts promoted by public administrations. The acts promoted by the private initiative are excluded, which may have been worth talking about, but are excluded. Here we speak of acts promoted by public administrations exclusively. And then we're talking about public emergency projects or exceptional interest. This is very important; we don't talk about private projects or private initiatives. In relation to the theme of Vigo we speak of Balados' business area, promoted by the Consortium of the Franc Zone, not by Citroën. Citroën appears below, but what promotes is the Consortium of the Free Zone. Or we're talking about the intermodal, in which the Union participates, the Ministry of Development and the Town Hall itself. So we're talking about public initiatives promoted by public administrations. The second feature to be taken into account, and perhaps we should talk about this, is that they are projects promoted by public administrations when their purposes are considered to be of public interest to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, because they are bound to matters of their competence, and they are established as a body that will determine whether there is such general interest from Galicia to Galicia. In fact, here are excluded topics that may be of strict local interest, only if they are of general interest in Galicia, and must be evaluated in this way by the Council of the United States. It seems limited to us, but we have no objection to that either. And the third feature that I think is important is that it establishes that it refers to projects that are incompatible with planning, whether it's for lack of planning, or whether it's for inadaptation of planning. How many times can an opportunity arise that could be lost, because indeed the planning times are the times we all know. I said the counselor with an enormous optimism that usually characterizes it: in two years. That's two years! Where's a plan that came out in two years in Galicia? We're used to seeing plans that have been twelve years, fourteen years. It takes Lugo, Mr. Castineira, eighteen years, eighteen years. Two years! [[Laughter]] I wish there had been plans that had been made in two years! Obviously, no investment, no project can wait for that barbarity of time, there has to be a mechanism that allows a solution and that does not suffer the neighbors and citizens these losses. Therefore, since the Socialist Group, these issues we do not question them, because we understand that they are reasonable and sensible. However, with regard to this document, there are some shortcomings that two of them, the two most decisive ones, we've already proposed them exactly as we now put them in the presentation, and then I'll talk about them. There are also some minor issues which, in fact, reveal a certain concern – it is also in the amendment to the whole of the Socialist Group – as is the reference to when it is said: "the planning will be modified in accordance with the provisions of this law". Of course, that's because we kept the text that was presented to us as an amendment to article 144. And this law was the Law of the Land, it is not this law, that in this law there is no procedure for the elaboration or processing of urban planning; this law is a specific law for specific matters. There are some mistakes in this matter but they don't seem relevant to me. The problems that are relevant to us refer to two aspects: One, the public information phase. We have already said so in December, and indeed Mr Castineira there has told us on this subject that the People's Party was willing to reach an agreement, it is true. We have already proposed a phase of public information, because we understand that it is essential to identify problems, so that we can correct mistakes, and we understand that it is essential to provide legal certainty to the agreements that are adopted. In the times when an appeal is made before a court that raises the slightest doubt, if there is a problem of defence of individuals, that is dead. I mean, it's important that we have a chance to detect the problems and give them a solution, either by giving them in the project itself or by giving them a proper answer. And there is another subject, ladies and gentlemen, which seems to us to be serious, and this, Counselor, I say to you: this is an act of unnecessary, unjustifiable and unlogical evil. What am I talking about? From the beneficiary of expropriation. The Law of Compulsory Expropriation, in Article 2(1), regulates who the administrations are competent to expropriate, which are not all, are only territorial administrations, i.e. councils, deputies, self-government and the general administration of the State. The French Zone Consortium and the university cannot expropriate because they are not administrations empowered to expropriate. But what you set out in its paragraphs 2 and 3 is that there is the figure of the beneficiary of expropriation; that is, when we talk about topics of general interest, one thing is expropriating administration and another is the beneficiary of expropriation. Counsellor, you in the text of the law literally say that "you will have the status of expropriating administration and beneficiary of expropriation the council in whose municipal term the works are performed." And then he says that the county will have to transfer these land to the administration that proposes the initiative. Look, anyone understands that the beneficiary of this expropriation is the one who receives the municipalities. You put that figure exclusively for purpose, and it's that all resources, all claims of justice fall upon the county, and those who receive the land receive them free of burdens and free of responsibility. Man, this is deeply unfair, first, because it is unnecessary. We accept that the council of good faith is also like the nearest administration to take care of expropriation. But there is this figure of beneficiary who, as mayor of Santiago, often touched me to make expropriations with the benefit of the University of Santiago, Campus de Ciencias da Saúde, or the beneficiary of the Consortium of Santiago City, and the Town Council deals with all expropriation. And when they come to justice, if it's different from what was predicted, the council simply does it is to transfer the file to the beneficiary administration, which is the one that has to pay the difference. If not, who has to pay? The county. Who has to answer in every trial? The county. And, man!, considering – what we said before – that are themes of general interest in Galicia that only the Council of Unity can evaluate, doesn't it give them a little shame to charge 100 percent of the responsibilities and the hypothetical cost to the weakest administration? Why do they do it if it's not necessary? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we present this amendment to the whole and we believe that it is sensible, that it is positive, that it is reasonable. And besides, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you think of one thing: the Union will rule it over and over again, there will be governments of different colors of the Union. I hope you're ready, but it may not be so soon, but there will be. However, in the municipalities in Galicia, the People's Party has always ruled most of the municipalities of Galicia, and in the end these evils will fall to their heads. And one day someone will come and say, "Hey, who did this to?" Well that day we'll have to say, not what Mr. Castineira was, who wasn't Mr. Castineira, that comes from your advice. I am convinced that the Members of the People's Party, especially those coming from the local area, would not seem to be wrong to leave it open for the Council to expropriate, but that the beneficiary status is something to be agreed between the municipality and what it really will get the benefit of expropriation. It is you who by this law taxfully establish by legal imperative: no, the dead fall to this, which it turns out that the benefit brings another, that interest has another, that does not matter; the dead is destined. Well, great, you have 41 Members and therefore have absolute assurance that if that's what they decide to do, they can do it. You can also now agree in this plenary that it is tonight, and by 41 Members this Parliament will agree by law that it is now at night. That's great! But listen: to reason a little and to be a little generous wouldn't hurt them either. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u32	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Mr. Bugallo, man, what I know for now is day, eh! Then we won't make it. And I'm grateful that I really recognized here what happened in the presentation – and it's not a dubious embrace, it's the truth, and when you tell the truth you have to recognize it – that in the presentation exactly the amendment presented by the Group of the People's Party to this bill was offered. And it seems that Members – who seem great to me to be asking for public participation and public exposure – of the People's Party had no right to make amendments like any other member of this House, it seems that we do not have that right or if we want to deny it. Well, of course, we have a right, and so do we, and so we've seen it, and we'll come to do it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to know where we came from and where we are from... yes, where we came from and where we are from, where we came from in this matter in legislation, what we even proposed in the presentation by certain groups and what they wanted to approve, and what they did not approve or allow the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that respects municipal autonomy – said the Counsellor and so on – and promotes collaboration among the different administrations. And I'll tell you where we came from. We saw that the AGE lords proposed to Vigo the solution of supramunipality, decree of the year 2000. And do you know what the supermunicipality statement is about the municipalities? Asking for a report, not binding, of course; you ask for only and only... No – sorry – in the supramunipality or that, you give audience to the municipalities, audience: come by, come by here, see the project and I send it back later. But the acting board or administration does what it deems appropriate. That's what the AGE gentlemen wanted, who then, on the other hand, put the amendment and say: no, no, let it be approved by most absolute majority in the plenary, that there will be participation, that there will be public exposure and so on. But that was worth it, which is, of course, much less participatory. BNG proposed – and logically in its right – the recovery of Article 198 of Law 9 of 2002. Okay, but Law 9/2002 says the municipalities will report exclusively on adaptation or not to the current planning, unique and exclusively, not to the municipal interest, for nothing. And report, of course, non-binding. We're the same. And curiously he also accepted that admission to the AGE procedure; there was no problem there. However, in the People's Party's proposal, which was much more participatory, that in addition to what Mr Bugallo said – he recognized it and why it was so – we were willing to admit – no problem because it seemed so reasonable – the exposure to the public, we were talking about that in fifteen and twenty days – that is why twenty days are now put, which is what appears in the Law of Public Administration –, hey!, and said no. And Mr. Sánchez asks: why do we not allow the debate in the Land Law? But you're wondering why you didn't admit the procedure so you could debate. Because logically they said no, and they said no, not only once, twice in the presentation, once in commission and repeated in the plenary. Yes, of course it is, exactly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] However, they said yes to the recovery of Article 198, I don't know if they had an agreement there, if the commission is collected. Yes in committee, Mr Sánchez, if they said so, and it is collected and voted. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] That's very easy for him. There's no more to see. It's very easy for him. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I assure you he said yes, perhaps he doesn't know it anymore, because, of course, they go up and down and they don't know what it is. And he talks about that others are looking for votes and demagogy and making politics. But if you live in despair, man!; if you're the worst, the better. And so they live in a party like that. And do you have anything against the generation of jobs, do you have anything against Index, do you have anything against Citroën? Do you have anything against Citroën? [[Murmurs.]] Because they seem to have something against job creation, that's reality. And that's what they'll have to explain to the citizens of Vigo and to the citizens of the rest of Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] We have it very clearly, and so we said. And we said we were going to find a solution to Vigo's problems, and this is a solution to Vigo's problems. And not only from Vigo, but from the rest of the Greeks and the Greeks, and from the rest of the municipalities of Galicia, because, indeed, this is a law designed for the 314 municipalities of Galicia. That's right. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] You're talking about this bill... even criticizing us for presenting a whole amendment. Look, you know perfectly well that in a single read project, when you want to enter any small modification, even if it's a small modification, you have to make a whole amendment to incorporate it. That's how the processing works, and if they don't know, they should know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u35	For any small modification – I didn't say it was small – any small modification has to resort to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u37	You have had your time, sir, if you have not been pleased with your intervention, for let Mr. Fajardo, who has behind him and seems to be very interested. Look, that's what there is, and the single reading is like this. And logically there are people who say it can be illegal. [[Murmurs.]] That is, if we were to approve the alternative text that it presents, for example, the BNG would become legal, and it has the same procedures as the amendment of the People's Party, or the amendment of the PSOE. Why then do you say there is a lack of proceedings? So how do they present an alternative text? Well, or present as the Joint Group did the withdrawal, point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if you're presenting the alternative text, you're recognizing that it's not illegal, that's the right process, and that's why you're presenting the alternative text. Why? [[Applause]] Because if we all voted on your text, this law came into force with its text – so simple – with the same procedures, the same public exhibition and the same reports, exactly the same; but so it was, otherwise not. We're talking about deadlines and we're going to talk about deadlines because I think we have to say the differences: Look, public information deadlines: People's Party, in our amendment we talk about twenty days. PSOE and BNG, 20 days. We agreed. AGE, one month; well, it's a position. Reporting time by the municipality: PP, thirty-five days: twenty days of exposure to the public in the project council plus ten days to issue the report, complete the report with the report of the allegations, five days later even if you failed to do so within that period, and in total thirty-five days. PSOE, the same procedure, because it was also the amendment we were talking about in the presentation, which was what was collected and what was brought here, and what should have been approved in the presentation. And the ones we've been there know perfectly well. AGE, twenty days plus ten, and, of course, the report if there is no report of the municipality in that requirement that is made ten days would be the unfavorable report. The BNG one more month is an extension that you don't know how long, deadlines that are, more at the end of ten days, and if there isn't yet, it would be the unfavorable report. Expropriating administration, another subject where there is debate so that it says so. In the PP we understand that the expropriating and beneficial administration must be the council; the PSOE says that the expropriating administration, the council; BNG and AGE, the promoter organ. And I ask, because here comes after you also talk about the resolution of allegations in the public exhibition, and my question is, if the public exhibition – which they also speak – makes it the chairman responsible for the matter, if the project is a deputation, what does it do?, the administration, the board, resolves the allegations of a project presenting the representation in a council? Would it not be more logical for the exhibition to be made by the council – it is the administration closest to the citizen – that in the report that makes the municipality itself they are already collected and reasoned those possible allegations that are there, because otherwise the council has no right or opinion on the claims of its neighbours? And if the administration is the State, what happens? What solves the state administration's allegations to Junta? And that you're what you're talking about: that counsellorship in matter is the one who makes the statement and the resolution of allegations. Man, the county must be what makes it. And, in addition, that's exactly what comes into the question of municipal autonomy clearly. Why? Because the council has the power of that report to be binding, and the council is what you can say: I do not agree with this after listening to the neighbors, which I believe is the obligation and that is what we want. This is not an imposition, it's a collaboration between different administrations. This is what we need to understand from this bill. It is an important step and an advance in the field of participation and in relation to any process that comes back both Article 198 of Law 9 and, of course, the declaration of supramunicipality. [[Applause]] An important step and a step forward. That's why I said we have to see where we came from and where we're going, gentlemen. We must, of course, move forward in our participation, of course, in the solution of problems. And, of course, when there is a serious and responsible government and a party that supports it seriously and responsible, we have to think about the neighbors and neighbors and the workers to give a solution to all the Greeks and the Greeks. We can't make politics, as Mr. Bugallo once said, of anything. Our struggles cannot affect our neighbours; we must seek solutions; it is our duty as Members of this House. Entry into force, which also referred to the period of entry into force. Yeah, March 20th. On 20 March, because the Land Law was published on 19th, it came into force on 20th. When the Joint Government drafted and approved this bill, it was not published by the Land Law. So you didn't know exactly when the date would come into force. If this entered the next day of approval, as AGE proposed, we would be derogating it from the very Law of the ground. Indeed, Mr. Bugallo said so. Actually, but that's the way it is. It's just that we'd be stupid if we did something to throw it down the next day! Do you believe? For that, logically, by being approved and by being published by the Law of the Land in the Official Journal of Galicia, we have that date and of course it has been corrected. The point, in fact, is that there was a mistake in the Government's proposal that once a project of this caliber is approved, it will come in accordance with this law... No, the amendment of the People's Party already refers to the Land Law, Mr. Bugallo; if you read it, it makes reference: "according to the rules of the Land Law." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Exactly, but that is what the amendments are for, and that is why we are Members. You speak of article 144 – now 147 – of the Land Law. I ask all Members who are here and all groups if someone has tabled a single amendment to that article, a single amendment. Because, of course, it's very easy to blame. It's just that the government didn't, that the PP didn't, and it has 41 Members. And the opposition, I put something on that, did you notice that that was missing and you presented something? So we do realize and the Government, once Vigo's sentence falls on November 30th, that the ordinary deadline for tabling amendments has already been closed for all. What did we do? And you said the same thing: you tried to find a solution, not only for Vigo, but for other things that could happen. What do you do? There is a amendment to the motion, with exactly the same content as what the Government brings here, and with the amendments which, from our point of view, do not, that under our right as Members, we are from the group we are, to make amendments. And we made the amendment to introduce the assumption that we had talked about in the presentation, that it was a demand that we had and that it had observed, that it was, among other things, the public exhibition and the participation of the municipalities. They have already come clearly – go to the initial amendment and the Government bill – the binding reports from the municipality and the municipality's power to say yes or no to that project depending on local interest. We're not talking about other kinds of interests, as the current law of the ground or the supermunicipality decree speaks of. And there's a subject that I can't stop saying about AGE. Let's say it! I don't know if they've noticed, but AGE eliminates any participation or possibility that the State participates in such a project. And he says he wants to solve Vigo's problems, and Mr. Bugallo said so too. Hey!, Citroën's expansion takes a project from the Vigo Free Zone; the Franc Zone belongs to the State, several administrations participate. If the state cannot participate, how does Vigo solve the problem?, how does the intermodal problem solve? Because there's also the ministry. And you just delete that point, delete it. They don't tell the state. Of course, as you don't know if I'm from Marea, if I'm from Podemos, if they're upstairs, if they're down, if they're with Galicia or they're not sure where. Hey, hurry up! But, of course, Galicia's interests are that the state also invests in Galicia, and you're setting up doors for the state not to invest in Galicia. We do not, we want to solve the problems of any council and that the State, if it is a project of interest to Galicia, invest in Galicia, of course yes, of course. And that, of course, you have to know the neighbors and neighbors of Vigo: AGE, once again, remains against the neighbors of Vigo. Look at it, read it and you'll know exactly what it is. Of course, each signed what is written, what he said and what he proposed. With regard to the Joint Group, well, they will know: not to this bill; I suppose they don't care about Vigo's problems? Then you talked about topics like the Vigo Town Hall General Plan, and I want to remind you that the review of the General Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u39	...of the municipality is an exclusive competence and competence of the municipality. And, of course, we respect municipal autonomy. Of course, all the support to the Vigo Council to carry out the review, but it has to be the Vigo Council's initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u40	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Replica round of the amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u41	Well, of course, I think we're attending the debate anymore – I don't know how to qualify him so as not to disrespect anyone – perhaps absurd of this legislation. It doesn't make any sense that we're here today with this processing via an urgent article that we didn't want to discuss in the Land Law, we didn't want to find a solution. There was, of course, from all the groups express demonstration of the intention to reach an agreement that had solved not only the problem that Vigo had but much more. It's more: they came to suggest that they come to see technicians, that they come to the council, that they go around with legal, technical and all kinds of reports to find a solution, and it was the People's Party who refused to work in that direction. The only thing the People's Party wanted was to impose its drafting, which quickly liquidated all the proceedings without counting on the Town Councils or on the township of the Town Councils. That's the summary of what happened in the Land Law and it's the summary of why this situation is brought here now. In this situation, I don't say that the People's Party has any right to amend, I think it's good and, besides, it's healthy as separation of powers from the executive and the legislature; they don't have why... you can perfectly amend the group that supports the government and the government itself. I don't think you have any problems. What I think, of course, is that those amendments are now made through a bill when you refused to negotiate with the opposition. As for the alternative texts presented, of course, there is a variation of the exposure days. Of course, I think that five days up or down can't be the problem, and that the maximum guarantee is in the longest exposure period, especially to citizenship and to the municipalities so they can work it out, just as I think it's important that it be the full council that should approve it. And that we always take strategic environmental assessment forward. As to the theory that this bill that we are dealing with today is geared only to public initiatives, experience, unfortunately, what has shown us is that many times these public initiatives respond solely and exclusively to specific private interests, which are justified as being of general interest to citizenship. We have more than one experience, and that's why I intervene. That's why I think all the guarantees that can be introduced into this law are few. As far as the Joint Group is concerned about Vigo's problems, we are concerned about Vigo's problems, but above all we are concerned that by improvisations, by specific points of interest, which are on the table today, if we put the future of Vigo's urbanism at risk. A city that has grown up all its life without an urban plan, which is a real chaos, and so it is, and that the People's Party wanted to further increase this chaos and to protect more people's interests. So I hope that at least my vote will be for those initiatives that give more guarantees and longer time to answer the citizens and for the actions of governments. As far as expropriating administration is concerned, I believe it should be the promotive administration and not the council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u43	Well, Mr. Castineira, to live out of despair. Those who were feeling pretty desperate and nervous are you, having to defend what you have to defend today, which is indefensible. All this cluster of dissidents, improvisations, errors, errors accepted by the way of facts. You said "little changes". Home! Is it a small change that the People's Party in its amendment to the whole introduces public participation in a text that sends the Government of the Union without public participation? If we've been debating that for two months, Mr. Castineira. How could it be that in the Government text it was not already contemplated public participation?, or did they talk to the legal services?, or did they realize that what we were saying was true?, what happened? Is it a small change from not having public participation to contemplate it? Of course, I see it's normal for you to be nervous and have to defend that. It's very normal. I don't repeat the story again. It turns out that we have a commission where people come to talk about the Land Law, we have a two-year development of the Two-year Land Law, it turns out that in that Land Law Article 198 is deleted. Of course I do. The logical thing is, what should be great is that all the actions are inside the planning and it doesn't work out on the planning edge or against the planning. That is the evolution that was considered in principle good, optimal in the Law of the soil, so the 198 was withdrawn. And it turns out that a simple sentence, which should have been planned, was likely to happen. So that's what we denounce: the lack of total foresight. Turns out there's a sentence outside the deadline for amendments, and then we've armed all this chaos. That's the lack of foresight that has always existed in the policies of urbanism in this country, always; that's what needs to be done. A law has to be sufficiently thought and well prepared so that things like this don't happen, Mr. Castineira. How are we not going to talk about politics in this? And that we need to talk about politics. It is that this country needs a 180 degree change in policies, of course. It's just that this is the same modus operandi that led us to this urban wonder where this country is and where you have a lot of responsibility, which you can't help but assume. Today's situation in Barreiros and Ourense, where provisional urban management instruments are cancelled for circumventing public participation, is a consequence of this continuing improvisation. And I'm telling you, of course, in the case of Barriers it was the Bipartite, too badly done; but in the case of Ourense not, too bad done. But at least we learn from experience and we don't make the same mistakes again. Nowadays public participation cannot be circumvented, it is a constitutional right – a student of the first right to bury this – and one cannot circumvent the process of strategic environmental assessment, it cannot. And then what you can't do is not tell the truth, Mr. Castilian. I don't want to go into the details again, but you say that by AGE here you wouldn't act the General Administration of the State. It's a lie, it's a lie, I read point 2: "Despite the one set out in the preceding paragraph, projects promoted by public administration bodies or public law bodies that are inconsistent with urban application planning" – this is our alternative text – "and it does not result from processing them as sectoral plans or projects of supramunicipal impact, which must be accredited in the file, can be executed if reasons of urgency or exceptional public interest are appreciated in accordance with the provisions of this article. Without prejudice to the provisions of the State implementing legislation as regards acts promoted by the General Administration of the State and its public law entities, the Administration of the Autonomous Community shall be competent to assess the reasons for the plans". We do not prohibit the State Administration from acting or proposing, which we defend is the right of the Government of Greece to decide. That's the difference. We want us here in Galicia to decide, not that we don't act in the general administration of the state. If the General Administration of the State promotes an action that Galicia seems to be of general interest to you, Galicia decides. And not as you did, who left you the last word in granting the extension of the Age for sixty years, and little ones; that the reform of the Law of backs which you permitted, that the last word in the stay of the Enc in the stream of Pontevedra, such an important matter for this country, had decided there, and the Board of Galicia had nothing to say. An environmental report that was negative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u45	...the last word was the word of the state. So by concluding: once again the People's Party has focused on the same shortcomings that the urban policy of this country has been having and thanks to the action and arguments put on the table by Alternative Left Galicia, at least, it will not come out of an optimal text, nor an optimal solution, but it will come out of a rather improved solution than the People's Party initially wanted to introduce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I very much appreciate the intervention of the People's Party because it comes to our point. And the truth is, that happens, in the debate you can have most, but you're not right, because it's not only good to vote, but you have to have arguments that justify that what you're defending makes more sense than what you're defending others. And in that sense, his arguments about the entry into force because what they're coming to show is that this is a covert amendment of the Land Law. It's a covert modification of the Land Law, we all know. It's just that I don't recognize reality I think it's an act that only leads to foolishness in politics. But in any case, you'll see what they want to do. We found that this law, which is the amendment of an article of the Law of the Land, with the current numbering, the 147, because the law that the Government presents does not apply to the PP, which amends it in substantial matters. And we denounce and say it because of responsibility in this chamber, so they can think about it before they want to go ahead with this law or if it's not best to stop and reflect, and it has legal problems. And I asked and no one answered: Why has the ESC report not been submitted? When it is clear in the justification of the law that it is for the "economic and social interest", when Article 5 of the Economic and Social Council says that draft laws and projects governing socio-economic matters directly linked to Galicia's economic and social development must be reported by the ESC. Why didn't you do it? When there is a transparency law that obliges projects to be posted on the website, why not? When the Local Administration Act also requires a consultation with the Local Cooperation Council, why not, when it has a very clear impact on municipal competences. No argument, it's not serious, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counselor. Because any citizen can denounce this law. And you're once again in danger of defects in such a way that you put legal security at risk in the field of urbanism. It's not serious, it's not responsible and, above all, it doesn't seem to us that an administration can violate the principles that mark a law, by the vast majority that you have here. And we present alternatives as is our obligation. Because if we didn't present any alternatives, they would also criticize us for not presenting it. So we think we have to put on the table the problems we see and also alternatives and solutions. And we put different alternatives, which I'm sorry Mr. Castineira hadn't read carefully, because he did here a description of the BNG proposals that aren't accurate. It's part of the policy of manipulation that they're used to, but I have to say and not accept a frame and a wrong reading of the proposals that BNG makes. We say that the council has to have a month, and that this deadline can be extended by the request of the council, depending on the nature or complexity of the project for identical time periods; that is, it can be two months. I think it's important when we have a debate about what we're talking about and what we're reading about. We say that counseling... that it is who promotes the project, because it is not forgotten that anyone who gives this law to decide which projects are made by or not by 144 is unique and solely counseling, so we say that if counseling is the promoter, counseling is who must resolve the process of public participation; that it should not only be published in an official bulletin from a province, but must be published in the Official Journal of Galicia and in the most widely circulated newspapers in the county where the project is located, as well as on the board website of Galicia. So also important differences in how we conceive information and participation, which should not just be a process, because we know that posting things in a province's official newsletter has a much more limited scope when talking about this project. And, therefore, we understand that this is important. It's not even a minor matter who's going to pay for the expropriations of a project. It's a fundamental question. And there is no reason or argument for the municipalities by virtue of this law to be obliged to make expropriations of any project of these characteristics. And we justify it by competence issues and by economic issues. It looks like an aberration to us and it's going to create a lot of problems in urbanism, and otherwise, time to time, and problems in many municipalities. So we give an alternative to municipal autonomy, public participation, which requires that all plans have to be evaluated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u48	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u49	...of environmental impact and therefore many greater guarantees from the point of view of legal security and participation. Because it turns out to me – and I end with this – very curious, Mr Castineira, that the People's Party is now criminalizing the projects of supra-municipal incidence because they are anti-democratic. It was about the performance he said. It looks very good to us. So they suppress that anti-democratic project of supra-municipal incidence that wants to consolidate Ence in the Pontevedra stream, or they ask for forgiveness for an illegal plan of supra-municipal incidences, which wanted us all to pay the expenses of the Barriers builders, who destroyed that council, made themselves gold and left a very serious problem in that administration. And I'm going to tell them, the BNG against all the institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u51	...that agreement between the People's Party and the Socialist Party, which is very clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u53	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Before entering the amendment of the People's Party, which is the one that will take me longer, I will try to fix our position briefly on the amendments of the other groups. It is clear that we will have to vote against the amendment to return the Joint Group, because it is in complete contradiction with the proposals that we have tabled in this plenary. It is clear that we cannot vote in favour of the amendment to the entire AGE Group, although we agree and we can accept and reach agreements in many of the issues it raises, such as the increase in exposure deadlines to the public or that it is approved by the full corporation. But there are two elements that make the agreement impossible for us right now: One is the requirement in all cases of environmental strategic assessment. The strategic environmental assessment must be required in cases where it is a requirement, but not in all cases. The strategic environmental assessment in all cases would imply that, for example, the Vigo Plan would have to take a year if it went through the process of modification or brief, and at least two years if it was complete. So they'd put us completely out of the stage where we have to be. And there's also a point where we disagree, which I'll talk about when we talk about PP, which is the condition of expropriating administrations. With regard to the amendment of the Block, we cannot vote for it either, because even if it seems right to us, and it is also true that this is actually a covert amendment of article 147, and, Mr. Castineira, you, when you denied the evidence, reality has acknowledged the evidence. That is, this law must enter into force on 20 March, because if it had entered into force tomorrow or last morning, the entry into force of the Law of the ground would nullify this law because it opposes the content of article 147. Neither is the problem with the extension of the report, with the public information, but if there is that extension of deadlines, and there is also a discrepancy about who might be expropriating. I'm going into the People's Party. On the one hand, it incorporates the public information phase. That's good. It's true that he makes it fall on the Town Hall. Not so well anymore, because we're talking about a topic not of local interest -- I repeat -- of general interest, declared by the board of directors. But, in the end, what's a lot of work, whose job is it? To the municipalities. That's right. This is a story like that of the beaten ass: the job at the ass, in this case at the Town Hall. All the allegations have been resolved. But to us, it seems quite unfair, it can even be reasonable, because in the end, the municipality is the closest administration to citizens and to which it is in better condition to know the transcendence of these problems. Where is the real problem that we see to this bill? It is mandatory that the council be the expropriating administration, that the council be the beneficiary of expropriation and that the council have to transfer the property expropriated to the promoter of action. The bill clearly states in a paragraph: "The council will expropriate land and transfer after the promoter organ." Let's see what the Law says about forced expropriation. The Law of Compulsory Expropriation provides that forced expropriation can only be agreed by the State, the Self-Government, the Provincial Deputies or the Town Councils. Only the territorial administration can, is enabled to execute and approve the mandatory administration. I repeat again: universities and consortia have no power of expropriation. They may be beneficiaries of expropriation, which is what Article 2(2) says: "They may also be beneficiaries of forced expropriation because of public utility entities and concessionaries to which this condition is legally recognised". So it's normal to expropriate the municipality, but it's not normal for the municipality to be the beneficiary of expropriation, that must be open because the municipality will have the possibility, the power to agree with the real beneficiary of expropriation. No, no, you can't here because the beneficiary's legal imperative is the Town Hall; the resources are against the Town Hall and the justice is against the Town Hall. So, ladies and gentlemen, we here are going to offer an unequivocal demonstration that we want to support the projects that are now in danger go ahead. So we're going to defend our amendment, and if our amendment doesn't prosper, we're going to vote for the amendment of the People's Party, but make it clear that we're accepting octopus as a pet. I hope Vigo's citizens understand that we do this by defending the general interests of citizens and putting them above our own criteria and making them seem. But, PP gentlemen, as are most and as are the Government, we're going to have to swallow that octopus is pet, right? That's the truth of what they're making us swallow. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u54	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u55	Mr. Bugallo, the octopus must eat Lugo to St. Froilán, and let's leave the pet animal, it's a great animal to put on the plate. They're telling me about Ourense that Carballino also eats well. But well, said this, I want, of course, and I'm going to start with the subject of expropriations. Indeed, we already agree on something, in which the Town Hall must be the expropriating organ, the expropriating administration. And then the subject of the beneficiary, you said here, Mr. Bugallo, you said, what larger weapon does the Town Hall have to report binding?, when the Town Hall finds that this is not interesting to itself, for its municipal interests, it has the power to not report favourably. The normal thing is, when it comes to the project, as we said, is a collaboration between different administrations, and, therefore, Mr. Bugallo, this is covered by the corresponding agreements, which you know was mayor of Santiago and, of course, this kind of Santiago agreement benefited from a series of important ones, and tell me, who ended up paying off the expropriations depending on what it was? They're agreements between different administrations for a public good, and it's how it's done, and it's how it works, and it's normal. Because public money comes out of the same place, from the citizens' pocket, whether it's from the board or from the council, and so when we talk about a project of general interest, we're talking about it, but, of course, even if it's of interest to the whole of Galicia, it's also of special interest to the council where it affects. If we talk about Vigo's subject, the Pontevedra Council has no power to report on it, it has the power of binding report to the Vigo Council, which is what participates in these negotiations. I'd just miss it! But that's how, therefore, listen, we can take the opposite and say no, is that the Town Hall has the benefit and let's pass the ball to the others, let's pay the rest of the Greeks. No, look, the logic is that it's done in agreement and together between all administrations, and in that sense it goes. And then I would ask that my words not be manipulated. I didn't say, at least, that it was a little change, I mean the explanation of what a whole amendment means when there's a single reading topic, as we're here. In a single-reading bill any changes, no matter how small it may be, it's not the case, but I didn't say it. Don't manipulate, Mr. Sánchez, don't manipulate that you're used to taking a word and turning it around and seeing if you're with him, it's not, it's not! And this is not a little – not much less – change, but this amendment that the People's Party brings here, that the Popular Party's Parliamentary Group brings here, we take it to P.O. and you say no. The same, exactly the same, were the sectoral reports, yes, read them!, exactly the same, and the environmental impact assessment is a sectoral report, and Mr. Bugallo acknowledged – and the others also recognized it, because it was so – that he himself posed, and you too, the topic of public exposure. We can talk about it, there's no problem accepting it, that's what they said, and you said no, because if they said no, they don't explain why they said no, and they're going to have to explain it to the affected neighbours and citizens of all Galicia, not only Vigo's, because they affected all citizens. I wanted to say another subject that you say, and it is that here if you withdrew because the law went well without Article 198 of the Land Law, without Article 198, but a simple sentence changed everything. Calling a simple judgement to a Supreme Court ruling that takes forward the plan – nothing more and nothing less – general greater than Galicia, man!, that's a lot to say, a simple sentence. And a simple sentence that is, with others, generating jurisprudence – which can take forward another piece of general plans, by some means all practically informed at the time of the Bipartite –, aren't you saying anything, right? So what he's putting on, and what we're trying to put on, is a solution, why? Because logically before there was no such problem, and logically there was no such need, so no one amended, it was something that survived the moment it was being debated. And you say that there's going to be a better solution than I wanted to introduce the PP, I repeat it again, exactly the same as we discussed, and that we would approve a few days ago and that it would be incorporated into the article now 144, because you didn't accept it, in AGE. If you accepted it, the BNG gentlemen would allow the debate, which was what you asked us to do, to admit the procedure to debate, to reach agreements and, of course, to have that will. Those who said they wouldn't have to defend him, say and justify why. But if so much from your point of view you think we take your proposals, I don't care, we want to pass the law and of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u56	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u57	...I'd tell you to vote in favour, since you think we're copying yours. Listen, if so, I vote in favour. And Mrs Pontón, as far as the deadlines are concerned, read it because you place – and forgive only a second, Mr President – in the exhibition for a month and extension for deadlines, not for a period, for periods of the same time. Time is an indeterminate number, two, three, four. When you tell me deadlines, Mrs. Pontón, because indeterminate urgency would be determined by non-emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u58	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Comprehensive discussion of the Galician Social Economy Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u59	This bill has been amended to the full, in particular, of the Joint Parliamentary Group, of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For the presentation of the bill, the economic, employment and industry advisor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure for me to be able to present to you today the Galician Social Economy Bill, the first legislation on autonomy that regulates a key sector for the model of social growth and cohesion that we are building for Galicia, a sector that, as you know, brings together more than 7,000 entities and 300,000 people; and therefore, a sector that we understand from the Government that deserves a legal, solid and global framework to make the most of its potential. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, it is a satisfaction that with this new Galician law it is the first Autonomous Community to achieve a legal framework for each and every one of our social entities. A framework which is in line with state law and, above all, which is also in line with the conclusions of the Council of the Union, Epssco, on the promotion of social economy, the Council attended last December 7 on behalf of all the autonomous Spanish communities and which allowed to put the common position in favour of this sector and place Galicia in particular with this pioneering law. In this sense, I would like to point out that the rule that we present certifying the Alliance of Galicia's commitment to the economy and social entrepreneurship, and that this commitment also coincides with Europe in the spirit of creating an ecosystem in favour of its development. That is why the law reflects full support for the whole sector, from a normative point of view, from the point of view of support for entrepreneurship, finance and also innovation. Thus, the law will promote actions that improve the visibility and knowledge of the social economy, bringing together the values of equity and solidarity that promote our society. It will also enhance its expansion through an appropriate, modern and flexible regulatory framework, which will take into account the particularities of the sector and facilitate the creation of social enterprises. The law will also link the initiatives we are developing in terms of entrepreneurship and employment, the opportunities offered by the social economy model. It will facilitate specific sources of funding that will help create more projects that enhance the well-being of workers and civil society, and will also promote the processes of improving innovation, innovation in processes, innovation in products, which will therefore improve the competitiveness of our sector and also its sustainability. In all these axes, ladies and gentlemen, the German Government has been working for a long time, it is necessary to remember here everything that has been done until now with special emphasis on the drive to cooperativeism; an impulse to cooperativeism through a line of assistance specific to collective entrepreneurship that complements the various instruments available through Igape, in support of finance, investment instruments, innovation and also internationalization, and also with the creation of the network, in sumo, which, as you know, was created in 2012 to promote cooperativeism and the social economy. A growth of the cooperatives that, in addition, we hope to strengthen since the Galician Union with the new strategy 2016-2020, which we are currently consensual with economic and social agents, because it is a clear bet for innovation, the opening of new markets and, ladies and gentlemen, also a clear bet to increase the size of our cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the future of Galicia faces different challenges, and we know that many of these challenges are on the way to them. In Galicia our economy is growing, unemployment is falling, social security membership is rising, exports are breaking records every year, and the industrial production index is also improving above the average in Spain. So now we are to achieve more stability, more equality and more quality in employment, because the goal must be that Galicia is a more attractive territory to work, to invest and to live with. And in that context, of course, the social economy plays a very important role in this idea of transformation and modernization of our productive fabric. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this law will allow all the tools and initiatives to be made available to the sector so that, in fact, we can improve the conditions for the growth of the thousands of German entities that are part of the social economy sector. I am referring, as you know, to the co-operative societies of Greece, to working societies, to employment companies and special employment centres, to processing societies, to communities of neighbouring towns in common, to confrereres of fishermen, mutualities or any other entity that pursues the interests of the collectives that integrate them, the general interest, or both, as they know, and as they carry out an economic and business activity. All of them will have this law to support their development and, of course, they will all have the political commitment so that we can actually respond to their challenges: challenges to create quality jobs, with more time-consuming flexibility, with a less hierarchical wage structure and, above all, with certain job security. A law that facilitates the integration of people with difficulties in the labour market, a law that provides socially innovative products and services, and a law that promotes more sustainable development, and which is attached to the potential of each territory. Because its basis, the basis of this law, lies in the primacy of the rights of persons and of the needs and of existing resources; a value without equal that the Government considers it deserves a differentiated treatment, which is precisely the object of recognition in the Law of the Social Economy which I present to you tomorrow. Before I went to describe the measures of this bill, I wanted you to take into account the process that gave rise to the text that we have in our hands. The Galician Union submitted public information on the content of the project at the beginning of 2015, receiving a dozen allegations that were analysed to improve the rule currently under discussion. Among the arrivals are those issued by the Galego Council of Cooperatives, which – as you know – represents one of the majority entities within the social economy sector, and also the allegations made by the Galego Council of Labour Relations, which – as you know – is the body that leads to the valuation of business and trade union organisations. Even so, the project relies on the dictates of the Economic and Social Council, which also facilitates the participation of socio-economic agents and representatives of civil society in Galicia. He also made contributions to the Galego Council of Welfare, and of course the text was also submitted to the report of the sectoral councils with competences, and all had the opportunity to speak on the content of this law, giving rise to important changes and improvements to the initial text. So we have a rule, ladies and gentlemen, that comes from the will of agreement, and that comes from the collaboration of all the economic and social agents of the community of Galicia's Union itself. A law that has been drafted and made with economic and social agents, and with the sector, a law that is ultimately intended to be useful, to be pragmatic and to give concrete solutions to the sector itself. In that sense, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that Galician Social Economy Act provides an opportunity for, firstly, to legally delineate the requirements that must be met by the members, but also an opportunity to lay the groundwork for their support. That is why the text presented is two areas. On the one hand, it conceptualizes and integrates the sector, which they know is so far scattered. And, on the other hand, to also devise the measures necessary to promote the social economy. We will therefore give legislative coverage with the rank of law to promote not only awareness, visibility and participation, but also, as I told them, the very concept and integration of the sector. We take the decision to create the Galician Catalogue of Social Economic Institutions, a catalogue that will facilitate the knowledge and recognition of private organizations, organizations that develop economic and business activities based on the values of responsibility and commitment, and also with people at the internal level, such as society and the environment. Secondly, the Galician Social Economic Council was set up, a council which will have the task of facilitating the representation of the sector to the administrations and other interested groups. The Galician Social Economy Council will play a role not only in drawing up studies, reports and proposals, but also in formulating and promoting different initiatives to enable greater business cooperation and to collaborate in the integration of the social economy into the Galician Union's own public policies, especially in policies aimed at promoting employment, entrepreneurship or local and rural development. And also the law will allow the proper promotion of the full application of the principles of the social economy and the law. But secondly, the law will also allow us to incorporate important aspects, through which the Government and its own government commit themselves to act to promote the social economy. I am talking about specific aspects, such as the simplification of administrative procedures for these entities, a simplification of procedures that will be made through a computer application that will allow for registration by means of telematics. It will also introduce the social economy into the study plans through the development of teaching units, adapted to each educational level, and the provision of training, with a practical approach in the different centers. Thirdly, it will allow social economy entities to guide active employment policies, with a view to considering their demands. It will also amend the Law of Cooperatives, to regulate the figure of the youth cooperative, consisting mostly of boys and girls between 16 and 29 years of age. A modification of the Cooperatives Act which will reduce the minimum social capital required to 300 euros, compared with the 3,000 ordinary cooperatives. And they'll allow cooperatives to enter the constitution into a private document, while the rest of cooperatives – as you know – must be set up through a public document, generating notary expenses. Finally, but not least, it's a law that plans to achieve instruments suitable for the launch of new collective enterprise projects. I am talking about microcredit programmes, through funding lines with financial institutions, and the creation of a venture capital fund, which adds to the current aid for the financing and promotion of the social economy, which are already being developed by the Economic, Employment and Industry Council this year, with an allocation of EUR 5.4 million. In fact, Your Honor, we have already articulated a line of Xesgalia to strengthen projects linked to the social economy, which is endowed with 5 million euros. In addition, we are working on access by these companies to subsidized loans and microcredit, which are negotiated from the Igape to also encourage small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises. And we do it again, with the focus on rural entrepreneurship and youth entrepreneurship, because we understand that rural and young people must be a priority objective of this law, as well as the need for these entities to open up to new markets, and that these entities can also increase their size. And in order to comply with the normative text, we will develop a specific action plan in the coming months by 2020, which will be agreed with the Social Economy Council itself. So, and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the future of Galicia is a future that is being settled on important pillars such as entrepreneurship, innovation, industry 4.0, internationalization or competitiveness in all its facets. Stones that are already part of our economy, because they are the commitment of this government, along with our entrepreneurs, workers and entrepreneurs. I have achieved this, Your Honor, the turn is now to take on new challenges, centered on the integration and cohesion of our society. So we have to move towards greater business plurality and the diversification of our economy to generate more job opportunities with quality. That's why we must support cooperatives, mutuals, associations, foundations and other companies of social economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u62	All of them, ladies and gentlemen, have demonstrated their ability to contribute effectively to the valorization of economic activity, but especially have also demonstrated their ability to contribute to a greater distribution of income, a more equitable distribution, also through the correction of labour market imbalances and the strengthening of economic democracy. What makes it essential, ladies and gentlemen, to promote the expansion of the social economy in Galicia, and, of course, this law is the necessary tool to start that path, which we hope to count on the arrivals and contributions of all groups of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u63	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u64	Thank you, President. Well, I've heard the counselor, I don't know if I have a different bill, Counselor – I've met a different text that's not the same as you – pass it to me, because I have another one, because I really have one, because what I read neither regulates the social economy, nor counts with all the entities of the social economy, so I get the doubt. The project I read from the Law of Social Economy doesn't respond to the expectations its title promises, limits its content to the creation of the Council of Social Economy of Galicia and marking general goals. This limitation of the project is already established in the first article, where it is said that as the only object of this bill – recognised – is to regulate the entities that integrate the social economy into Galicia. Point, that's where the object of this law ends; therefore, everything he told us must be in his imagination, or I don't know where, but the object of this bill is not. We understand that this bill must have as its aim to recognize, but also to encourage and encourage the entities that are part of the social economy sector, by offering them mechanisms to facilitate the organization and expansion of social economy activity. It should also require that social economy entities be understood as an effective system that contributes to the country's social and economic development, to the decent work generation, to the strengthening of democracy, to gender equality, to the equitable distribution of income and to the greatest generation of social heritage. None of these objectives or any of these actions that contribute to the social economy are recognized in the bill, and I'm called attention, and I think that even with alarm, which does not include gender equality, when we take all the legislation talking about the transversal character of gender equality, and I think that, precisely, these entities have an important role in this sense. It is also revealing that Article 3 defines the social economy as a set of economic and business activities, not taking into account the entities whose activity falls into the social sphere, which are also part of the social economy. The bill doesn't even dedicate an article to promoting the social economy, as if it were produced by spontaneous and cost-free generation. It is such the limitation of this bill and its lack of content, that in its additional fourth provision it states that this law will not have an economic endowment for its development. It seems incredible that any law can develop without financial resources. It is clear that we are faced with a new law of propaganda, an impossible law to carry forward, a law that is useless to nothing, except that when they make their election campaign for the next elections to the German Parliament, they draw it out as one of the laws that the People's Party approves by their initiative, but empty of content and which is useless at all. It does not even guarantee compensation for representation costs for assistance and participation to all social economy entities, which represents a rebuttable declaration of intent. We're talking about social-economic entities, not large millionaires, with a lot of benefits, and yet we can't even compensate for the expenses these entities may have in their work at the Social Economic Council and for their attendance at meetings. Nor does it deal with the draft law on who is responsible, for example, for how actions – which seem important to us – will be done, as it is to implement the Galician policy of promotion and development of the social economy sector; who will provide favourable conditions for the growth and consolidation of the social economy sector; to formulate and implement public support programmes and projects for the promotion, promotion and development of the sector; or to carry out studies and research. You talked about research in the field of the social economy and the support you will have, and in the bill none of that appears. These studies and research to be developed, therefore, to enable the knowledge of the reality of the entities that make up the sector and its contour, to best meet its objectives. Nor promote the consolidation and organizational development of the various forms of associations that integrate the sector, establishing the signing of coordination agreements with the units of the autonomous public administration, as well as the local administration. Or spread values, principles and ends of the sector, as well as its main associative business achievements. None of this – which really emphasizes the activity of social economy entities and regulates their functioning and the support of the administration to them – appears in this bill. The draft law, as set out in Article 15, understands that the Eusumo Network is the instrument for promoting cooperativeism and the social economy. It is something that is clear, the Eusumo Network, precisely, has been created as an instrument for promoting cooperative work and labour societies, but we forget about the rest of the social economy. All you do is reduce to this economic and business field all social economy entities. It also establishes a Council of Social Economy of Galicia, whose creation seems to be the object of this bill, but to which no optional or binding functions are given, even though its reports would represent the conclusions of all entities of Galicia's social economy. That is, on the one hand, you ask him to make reports, reports of his own sphere of the social economy, of what they need or understand would be good for the social economy in his development. But it's not binding, it's just going to consider an opinion that won't force the Government at all. Despite the provisions of article 9.3 of the State Law 5/2011 – which you say is also in line with this state social economy law – this bill excludes from Galicia's social economy entities trade and business organizations, so the Catalogue of social economy entities will not count on the representation, for example, of the working class. Something that is incomprehensible, that the German Government intends to organize social economic formulas without counting on the main actors of it: the workers and the workers, the working class. There is no social economy without a working class, and you – of course – have no regard for their representation at all. Law 17/2008, of institutional participation of Galicia's most representative trade union and business organizations, recognizes to these organizations their involvement in the social and economic life of our country. However, this Social Economy Law Project envisages its participation in the Galician Social Economy Council with a collective representation that eliminates the right of each trade union and business organization more representative to have one member of its own. Trade union organizations, basically business organisations, don't always meet the same criteria. And, therefore, if there are three more representative trade union organizations in Galicia in this case, they should each have their collective representation, as set out in Law 17/2008 on the basis of that recognition made to them. It is also incomprehensible to not include in the Galician Social Economy Council, the representation by feminist organizations of the Directorate-General for Equality and other key agents or organizations in the field of the social economy. It is incomprehensible – and we will also talk in this plenary about institutional machismo. Only institutional machismo can forget to include feminist organizations and the Directorate-General for Equality in a social economy bill, when it is fundamental – and we say it many times, precisely because of these problems of women's equal access to jobs – precisely that these social economy entities are able to set an example of how equality can be carried out in social economy projects and, therefore, in any business or social project. Thus, within other organizations or agents that do not appear collected as entities that are part of the social economy, the same happens with feminist organizations and NGOs. Entities that have great experience in the field of the social economy and that are now supplicating the actions that governments should be doing around the world in the field of social economy. Thanks precisely to NGOs, many social economy initiatives are being taken forward all over the world without the support of governments, which do not care about them. So we think it's an empty law of content. The refund amendment does not come precisely because we are against a law of social economy, but we are against a law of propaganda that does not respond to the interests or emergencies of social economy entities at all. It doesn't even respond to the interests and emergencies of society in general. You spoke here of the benefits of this law, which, of course, seems almost a scandal that comes to tell us here the axillization of all the procedures with new technologies. Okay, it's time for new technologies to be used, that's not a merit for government, that's where new technologies are there, the normal thing is that they're used. But that must already be almost given in any kind of law, that all proceedings will have their axillization and processing through new technologies. And as for youth cooperatives, I think they're being harmed in this bill in relation to the regulations on youth cooperatives in many of their aspects, which will be presented as partial amendments to this law, if, as you suppose, the absolute majority of the People's Party will pass and pass this bill. As for the other performances – you really said it – this law is pending that in the coming months the Government has the right to develop it. For now it's nothing but a poor, poor, intent-declaration, and a rich, rich, and publicity campaign of the People's Party. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u66	Thank you, President, Members. In view of the need to regulate this important field which is the social economy – and it is supposed to be an opportunity to do it well, and yet it seems that this is a new missed opportunity in a legal text – virtually the only one that regulates is a catalogue and advice, is practically the only one that regulates this legal text. It's a law with an ideological body alienated from what is the social economy itself. It must be framed within the economic and social situation that Galicia now lives, with 672,000 people at risk of poverty and exclusion, with a risk of poverty of more than 17 per cent, with 13 per cent of poor workers and workers, with a number of busy and busy people who have fallen 17 per cent since you rule, with incomes of 20 per cent of the wealthiest people, who already account for 4.5 times the poorest people's income, and with an increase in child, youth and female poverty: we have over 236,000 unemployed people and 151,000 people already living in situations of severe material poverty. And in these circumstances, precisely, the Law of Social Economy is not or must not be a tool to do what the Government does not do, which is to create employment, but a tool to help alleviate the situation of inequality. The social economy must not therefore be understood as a set of economic and business activities that pursue a collective good, or at least not just like that, which is precisely what defines the text of this law. If the Government were another, if it were bet on the reality of the common good that means the social economy, it would understand the social economy itself as an agent of change, of social transformation, as an agent of economic transformation and a tool of sharing wealth; therefore a tool of economic and social democratization. However, the spirit of this bill is just the opposite, the business and the competitiveness that come reflected not only in the intervention of the adviser himself, but in the text itself; they are the antithesis, in addition, of the spirit of what the social economy means. I was talking about the adviser of business plurality, of a source of employment, of things that are not precisely the objectives of the social economy. In the explanatory statement it is quite clear what is the corpus of this law that serves this Government and why this Government understands the social economy. They put the Lisbon Strategy in front of everything as the basis of this law, which is designed to facilitate the transfer of public resources to private, to facilitate precisely inequality, to facilitate privatization. The Lisbon Strategy was the basis for cutting down public spending, theorizing privatization and the elimination of the state of well-being, theorizing the reduction of economic social benefits to the majority, theorizing labour market regulation and putting forward business benefits on social benefits and the majority; and that's the basis that the People's Party takes to make the Law of Social Economy. Those are, in addition, the recipes that brought us to where we are, to this scam crisis that gives those figures with which I started this introduction. And so it's obvious that they can't be the basis of any social economy law. Liberalism is antithetic to the sharing of wealth, the common good, and therefore incompatible with the concept of social economy itself; unless what this Government wants is that the functioning of the social economy in our country is based on the liberal economy or the functioning of companies. And in this sense, this is exactly what we are presenting with the amendment of restitution, an amendment which also refers to the poverty of the law. As he referred to the principle of intervention, as he also denounced, in addition, the Galician Economic and Social Council. Declaration of intent in the explanatory statement, which finally serves the text only, practically, is to regulate the existence of a Council of Social Economy of Galicia, which is precisely that chapter III, and which is the central part of the law. A new council more integrated in the Public Service, with a fairly evident control of the Public Administration, eight people who are part of the Administration, but in addition the visible head is the same advisor – or advisor at another time – as the general directors. I mean, really, where is the autonomy of social entities? A council that will practically control that functioning of the Administration and which, however, obvious the presence – as has already been said – of trade union representatives in incomprehensible ways. In fact, it was one of the most repeated claims to the text by the various organisms, and it became deaf ears, only one person for all trade union organizations. And the excuse for the government not to change this in the bill is amazing, says that the nature of entities is different from that of private companies. And yet it can be observed that we could understand the presence of the party – let us say – more similar to the employer with the presence of the representation of the insertion companies, of the labor societies, etc. However, there is no representation space for those who have the role of defending the rights of workers and workers. It must be remembered that people from special employment centres, people with functional or cognitive diversity who also work in social institutions, have labour rights, Counsellor. And so we've already had a debate on situations where the rights of these people were not respected, and they have the right to have representatives of these workers and workers on that Social Economy Council as well. And yet, precisely, it is very striking when the Administration reserves so much control in that council that there is no presence – as has been said – of the General Secretariat of Equality or of someone coming from the world of equality, not even of the Administration. It is quite striking that it is the General Secretariat of Equality itself that claims to be present in the organ and the Board itself – which is of the same Government and, in addition, of the same party – to which it denies that presence. Not a single reference in the Law of Social Economy as a tool against the inequality we suffer from women. I wonder, where is the work of the People's and Government's Party for equality? And where is that cross-section? This is incompatible with the concept of social economy itself as an integrating agent and a democratizing agent. Where are the women? Where is the fight against inequality as the central one? About half the members of cooperatives and the social economy are women, and there is not even a reference in the law to this aspect. If you understood the concept of work as a contribution to society and not merely as an economic enrichment, we should even be talking here and discussing the work of care, because in the end even if it is not paid, we could also talk about it within the social economy. But we don't ask them so much anymore, we don't even get to that point, we know they don't have the ability to get to that debate, but at least the law has a gender perspective. It's incomprehensible that a social economy law has no kind of gender perspective, it doesn't. Furthermore, there is no budget, not even – as already stated here – to pay the diets, that is, the displacements of the people who are going to have to go to meet that Social Economic Council, is absolutely incredible! A bill that makes explicit in the additional fourth provision that there will be no budgetary increase or even for that Social Economic Council, in addition to the request of the Galician Council itself; i.e., the Board itself puts obstacles to the budget necessary to develop the law, we do not understand what the purpose of the law is therefore. We don't understand. It has no budget and, on the other hand, however, it has a very worrying liberal corpus, I have just referred to it, but which supports another kind of economic model. Article 17, "Initiation of new initiatives of social economy"l. I was referring to you, Counselor, above. Point 2: "The access of small and medium-sized enterprises in the Greek social economy to microcredit or venture capital funds will be stimulated." Risk capital funds for the social economy. This is the social model of the People's Party, so let's shake up, the liberal economy as a model, as a basis for the social economy. It's an oximoron in which truth insults intelligence. It's incompatible with one thing and the other. Because, on the contrary, the People's Party forgets what is the economic role and support of the Administration for the social economy, what is it for? The social economy, what's it for? What can you serve us for? At first, it's a tool for social and economic transformation, for the redistribution of wealth, not a tool for the liberal economy. And the administration that bets as a tool of transformation for the social economy must serve as an facilitator, not to control the social economy, but to put economic resources, on the one hand, to drive, is nowhere in the explicit law as the social economy will be driven. I'd like to know what kind of action they're going to take. But besides, to facilitate other kinds of resources of the most varied, they can be even places to meet, places to set up social economy entities, administrative facilities, that is, a number of things to talk about. You laugh, you make a lot of fun of it, but there are a lot of things that need to be worked out in the social economy, which do not appear in the law, and which, however, should be made easier for the Administration: economic support and support for administrative measures and support by the Administration itself to promote that utility of the social economy, which is not to replace the work that you do not do in job creation, it is not. And for more abundance, they use the law to introduce final provisions that modify the conditions of social entities to access social services management. We are not against this rule, but it does not seem to us that the final provisions of a law are the method that the Government has to use to modify those access conditions. A change that suits this law and which, in fact, is quite amazing. We must remind the People's Party that this parliamentary group yesterday also signed a bill that specifically affects public services in social services. A bill that equates public services, private concerts and social concerts. Are you going this way, too, the German Government? Is this the point? Because he came in yesterday by register and I think it's a real barbarity, I wonder, what are they playing at? The basis is the same for everything, emptying the public and using social entities in an aidealistic manner to supplement the work the Administration has to do, not as a tool for sharing wealth and sharing equality for women, for people with worse economic conditions and worse social conditions. We understand that in this sense the law must be returned in order to be able to build among all, and taking into account the cooperatives, social entities and, of course, the associative tissue of the country. A law that meets the real needs and a law that makes use of the social economy as a tool for real transformation, not as a basis for the liberal economy of the People's Party. I mean, it seems to me that the Lisbon Strategy is the basis of the model that the People's Party has for the social economy. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u68	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. After several laws already processed from his counseling, almost a conclusion we should draw after reading this text is that legislate is free, absolutely free. The zero cost law, without concrete measures, actually took note of all the exposure you have made, and you will tell us exactly later in the replica shift which are the concrete measures that this law has and which are, respectively, the financing mechanisms that it proposes to the law. It costs zero, without concrete measures, and which has two objectives: first, to create a council, one more body, which we would also like to explain to this body, so that a law to create an organism, really; and second, to modify the Social Services Act, which would be really important, if it is necessary to modify the Social Services Act, that the first dimension is changed in one law itself. We have just come up with a debate on an amendment to a law that was approved in the previous plenary, with which any text could be sent from the Social Services Council itself for the amendment of that law and to allow that debate, not by a law that is entitled "Social Economy of Galicia." That's the first thing to draw our attention to, if there can be some kind of social economy. I will take the first reflection in the project's explanatory statement, where it says exactly: "The institutions of the European Union have repeatedly expressed the importance of the social economy, which contributes to a sustainable economic model where people are more important than capital." It's true that words have the hand of anything. Because the European Union has focused on people, not on capital, the economy right now is not that it is contradictory, but that it is absolutely, almost, a coat of hair. Because really the economic design established by the European Union, which emanates from the European Union and which assumes the different governments, is not based either on redistribution, social justice, or on people, but solely on capital and capital accumulation. So when it is already assumed in the explanatory statement that the European Union is designing what the social economy is, well, that word is quite captivating. What does social economy mean? Nothing more than regular, and without getting to the regular, Counsellor, but making statements of intent on social initiative, cooperativeism and the third sector. But there's really no strategy towards an alternative economic model. Besides, after several debates during this legislation, you and I know that your paradigm is not an alternative model in the economy. And that this comes to be, simply, because a sort of patch, a sort of patch, a way of understanding the economy based not on people, but basically on capital. That is why this is the first general reflection, with regard to the fact that it is great that they called it a social economy, but no kind of structure is changed, the economic foundations are not really modified, which were also referred to during these three and a half years of legislation by the Government of Mr Feijóo. But if we've already left that different kind of paradigm model, based on social justice and capital accumulation, and we're going to the law in particular, the first thing that draws attention is that you say there are concrete measures. What exactly are they – it would be good to have this debate, and in addition to going to the Phoenician process, this text, which I suppose will pass through the People's Party's votes – really, the measures proposed in chapter IV of this bill? In which, apart from encouraging, empowering, but what rights and obligations do you have with legal reach really create this law? That's the question. What measures, in particular, to create obligations and to create rights does this law have? Because, of course, we see that an important space is being devoted to creating a Council of Social Economy in Galicia. And really, is there a need for a law to create a Galician Social Economic Council that aims, literally, to study and make reports? First objective: to advise; second: to issue reports; third: to prepare studies; fourth: to collaborate in the elaboration and evaluation of programmes; five: to formulate proposals; sixth: to guide; seventh: to advise; eighth: to ensure the promotion and proper application of the principles of the social economy which collect this law; and, well, lastly, because all those who are entrusted to it. That is to say, a Council of Social Economy of Galicia is absolutely empty of content when the ESC itself in its report says that they have similarities, indeed, because we constantly duplicate the non-necessary entities and each law has to draw up a council, it has to formulate a more advisory body, report issuance, study development, collaboration in the evaluation of programmes, formulation; then, when we see its composition, in addition to what the previous Members told me in the use of the word, it becomes a child, the union representatives are missing, the equality officer is, in fact, missing, who is also asking us to explain how possible it is. I should like to point out that this group and this honourable Member, in particular, are quite critical of the gender impact reports. I think gender impact reports are almost a little guide to good practice, but as a duty to recognize work when it's not done. Here the General Secretariat of Equality has endeavoured to make a gender impact report, which I suppose you would read, where you do an analysis of the White Paper on Cooperativeism, and which, in fact, of the impact – as Mrs Solla has already explained – of the gender perspective in the formation of cooperatives, as they exist as cooperativeism and essentially women, and the need to include concrete measures with regard to the promotion of cooperativeism and gender equality. Well, curiously, Counsellor, nothing is collected in the law, there is no specific paragraph, there is no article dedicated to it, it is not dedicated to it or even so... - and I am going to read in particular what the gender impact report says - nor is it even collected that it is added to Article 11 by a person representing the board competent in the field of equality, because that is not added. Incomprehensible! If there's a lot of government people there, with all due respect, institutional charges. Let's see, it could be the General Secretariat of Equality, why isn't it present in this bill, as soon as it's collected in its own gender impact report. Why aren't some of the issues coming up? Actually, you were talking about how they want to improve the size of cooperatives, I wrote that exactly. Many of these cooperatives, mainly women's cooperatives, are quite small in size. But I want to remind you that even though the number of cooperatives increased from 2009 to 2014, on the other hand, with more cooperatives, there are fewer partners. It has decreased the number of partners, exactly, according to the data I have, which are likely to contrast, from 715 to 495. I mean, there was a decrease in the number of partners within cooperatives. In particular, cooperatives formed by women are cooperatives with a smaller, smaller number of partners. It is therefore surprising that there is no concrete action, or even work done, in relation to the Secretariat of Equality itself and in an area that is so important. In addition, you know perfectly well that there are programs from the General Secretariat of Equality to promote entrepreneurship and the creation of female companies, how does this not appear to be collected in this law? I'm sorry we cause this, but it's really transcendental, because if we don't implement the principles of gender equality in the laws, because if they're collected there in generic laws, they don't really take the legal body that is needed when we're discussing a particular law. That's why you know that in the amendments we will cause you to have clear the perspective of gender this kind of declaration of intentions that this law has been. So also, in particular, what measures are supposed to exist in this law to increase the size of cooperatives, since you referred to that. Another question which also surprises the law, and which has already been commented on, I think that for Mrs. Solla, is Article 17. I understand that Article 17 is the article that talks about funding mechanisms, because you also said that specific funding mechanisms exist in the law. Concrete, concrete: "In order to promote the development of new social economy initiatives, through the creation of new entities or through the expansion of existing activities, specific financial instruments will be promoted which will contribute to their launch and start of activities". Promoting specific financial instruments is not something concrete, it is absolutely abstract. I mean, we don't know what we're talking about, and besides, just saying that this will be promoted is a typical form of drafting into the laws of the Government, but of course, financial instruments will be promoted... what are the instruments and through which organisms will be encouraged? And secondly, "The access of small and medium-sized enterprises of social economy will be stimulated to microcredit or venture capital funds programmes that can be agreed specifically for the launch of new social economy initiatives." The aspect of venture capital funds has already been criticized here, which does not really seem to be the way of guiding the social economy, but without going into it, even with microcredit programs, through collaboration with private funding entities, through own funds creations within the Igape or within the board itself. In other words, innovative programmes in collaboration with financial institutions are not specific financial mechanisms, they are more than wishes collected in Article 17. And finally, the amendment to the Social Services Act. It is surprising that the Law on Social Services is amended in the Law on the Social Economy of Galicia. It's amazing, it'll be social, to take the word "social," because I don't see exactly the relationship. Even if you examine the report of the Galician Economic and Social Council, it clearly states that in the ESC's own view the reform of the social services regulation envisaged in the preliminary draft should be carried out after a timely debate with the entities themselves participating in the Galician Welfare Council. You have already referred to this consultation with the entities, as it particularly affects service-type providers and precisely a reform of social services regulations. We are – and we are moving to point 7, Mr Counsellor – speaking, according to the ESC, of groups affected by the provision of services, such as those addressed to primary care, persons with disabilities or vocational reintegration, the inclusion of people, including health care, in many cases when it comes to caring for dependence, attention to people. Therefore, the change in this law does not seem appropriate to us, because we understand that we cannot go from cover to change and steal a whole debate about the Social Services Act, and if we arrive with previous communication or it is necessary to authorize it. We know the salvation, that all this debate has taken place and that the Government of Greece has decided – without agreement with Parliament – to assume the Resolution of 3 November 2014 of the General Secretariat for Autonomic and Local Coordination, so that the agreement of the Bilateral Commission for General Administrative Cooperation of the State to the Autonomous Community of Galicia on Law 14/2013, on rationalization of the autonomous public sector of Galicia, is published. We do not accept this change, it seems to us wrong for social services, and we will also give that debate. But we are also curiously in line with what the ESC says. Clearly, he understands that this kind of service should be subject to prior authorization, because it's services that have to do with people, with their well-being, with their health, with their relationships between people, and that's why we don't accept that it is collected in the text of the law itself through a last disposition. On these issues, Counsellor, because we understand that it is a law that is really without content, because it is a law without budget allocation, because it is a law without measures, because it is a law that does not advance another model of economy, we are going to keep this amendment completely so that the text is returned to the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u69	Grace, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. The Socialist Group is presenting a whole amendment to the Law of the Social Economy, because really when you got here and did the exhibition went through the same thing as the companion of the Joint Group. Surely we haven't passed the law you told us here, we couldn't find it. But well, to do so some small reviews. You were talking about a specific plan of action 2015-2020, hopefully not the same as in 2010-2014, which went wrong in 4,000 million euros. Then I guess this will be more adjusted. You talk about entrepreneurship, and just look at the numbers of youth unemployment and migration for that attention that you say you're going to have now with entrepreneurship and youth. He also speaks of the importance of R & D+i, and I'm here, Mr. Losada always says it: Ukraine and Turkey, that's the same investment that the German Government makes. And with regard to Industry 4.0, because I'm really not going to say anything anymore, because sometimes it starts to look a little funny. Well, we understand that this law might be an opportunity at a time of crisis, but what we are in, we understand, is not going to be an opportunity, nor is it going to be anything but another law that is not going to be worth to solve the economic and employment problem that Galicia suffers. The social economy accounts for 10 % of GDP and almost 48,000 enterprises at the state level. So two and a half million jobs, as you said very well. But with what we have in hand, we don't understand how we can handle this sector, mainly because, despite the fact that you've been talking about funding here, it's a law that the law itself says has no financial support. Employment stability is another of the main characteristics of companies that are within the social economy, but cooperatives and labour societies believe that they are being strongly attacked by the crisis. Attacks, basically, because one of the most important problems you have is the lack of funding, the lack of investment, also from public administrations themselves, and the law itself is there, are a series of leaves without concrete measures that you speak of but are not budgeted. It is real, and this tells all international indicators, international agencies, that the world economy is slowing down. Mr Counsellor, if the world economy is slowing down, the IMF and the OECD and the European Commission are lowering the forecast, because from the Socialist Group we are very much afraid of our country, Galicia. This international scenario, with increasing risks, is logically reflected in the Spanish economy with clear backlog indicators, and logically also has an influence in Galicia. They tell the experts that we have a market for inertia. Spain faces these challenges in the worst of positions, since unemployment conditions for both Galicia and the Spanish state are the worst European conditions. If we consider Galicia to be under the State in all economic indicators, you come to present this law with those assumptions. I mean, a law that unfortunately won't apply to what you came to tell here. Since the beginning of the crisis, the loss of businesses and jobs has been brutal in Galicia. It's one of the autonomous communities where fewer jobs are created and where most of them are destroyed. There is also immigration, specifically youth emigration, and from this parliamentary group every time we intervene we speak of that crack that is the abandonment of young people, and that abandonment of young people who no longer appear in unemployment registers, qualified young people who are marching. That's a reality, as it's also a reality for social economy companies, the difficulty in accessing financial credit. It therefore limits its initiatives and trumps the initiatives that have already begun. We have to review, and that's the judgment of the socialists, that cooperatives and other social economic entities are not considered to be the object of attention by the Galician Union, because in seven years of People's Party Government we can make a reading, a summary and a balance of whether there was a focus – I don't say specific and differentiated, just attention – to companies in the social economy. The references that traditionally make the Galician Union, all counselors and the President of the Government to self-employment and entrepreneurship are nothing but empty words, because then there are no specific measures, specific budget to help. The Government of Galicia simply uses self-employment and self-employment to disengage itself from the reality it has caused, from the reality it has before its noses, which is a poor labour market. What results from all this is that the working conditions of workers are what all the indicators specifically say: precariousness and poverty. Poverty even for the workers. Because when we talk about poverty is already dramatic, but when we coin the word of poor employees, we would really have to review it in an important way and not present laws as if they were churros in a young man, laws that can be applied, laws that are budgeted and that are convenient for Greek society and companies. In times of crisis, entrepreneurial initiatives in the field of the social economy, to our judgment, must be oriented, on the one hand, to the creation of viable enterprises in emerging and quality employment generating sectors, among which are those designed to provide services to society, those of a cultural, energy, environmental and sustainable tourism, among others. And, on the other hand, the consolidation and impulse of traditional sectors. To also point out that new entrepreneurship groups must be key to strengthening business fabric and the social economy. Unfortunately, this bill gives neither solution nor exit to any of these approaches, which in our judgment are important. This project does not include specific measures, but, more importantly, it does not include funding; it says so by law itself. So, Counsellor, we are surprised that you come here to talk about amounts of millions of euros, if I don't know that, strategically from here, from there, when the law you present to the groups doesn't talk about funding, at any time, or specific measures; it uses a lot of infinitives, but nothing else. This project does not talk about encouraging entrepreneurship under the models of companies in the social economy, encouraging social innovation, but funded, improving competitiveness, but with specific assistance, promoting employability and employment integration, encouraging the development of the rural and agricultural world, through business formulas of the social economy, because what we have as reality at this time in Galicia is the desertification of the rural world. I don't think you see it or don't want to see it. I mean, I, who belong to a province of the interior, demography is a terrible farm, so you come here to talk about young entrepreneurs in rural areas. Look, in the countryside, there's no longer any middle-aged ones left, young people haven't been here for a long time, they haven't been here for a long time. It is essential for us to facilitate access to funding to social economy entities, which is something that is not reflected in the law under any of the concepts. The German Government, therefore, does not take effective measures to put in value the Italian productive tissue, to preserve the Italian productive tissue; I no longer say to enlarge it, I no longer say to – as you said – associate it, no, is that the Greek productive tissue is being destroyed. As an example, Mr Counsellor, to point out – you speak of cooperatives – that more than 200 agricultural cooperatives in Galicia – therefore object of the Law of the Social Economy – represent in terms of invoicing and generating employment; is the almost unique form of marketing agricultural products indispensable for this productive sector. Well, the Government presents this law to enhance cooperativeism, but the budgets of the Galician Union, the last budgets of the Galician Union, don't say this. Budgets at the end are the real government program. So, what do the budgets say? For the Programme 712C, promoting agricultural associationism and dissemination, etc., decreases, decreases by more than a million euros. So that's the way to value cooperativeism, and we're talking about established cooperativeism, working productive tissue, which would be part of that Law of the social economy, but budget itself despises it, and now you come here saying that we're going to do wonders with cooperatives, man!, at least we're going to preserve what we have, and we're not reducing their budget. We understand, therefore, that this is a law that in no way lays the fundamental foundations for the value of the Greek social economy, the companies of the social economy. Counsellor, unfortunately, it's only advertising and propaganda, and what remains to be known is what this advertising and propaganda is worth, because I really don't see the object, because people who are part of cooperatives, people who are working in social services, etc., etc., you can tell them that you have a Social Economy Law that envelops them and will help them, but when their wages are precarious, when they're out of work because they're out of work, when budgets are reduced to cooperatives, so reasonably, Counsellor, we don't understand what the reality is. In addition, the law is presented in a political and economic setting for Galicia which is highly adverse in terms of employment. We have to remember that unemployment registered in Galicia increases to 228,808 people in December, but in January there are 7,639 more people. Galicia, therefore, with this data, is the third autonomous community where unemployment has grown the most, this is a reality. The total number of contracts entered into rose from 68,646 in December to 62,688 in January, but 91,12% of these contracts are temporary: job insecurity, worker poverty, wage poverty. The membership of Social Security since Alberto Núñez Feijóo is president of the Union and the People's Party rules in Galicia is 96,489 people less. That's the reality of this law. I don't know if that amendment to the whole, that reform of the Government that Mr. Feijóo has done obliges advisers who have new responsibilities for each one to have a percentage of laws that they have to present, but it would be important that in such a sad situation what we have done, we have done it, at least with the manifest intention, with the budget necessary to correct this scourge which is unemployment in this autonomous community; this tear that is the abandonment of the most qualified young people in this autonomous community; that tear that the provinces and the countryside are deserting; and that really the province of the interior, as my own, as Ourense, as much as we last week have the advisers living there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u71	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u72	...it can't always be effective for cooperatives, to generate jobs, finally, for what is the object of the social economy law. I would not like to finish – if I may, Mr President – without saying that February 22 was the European Day for Pay Equality. Unfortunately, Counsellor, you still do not specifically address this aspect. You continue to disregard the genre at any time, neither in your Government nor in your laws, nor in your intention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u74	Look, women still have to work seventy-nine days more a year to have the same salary as a man. Of course, if to solve Galicia's work landscape is this law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u75	Finish. End, please, Mrs. Quintas; end now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u76	Mr. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, there will be no solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u77	Thank you very much, Mrs. Quintas. Non-amendant group. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cancelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor, gentlemen. Today we are debating the whole of an important bill for economic development and employment promotion in our community, the Galician Social Economy Act. This project was subject to pre-emptive reports from agencies, entities, from which several suggestions were received, many of them incorporated into the text. Surprisingly, when you came to this Parliament, four amendments were introduced to your whole, most referring to the articulate rather than to your own law, and even some wording in such a way that it seems to suggest that the amenders do not know very well what you are referring to as the concept of social economy, which has not prevented them from requesting the return of it. In particular, I refer to the amendment tabled by the Joint Group, which shows its incomprehensibility to the non-inclusion in the Catalogue of entities, in the field of the social economy in Galicia, of representation by feminist organizations or NGOs, so I will start by reminding this House what is understood by social economy. Although there are many definitions about the social economy, already present in economic literature since the 19th century, by the way, from the ideas of certain Catholic circles that wanted to seek an alternative solution to which the economy was based on capital. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] But I'm going to pick the proposal in 2008 by my colleagues from the University of Valencia members of CIRIEC, Rafa Chaves and José Luis Monzón, because it's the definition that's used to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u79	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u80	...the European Economic and Social Committee. So, what does the social economy say? Which is the set of companies formally organized with the autonomy of decision and freedom of accession created to meet the needs of their partners through the market, producing goods and services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u81	Quiet. Quiet. Excuse me, Madam, we seem to have a problem with the microphone there. See if they can fix the microphone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u82	...–forgivement– by securing and financing, and in which the possible distribution of profits or surplus partners, as well as decision-making, are not directly linked to the capital, but it corresponds to each partner a distribution based on their participation in work, and therefore also a vote in decisions. So the social economy embraces a set of organizations with characteristic principles that differ from traditional companies and with common features that Professor Vara summarizes and I'm going to select a couple of them. They carry out economic activity and use business formulas mostly, manage as an association of people, and keep people's rights against property rights in a priority place, and incorporate social orientation into their objectives. We're talking about economic activity, but we're also talking about social orientation, that's the combination that defines them as social economy entities. Therefore, NGOs and feminist associations do not belong to this area. By continuing with the amendments, to point out that the AGE Group presented seems more like a political pamphlet, and confuses the true concept and scope of the social economy as well. Although the social economy includes two types of companies that have social inclusion as their fundamental goal – speaking from special employment centres or employment-enterprises – the scope of the sector is much greater, since by its definition it places people above capital, they have a democratic functioning, they apply benefits to services, they operate autonomously from public authorities, they provide stable and quality employment for workers, they ensure linkage and stay in the territory and have proven to be more resistant to the crisis than companies based on the ownership of capital. That's why it's not understood that the AGE Group is against whether it wants to secure its present and future, or that it is against whether these companies improve its competitiveness, on the other hand, basic for its permanence, when they're always here talking about being the big advocates of the productive sectors of Galicia. Of course, we are committed to strengthening, consolidating and guaranteeing the autonomy of companies in the social economy. Only in this way will they have the ability to play the important role they are called upon, achieving a more equitable distribution of wealth, establishing population in the territory and achieving greater social cohesion. And that's because through this law the need and commitment of the Greek public authorities to contribute to improving the management of these entities, the training and professional performance of people linked to them, to stimulate innovation, to facilitate their participation in public employment policies, to facilitate and simplify their relationship with the administration and to facilitate their access to public procurement. All this unless it promotes and disseminates its values, dynamizes entrepreneurship through these formulas or introduces these values in the field of teaching. The amendment also questions the model used for the Social Economy Council, when participation in the development of employment policies is one of the objectives expressed and announced in this standard. But in addition, this council is set up as a body for collaboration, coordination and dialogue in the field of the social economy of Galicia, with the capacity to participate in the planning of social economy promotion and dissemination programmes, to focus on the rules that affect them and to advise on the integration of social economy policies with employment, local or rural development. Furthermore, the representativeness of the social economy in the Council is very broad, much larger than that of the Administration, the only body in which it is recognised and gives voice to all the diversity of social economy activities and increases the possibility of non-institutional collaboration among the different entities in Galicia. Finally, this law does not intend to establish a new framework, nor to regulate the functioning of each of the categories of entities, there are already mechanisms to ensure all this. Let us remember that the purpose of the law is to establish a common regulation applicable to the whole of the entities that integrate the social economy of Galicia, with full respect to the specific regulations that apply to each class of entities. We cannot also share the assessment that the Galego Nationalist Block makes of the bill, as it meets the objectives that mark European institutions, the most advanced countries and the leading researchers of the social economy, which is the differentiated treatment that this sector deserves, which is collected in the law, contributing to the visibility and knowledge of it, providing it with a common legal framework and which saves the peculiarities of the regulation of each of the categories of companies that compose it. In addition, it lays down the foundations and principles on which future activity must be supported, both from the point of view of financing, training, innovation, employment and others. It is clear that the measures to promote the social economy advocated by this law are not exhausted from it, nor is this the pretension; its aim is to give visibility, relevance and regulatory coherence to a dispersed sector, with social and economic specific activity and weight, very different but very important. The adoption of this law does not replace, but rather, what it does is to move forward in the implementation of concrete measures to promote or to develop strategies that define the horizon of public policies in this area. On the creation of the Council, I did not contradict the statement of austerity of the Galician Council, since there will be no new administrative structure, it is about giving the sector the possibility of being part of the legislative measures or of the public management that may affect them, and that with legal value. On the other hand, we can't share the view that with this law it's about putting the ball on other roofs, it's not about circumventing commitments, but quite the contrary. A law would not be promoted that lays the foundations for public action for the promotion of the social economy if the Galician Union had not been fully involved in this task. Precisely their social value, their economic weight, the values and principles on which the social economy is based, they make this sector deserving that not only the Union, but also other entities, are involved in their promotion, as they have been manifest through initiatives such as the Eusumo network. If we analyze the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party of Galicia, a new surprise, because they should read a text that is not what we are debating today. They thus state that there is no union or business representation in the Social Economy Council when it is clearly collected in Article 11.1(f) and (g). The same is true of the transposition of the European Union Public Procurement Directive, since Article 14(2)(k) includes the social clause which, taking into account the characteristics and values of the social economy, favours their participation in the Greek public procurement. With regard to the absence of funds, I am already referring first to the fact that the law will have its subsequent development, which must be dynamic and non-static, through the concrete measures that will be undertaken in the corresponding budgets, in addition to the already committed, which can be redefined and redirected according to the needs that exist at every moment. I'm not going to stop at the Social Economic Council's faculties anymore, than I've already commented on its important role in defining policies and giving voice to the sector before the Greek administration. But this law has many more important and new aspects, which will surely benefit the whole set of entities and will therefore help to improve the productive fabric of our economy. For example, the start-up of the catalogue, which will allow real visibility of the economic activity carried out by these entities, the financing that is collected and points to the need for specific instruments. We're talking about microcredit, yes, of course, for small projects, but also about venture capital funds for larger projects, and they're not in contradiction with the social economy. No, not at all! Youth is also reflected in the law, creating the figure of young cooperatives, with lower requirements, both economical, minimum social capital to constitute –300 euros instead of 3,000 – as well as the processing of the cooperative itself, as the procedures and the costs of constitution are reduced. With regard to the collection in the last third provision, I shall begin by pointing out that autonomous legislation on the authorisation of social services is being adapted to basic Community and State legislation, which designates a system which eliminates unnecessary regulations, establishes more agile procedures and minimizes administrative burdens. But the above is done by collecting the specifics of the social services, especially the protection of the rights of the persons receiving them, and the guarantee of quality social services, which require setting up a system itself described in this law, with regard to what would be the subject of authorization. The explanatory statement of the Social Economy Act, which is being dealt with, clearly justifies the need to amend the Social Services Act. In conclusion, the requirement of the authorisation regime, subject to the principles of necessity and proportionality, is sufficiently motivated legally, and specifying its competition, being confined to the applicable legislation, and it is established that these reasons cannot be safeguarded by the submission of a responsible declaration or prior communication, so the resulting regime maintains the authorization as a necessary guarantee for the provision of certain social services. On the claim made by the Socialist Party of Galicia, it points out that the text was sent by e-mail on October 2, 2015, to members of the plenary of the Galician Social Welfare Council, which analyzed it at its meeting on November 4, and in that full report was informed of the implications of the project's handling of social services, without any of the members of the full-time chairman expressing any obsession following the processing. But why is this law important? Because to support the Galician social economy sector is to come up with solutions to increase job creation in our community, it is a stimulus for the dynamisation of self-employment and entrepreneurship rooted in the territory, and it has people as its protagonists precisely. Because the role of the Administration is not to create jobs beyond what is necessary for its own functioning, but to set the conditions for the economy to grow, support and legislate the conditions so that companies can grow and create jobs. To elaborate this law, the most dynamic sectors of the social economy in Galicia were consulted, in particular the associations that are represented in the Galician Council of Cooperatives, agreeing with them a lot of the contents of the law, and some of its suggestions were also incorporated. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from my presentation, the Group of the People's Party will vote against amendments tabled to the whole of the law, so that it will continue with parliamentary proceedings, because we believe this is an important, useful and relevant law. To conclude, in the context where we find spaces of understanding, lines of consensus and points of meeting, I do not doubt that at the end of the process this Parliament will unanimously pass this law, pioneer in the autonomous Spanish communities, as happened at the Congress of Members of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u83	Thank you. Replica round of the amending groups. First of all, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u84	Mrs. Cancel, after listening to you I don't know whether to cry or laugh, because there's a really undisturbed one left. They're leading me to the 19th century definition, as if it hadn't changed the world! For you, women are still women of the 19th century? But what are you counting on here? You just don't find out, and it's worse, you don't respect yourself as a woman, and that's the worst thing that can happen to a woman, okay? [[Protests.]] Because it has to be acknowledged that women suffer great discrimination in this country, at all levels, and therefore the People's Party itself has said that equality policies have to be transversal and be in all laws. And he says it to the General Secretariat of Equality itself. But for you, it's up to the feminists and it's up to them to represent women in a law like the social economy. Bravo, Mrs. Cancelo, you just put on a medal that won't work with her. But look, besides, it's all a fallacy, because a law without budgets is nothing but a fallacy, it's propaganda, it's not worth anything, for nothing! It doesn't rule anything, it doesn't establish that support, it doesn't establish anything, Counselor. I'm sorry, but it's nothing, it's empty, it only regulates that entities are part of the social economy, and there are no entities, and the Social Council. It's the only one that regulates, the only one, and the rest is useless. Obviously, I also agree that all social services need the relevant authorization of the competent board, you cannot remain in a statement of responsibility with the previous communication. But it's also the crowd that's talking to us, because everything here is confused, and I think they should ask someone to give them a class of what the social economy is, what self-employment is, what it's a company, what they don't seem to want to know about what's happening or the difference. For you it's all self-employment, and it's all about the same rules. Then they say that this law serves Galicia's economic and social development. Well, that's why you're going to have to develop it, because this coming here is no use at all, nothing at all, nothing at all! It's no use to social organizations, social economy entities, cooperatives, who already have the Eusumo Network, which is where they are sent, and nothing else, is what this law is all about. But besides, you should know, Mrs. Cancel, that there are already definitions of social economy throughout Europe, which are very far from the 19th century, it is done. It's just that time is passing and things are changing. And within these definitions are the organizations of producers, consumers, farmers, workers, based on democratic practices, autonomy in management, primacy of solidarity and people about capital and profits. That's it, and there's everyone. And what seems tremendous to me is that you intend to reduce this, and the People's Party – you in this case as a spokesperson for the People's Party, which is about defending this tough text – the only thing you intend to do is to give a folder to a problem, sell smoke. It has a social reality that is calling – and we have talked about it in this Parliament many times – to which the Government is strongly committed by cooperatives, by cooperative work. And on the contrary, we look at how within the rural area, which would be of these most important areas, where a great cooperative work can be done, is not done; we see as the opposite, by the Aquaculture Law, which now seems to be carried out, is withdrawn already, definitely, but, of course, here what we were calling it was that the seamstresses were autonomous, not creating cooperatives. You don't believe in cooperative work, you don't believe in the social economy, you just believe in the speculative economy, and for the benefit of big companies and corporations. That's why I keep my amendment to the whole, and I hope that if you really have that democratic sense of equality and social benefit that you should have this law, you withdraw this bill, and in any case you present another one that really looks at what the social economy is, you see how this law is going to be budgeted and you look at the ways of development, betting and growing the social economy, as well as that it recognizes in the law all the benefits and all the contributions that social economy entities make to our country. Stop propaganda and put a law on the table that can be discussed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u86	Thank you, President. We are going to support the rest of the amendments of the other opposition groups, because we understand that they are being referred in the same direction, there have been a series of general criticisms to the legal text itself, which unfortunately do not seem to make the People's Party reflect. It's a practically useless law, which regulates only one catalogue and one council, it's a law based on totally distant liberal principles – I repeat – of the social economy and the concept of social economy in the transformation of society, and could therefore end up here, leaving and ending. The truth is that it is amazing that as the amendment of the Alternative Left Gaula a pamphlet does not even have the capacity of the honourable Member of the People's Party to understand it, to be a pamphlet and a short one, I am quite surprised that she did not understand the meaning of the amendment. She didn't even refer to her in the intervention; I repeat that I don't know if she understood it or not. The reality is that we have a level of employment in our country that has returned to the levels of the year 2001; the fact is that it is paradoxical that the advisor himself will first transfer the relationship that industrial employment, when 13.4% was destroyed; the reality is that the Galician Union has cut 51% of employment budgets since 2009, i.e., for job integration, etc., etc. We have discussed it on other occasions in the committees. The reality is that social spending has been cut by EUR 641 million, so public employment has been cut off and many public employment markets have also been removed, in addition to the application of these replacement rates. The reality is that Galicia's rate of activity is the second worst rate of activity in the state as a whole, and therefore what they cannot claim is that by self-employment it solves, precisely, all the employment that the People's Party has been destroying in recent years. Social economy is not a tool to solve your problems. That is more, if you want to make specific reference to Catholic entities, I agree and would ask you to study the data and complaints that Caritas has made about the employment situation and the situation... please, I would ask the Presidency to ask for a little bit of respect to the honourable Member who is making a gesture that this Member is speaking is crazy. [[Murmurs.]] I would ask a little respect... yes, yes, I would ask a little respect because I didn't make any gesture in that sense and I respected the intervention, even though we were told that the amendment of this parliamentary group was a pamphlet. So what we have on the table is some data from Caritas that tell us about the poverty among the working class, that having a job today is not certain of ensuring a dignified life and that the structural causes of poverty are not being tackled in our country. And, therefore, if the People's Party wants to talk about the recommendations of the Catholic entities, which it speaks of. And referring again to the legal text presented, of course, we understand that the return of this text is essential for doing something merely useful, because – I repeat, there is no concrete action in the law to encourage the social economy, to promote cooperativeism. There's nothing concrete beyond the catalogue and beyond what it has to do with that advice that's really not going to ensure anything at all. It's not safe to encourage anything in this direction. Risk capital funds are not a valid financing model for the social economy; the liberal economy is the antithesis of the social economy. I move here again that the social economy cannot be rejected, which should be a method of social transformation, by the economic liberal principles. It's absolutely absurd, i.e., it doesn't fit anyone's head. And I repeat again: that the term so important to us here - said the rest of the voices too - is equality, that equality is not present anywhere in equality between women and men in this law, that the vision of gender in the law is not present and that there is no transversality that is so much concealed, because the truth is quite worrying. And I say again, that the whole of the union entities represented is not a tool, because there are also problems for the workers and the workers of the social institutions. The truth is it's rather regrettable to be debating this and that the counselor is looking for the phone, frankly. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, I'm done, we understand... this law... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u87	Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u88	...they have to return, that there is no... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u89	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u90	...possibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u92	...to walk in the social environment with this legal text. And, of course, this attitude that the People's Group is manifesting is not the right thing to have a serious and serene debate about what the social economy has to be in our country. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u94	Thank you, President. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we will also support the amendments of the other groups because we believe that they are fundamentally consistent: the lack of content, concrete measures, financing instruments and the over-dimension of the Social Economy Council which does not provide solutions. In addition, we understand that Mrs Cancelo has not dismantled the arguments we have made in our own amendments to the whole and in the exhibition we are trying to make here from this rostrum to explain our position. I understand that in this debate, in which we are talking about social economy, at least it may seem strange or surprising to the counselor himself or to the Counsellor himself that we have so flimsy on the part of the spokespersons to talk about the subject of gender transversality. But, look, Counsellor, if there are any laws we have discussed during this legislation on economic, employment, industry and employment matters, in which there should really be a bet on gender transversality, because it is the one that collects the fundamental aspects of women's self-employment. Women from 40 to 45 years old, if they are fired from their jobs – and so they report –, what they are looking for is self-employment, whether what is called entrepreneurship – which is: looking for life as you can – or through other lines, such as cooperativeism. So it surprises me that there is no reference, that there are no concrete measures, that there are not even the small assessments made by the gender report itself. Because, in addition, what is called into question – and I am not going to debate here about concepts of economy or anything by style –... but it is true that there are alternative economies – such as the economy of care – very related to the social economy where one seeks another relationship with people and another relation to the formation of benefits. And it doesn't show up either. And it was a good time, even though I was in the explanatory statement, to introduce new categories, the relationship between the economy and people and the relation of the care economy. It is clear that there are a number of free jobs that have traditionally done women who have moved into the field already having a monetary exchange in this regard. An important part of these works appears collected through the entities that regulate here, and there is no prospect of gender. So much of our interventions already have references, because it was exactly the law that could better collect that gender transversality. It's a shame. We hope that we will be who, in the time we have to establish the partial amendments, to incorporate that. Because, in addition, it's a law that should also speak in terms of poverty, redistribution... data has already been given here, unemployment data. Today, for example, we could see a headline: "Galiza only counts with a worker for each pensioner or unemployed person." I mean, we're in a really worrying economic situation, and it doesn't appear to be collected in this law either. It's a missed opportunity to regulate the social economy differently, but also to give a debate about what economic model of social economy and the economy of care we want. That's why we keep keeping this amendment to a complete extent. We hope that in this presentation process we have the capacity to introduce concrete measures, financing models and gender perspective. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I want to start as I finished. I think if this law is to solve the work landscape of the Greek, the work landscape of the Greek will get worse. And, honourable Member of the Group of the People's Party, if you think that searching for Joaquín Díaz de Rábago on the Internet is much more consistent, because there you are. If you understand that the social economy must fall back and go back, 1837, 180 years ago, because it clearly tells us what it intends to do. [[Applause]] I am sorry to address the honourable Member because I understand that the Members have come to talk about the law and not to answer them to the political groups, who understand that it must be the role of the adviser, but if the adviser needs help, then welcome us. This law of the social economy presented is far from a specific standard. And also, Madam – which I have forgotten – you have this mania to understand that they are above the good and the evil, to understand that they are the only ones that read... Madam, if you think that a representative of the trade union organizations are represented the workers and the labour interests... – I will wait for you to speak of the men and women of Greece, because, of course, 180 years ago. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, let's get a little better, there's a union representative. Because, look, there's a representative of business organizations, but, of course, six people from cooperatives, one person from working societies, one from special employment centres -- that is, we understand that the company is represented. But if you understand that Galician workers from social economic, cooperative, etc. companies are represented by a person, because I understand that the one who has no comprehensive reading is you. On the other hand, we were talking about the entities of the Galego Council of Welfare, which I think should read this paper that sends a lady who is named Porro – and that I think it is not the Socialist Party – and already explains that it is not enough. Well, Mr. Counsellor, the bill, from the socialist perspective, has a lot of eves. The Socialists propose that there be a transposition of the European Union directive on public procurement; this is something to be proposed in the new government programme. To establish a favourable tax treatment for companies in the social economy, a reform of the Law on Cooperatives – Mr Counsellor, which you spoke about cooperatives, but you know that the reform of the law is State competence –, the regulation of the collaborative economy of the social economy, among others, are the aspects that we would like to see with the socialists who considered themselves within the law. Many of the proposals that are made in this project, not even – as your partner told you, Madam – count on the sectoral reports of the relevant advisors, even though you said in your introduction that they spoke to all the advisors, but we understand that they do not have all the relevant reports. It does not include any new effective financing measures for companies, even though you have spoken here of a certain budget and an economic amount, but it does not appear in the law, since the process of restructuring and sanitizing credit institutions has resulted in these companies not having access to credit and financing either. It abounds in a number of statements the lack of real content and entrepreneurship and does not need – and I repeat – concrete measures. A lack of matching between the general character of the title and the purpose of the law was appreciated. In substance this text is the only regulation of the Social Economy Council, only to state programmatic aspects. With regard to the powers of action of the Social Economy Council, they are too limited, both in the legislative proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u98	...as for reporting. We believe that the reforms of social services regulations envisaged in the preliminary draft should have been carried out after the appropriate debate with the entities participating in the Galego Council of Welfare. And we believe that he should have talked to the groups affected in the provision of services, to the care of children, to the elderly and to persons with disabilities, and to the struggle against unemployment and to the social housing, among others. That is why the Socialist Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u100	Mr. Counsellor, you present an amendment to the whole and you will support the amendments of the rest of the groups. As I say, unfortunately, it's a law that won't solve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u102	...the problem...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u104	...laboring in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u106	We turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We begin by voting on the draft law on public emergency projects or of exceptional interest. We start with the amendments' votes in full. Voting the amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, which is an amendment for return. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Jointly, the draft law on measures in the field of public emergency projects or of exceptional interest. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 8; against, 59; abstentions, 7. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, to the draft law on measures in the field of public emergency projects or of exceptional interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 59. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected with alternative text. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, to the draft law on emergency public projects or of exceptional interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 41; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected with alternative text. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the draft law of measures in the field of public emergency projects or of exceptional interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 47; abstentions, 8. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected with alternative text. Voting the amendment to the whole, with alternative text, of the G.P. Galician people, the draft law on emergency public projects or of exceptional interest. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; votes against, 8; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This amendment is therefore approved as an alternative text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u107	This amendment is approved with an alternative text and, consequently, the draft law on measures relating to public emergency or exceptional projects of interest is adopted. The amendments to the Galician Social Economy Bill are put to the vote. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed, the Galician Social Economy Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Alternative Galician Left, to the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, to the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, to the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u108	As a result, amendments are rejected, the project follows its parliamentary procedure. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u109	Before I suspend the session until late in the afternoon, I read a statement that brings me all the groups in relation to the problem of Tragsa and Tragsatec: "Last January 21, the public company Tragsa and its subsidiary Tragsatec ended the application of the ERE which was applying, so that this file affected 555 people throughout Spain, of the 1,336 layoffs originally planned. In Galicia, redundancies affected 77 workers, representing 32% of the staff, established in 238 employees, an alarmingly high figure. Understanding that the ERE cannot thus affect our community, and understanding that the causes that justified it are no longer in force, the Galician Parliament urges the re-integration of the workers of the company into our community affected by the ERE. In this sense, the Greek Parliament shows its support to Tragsa and Tragsatec workers in Galicia and urges the Galician Union to address the Government of Spain and the company's leadership to request the readmission of the 77 workers and workers fired in Galicia, and to which the company urges the undertaking to start as soon as possible the necessary negotiations with the legal representatives of the staff framework to put an end to the created labour conflict, whenever the economic, productive and organisational causes that on its day justified the collective dismissal procedure have been changed. Santiago de Compostela, February 23, 2016."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u110	Nothing else. Thank you very much. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u111	We continue the agenda, at the fourth point, with the presence of Mr. Social Policy Counsellor. Like Mr Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the general lines of family policy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u112	The Social Policy Adviser has the floor. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come on my own request in this Parliament to explain the lines that this council is developing for the benefit of the Greek families. For the first time since 2008 Galicia has an expanding budget, a larger budget margin, which is largely directed at giving a new social impulse to have better social services and reaching a greater number of families, to a greater number of Greeks and Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u114	Excuse me a moment, Counselor. Looks like we have sound problems again. Let's see if they're all set up. Well, they've been testing here right now and it worked perfectly. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They've changed their devices, changed their president, but they've also changed their devices.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u115	He said that our commitment to people reflects an increase of 12.5% of shares allocated for social investment over the 2015 budget. Thus, the budget of the new Social Policy Council, as you well know, amounts to EUR 618.5 million. This budgetary reinforcement means more resources to continue to support families and those who need it most, to put in place new programs and measures to fight against inequality and social exclusion and also to care for our older people and people with diversity. We have the ambition that Galicia is among the places with the greatest public, social and health care for children, and to make this country a better place to have children, but above all, the best place possible to be a child or a child. Galicia has an aging population today. To successfully manage the impacts of demographic change and achieve reverse this trend are needed... [[Pause.]] He said that in order to successfully manage the impacts of demographic change and to reverse that dynamic, we need transversal action and raise awareness among European and state governments of the challenges we face. No measure is the solution, and the challenge is not solved in a year, but we have to put everyone on our side. The demographic situation in Galicia is the result of a number of different factors: biological, social, cultural and economic. To reverse the demographic situation is a real goal of the country, and in order to achieve it, it is necessary to develop actions that do not solely fall within the competence of this autonomic department. For example, the tax rebates announced by Fairy will be used, which will directly affect the homes with the reduction of the IRPF or the elimination of inheritance tax for most families. Of course it's not our mission, as public representatives, to tell people when they should have children or why. It's not about any Christmas politics, it's about that, like administrations, we have to be sensitive, close and give more ease to parents and mothers who want to do it. All of us in this House are aware of the need for demographic revitalization that Galicia has, but no woman or man, of course, will make decisions for the conviction that the representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks have. What we need to do and work is to ensure that all those people who decide to step in and have children can be sure that they will have a country next to them to support them in that challenge. We are aware of the importance of demographic revitalization in our land. The most recent studies on the evolution of the main demographic indicators and the forecasts of a continuing population decline place Galicia in the face of a structural problem of major consequences. Acquiring demographic revitalization and generational replacement becomes an urgent and indispensable goal for economic sustainability but also for Galician social sustainability. This is what is collected in the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, which has just presented the Autonomic Executive; a document that sets the planning in the medium term and that comes out of the joint work of the Government of Galicia and the proximity of citizenship. The priority of this plan is to consolidate economic recovery in the second half of the decade, reaching a more egalitarian Galicia and with more opportunities, with more employment, with more productivity, with greater territorial and social cohesion and thus with strengthened well-being. And to achieve these goals, demographic recovery represents an axis of action in this plan. In this line, the plan calls for the implementation of an integral package of measures for the demographic revitalization of Galicia with the aim of bringing the autonomous community closer – of course progressively – to the average of children in the European Union, in 1,59. In addition, the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan will allow 8 points to be converged with the EU average per capita GDP, up to 88 %. Demographic recovery is therefore a challenge for the present and the future. It's not an exclusive issue of our community, it doesn't understand political parties or governments. That is why reaching consensus on this issue is crucial for it to be part of the agenda of all governments in the future. For years Europe has been experiencing a demographic transformation because of a number of factors that have been changing standards of life: the increase in life expectancy, the backwardness of the first maternity age, the increase in the number of dependent seniors, the decrease in extended families, the increase in nuclear families and therefore family support, and the increase in families without stable income. Galicia, like Castela-A Mancha, Castela-León, Estremadura, Asturias, Aragon, Cantabria and La Rioxa, is a region especially affected by this phenomenon. There are already a number of forecasts that point to the fact that in a decade Galicia could lose 147,000 inhabitants, according to IGE data, more than 5.3 percent of the current population. In 2051 the loss of population could leave Galicia, following the data we currently have in 1.7 million inhabitants, which is 37% less than the current population. In this scenario, the Galician Union is considering a priority to address the demographic decline throughout its context, and to address it with an integral logic that not only covers all areas of action of the Union, but also addresses the European Union and the Spanish State, as they develop their competences in Galicia, to mobilize actions and resources that complement those of the Autonomous Community. In view of this reality, we are aware of all autonomous communities affected by negative demographic scales, and convinced that in order to reverse demographic dynamics there is a need for cross-cutting action in all sectors, in six autonomous communities representing 60% of Spain's territory, but only 23% of the population, including Galicia, was launched the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges. So far, three meetings have been held – the last of them last Monday in Valladolid – in which some issues and new measures have been agreed upon that I would like to share with this House. First, to move Europe, through a meeting with Commissioner László, the presence in the Committee of the Regions of the problem in which we find ourselves and request that the Central Government include a cross-sectional objective called "demographic change" in the Association Agreement of Spain 2014-2020 referred to the European Commission. The aim is to ensure that Europe is aware of the need to take into account in policy design the specificities arising from demographic change. European cohesion policy must be much more structured to meet these demographic challenges. Our role must be to raise awareness of the population and take steps in the right direction to build a better Galicia and a newer Galicia. Even so – and let us tell the European Union – this problem should be considered in setting up multiannual funding frameworks and including in its budget headings aimed at enabling the development of policies and actions for this purpose, while establishing priority mechanisms for access to finance for those regions with special difficulties and where the consequences of demographic change have a particular impact. That's why Galicia has been present at that forum and will lead this forum since June. Because Galicia is a region that contemplates the recovery of demography as a challenge for the present but above all as a challenge for the future. At this point, I'd like to make them part of their approach, in order to incorporate them into the roadmap with which Galicia will lead this summer this demographic forum, because our future and the generations that are about to arrive are at stake. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is just part of the work we've done in recent years. On the basis of these conclusions that led us to participate in the Forum of Spanish Regions with Demographic Challenges, the Board developed the Plan for Demographic dynamization, Horizon 2020, with several areas: the area of awareness for demographic dynamization, the area of socio-economic impulse to motherhood and paternity, the area of family support and the area of interdepartmental coordination and transversality. From the measures envisaged in the area of awareness-raising we would highlight the International Day of Awareness, the International Congress of Demography and the Technical Days of Reconciliation, Demography and Enterprise, in each of the four provinces. From socio-economic impulse measures to maternity and paternity we would highlight the increase in tax deduction by birth or adoption of children to contributors with income equal to or less than 22,000 euros –360 euros by the first child, 1,200 per second and 2,400 per third. At the same time, the provision of the single payment for children under 3 years of age has been strengthened for persons who do not have the obligation to submit the income statement; the exemption from payment in children's schools for the second child or daughter who attends the same centre of those families with per capita income of EUR 7,500 per year; and, in support of families, the increase in the supply of child-school squares, creating 3,900 new squares. The ratio, as you well know, of child-care schools obtained from public funds has improved by 12 points since the 2009-2010 course, currently above the recommended European Union ratio, which, as you know, is also in 33%, the start of the process of transformation of persons who can manage children's homes as a method of reconciling the supply of children's schools in rural areas, the approval of the portfolio of social services for families, children and adolescents, which will allow the expansion and diversification of services for children, families, and the maximum performance of public infrastructures in Galicia, the incorporation of flexible working hours and teleworking in the area of employees of the Galician public service – at this time 7100 public workers, of which 762 have granted flexibility by conciliation – and the implementation of social application for families in the metropolitan transport of Galicia, with discounts of 20 % for families of the general and 50 % for those of the special category. And in the area of inter-administrative coordination, it is important to highlight the networked work of the Forum of Regions with demographic challenges, as well as participation in the working group on demographic change and ageing, created within the framework of the Resoe with representatives of the northern region and the central region of Portugal, as well as the autonomous communities of Castela and León and the Principality of Asturias of Spain. Precisely today Galicia – even today – once again has a voice in this forum at the meeting being held in Asturias, and I am pleased to inform you that in July it will be our community to lead a new working meeting of this forum. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The area of family, children and reconciliation rises to respond to many of these measures that we are implementing this year, 40 %, up to EUR 97.2 million. Between 2009 and 2016 budget support for the family area has doubled. We led this budgetary reinforcement to offer families new services and assistance focused on their sons and daughters complementing those that are already in operation today. So, at the end of last year, we created the birth aid program. Within this program, three fundamental legs: bread help; card, welcome – I know you like it especially –. On the line of the most advanced countries in Europe – Finland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden – direct grants of EUR 100 per month for the first year for each child born on January 1st. I need to be able to tell you that by today we already have more than 1,000 applications, and the first cards are already coming to the homes of the families. I would like to thank the officials of the Social Policy Council for being able, in a short time, to materialize this announcement that was made in the Welsh House at the end of last year. [[Applause]] The Conciliation Plan promotes the development of measures to facilitate access and permanence in the labour market by making available resources to enable them to reconcile their professional performance with the work of home care and the care of children and children. It's not just direct aid or support in income statements, conciliation has to play a key role in policies to support birth. So, let's expand the Conciliation Bond and create the Conciliation Bond. Of the little houses I was talking about earlier, I'd also like to say that the order that will regulate this new service that will be available to the Greeks this year will come out in the second quarter of the year. The third leg of the plan, the Plan of Services. It's about providing basic services for the Galician families in order to create favorable environments and improve their well-being from the moment the baby arrived. I would like to highlight the creation of two breast milk banks, the holding of online forums with experienced people, the setting up of the digital home, the empowerment of the health portal of access to the child vaccination calendar, the drive of the Web Care-care, the schools of parents and parents... In figures, these new measures, which form part of the family support program, will receive an economic contribution of 15.4 million euros this year. This means that our country, of course, will have to make a lot of progress, but that we are taking very serious steps in the future to take very seriously support for the family and support for children. The Greek mothers and parents don't have to pay infantile schools from the second child, and many others don't have to pay anything if their economic conditions don't allow them. They have, as I said before, more than 20,000 public-funded squares and have priority in asking for help from the renter or the purchase of a housing. But, of course, I spoke before working flexibility, which is another very important objective. In this next course, I would also like to announce that we will open 471 new squares of children's schools. Our goal is not to conform to overcoming the European ratio, but to open up the small schools of Marin, Fene, Oza-Cesuras, Torino, Ames-Bertamirans, La Coruña and Arteixo, and we will open them before this legislation is over. And before this legislation is over, there will be no waiting list in the children's schools in Galician Union. [[Applause]] That's why all the staff of the Social Policy Council will expect an intense work between March and September to meet this goal as well, as we will do others. Last Monday, February 1st, we incorporated the children enrolled in the extraordinary call of December; 288 new children in the children's schools of the network of the Union of Galicia. It is true that the Administration must be the first to set an example in the area of conciliation, but it is also necessary to transfer this objective to businesses. The Social Policy Council proposes to make progress in the co-responsibility of the Public Administration of Enterprises in the development of conciliation measures and in promoting the setting-up of child schools in industrial polygons and business parks in the next course. With this in mind, a joint action was initiated by the Autonomical Administration and the business associations, where, at their request, the Galician Union will finance the expenditure derived from the construction of small schools in industrial polygons according to the business associations. I can't forget the numerous families. Many families form an important part of our family policy. For the development of the strategy of many families, we took into account the Galaga Association of Many Families. The number of measures collected in the strategy is 53; 48 of them are autonomous, 8 of which fall within the Plan for Demographic Dynification. These measures have a multiannual budget of EUR 36 million. Some of the benefits of numerous families in Galicia are: a tax deduction of EUR 250 or EUR 400 in the autonomous quota of the IRPF, according to the category is general or special; the reduction of long-term transport rates in the Galician metropolitan transport plan, with a discount, as I said earlier, of 20% and 50%; the 45% subsidy on social security allowances for the recruitment of caregivers to the family service; the increase in the income limit to be entitled to the economic allocations of the Social Security by family benefits; the extension of the period considered to be quoted and the job reserve in the case of child or daughter care surpluses; the exemption and award of fees and fees for enrolment; and the preference in the taxation of squares in public centres and in the public schools. Another of the programs I would like to highlight is the Family Mediation Program. This is a voluntary procedure aimed at facilitating communication between family members, in order to manage themselves the solution of conflicts. To that end, we put at their disposal a mediator, who acts in a neutral and confidential manner. Family mediation can be used both prior to the initiation of a judicial proceeding and to find a way out of ongoing proceedings. The objectives of this program are: to minimize the emotional cost of any conflict in the members of a family, to improve relationships between the parties, to avoid instrumentalization of minors in families, to ensure the protection of the child's well-being and to promote shared parental responsibility. I want to inform you that in recent years 128 mediations have been conducted, of which 86 have been agreed. I would also like to point out that by the end of 2015 intrajudicial mediation has been implemented in the cities of Lugo and La Coruña, thus adding to the cities in which there already existed, Santiago, Ourense, Vigo and Pontevedra, and that in 2016 it will be launched also in Ferrol, who did not exist. With this kind of mediation, we will achieve the brevity of the process that reduces the emotional burden, the coverage by a team of professional mediators – and we are talking about the schools of lawyers and psychologists – and the simultaneousness, when necessary, in the judicial process. I would also like to highlight the family guidance offices, alongside the families that require it, to solve crisis or conflict situations, eliminating, or at least at least attenuating, the consequences that they have brought together, especially preventing the involvement of children and children in their parents' conflicts. And for that we have family guidance offices and a specialized resource to support, promote the quality of life of families, as well as attention to problematic or risk situations that may be associated with family disintegration processes. This family support, which covers the fields of information, education, prevention, personal and emotional assistance, guidance and support to families, also provides that advice is often needed for decision-making and conflict-making. Family guidance offices set out the purpose of family support for strengthening, enriching and improving the quality of life of people in the family and family as a group. In addition, in order to make the situation of each family as much as possible easier, those who wish to do so can obtain all free information and advice online as well. The Galician Council in general and the Council for Social Policy in particular, in compliance with the regulations governing the system of protection for children and adolescents, we have a firm commitment to support and strengthen the social and family integration of children at risk or unemployment in the standard social and family environment. In this context, the Cooperation Convention between the Social Policy Council and the Children's Foundation for the financing of expenditure arising from the development of the family integration programme in the four provinces of the Autonomous Community is set out. This program aims to serve as a multidisciplinary intervention tool in the area of integration of minors, addressing primarily families with minors in centres or at risk, and seeks to enhance their psychopersonal resources and skills, thus consolidating their socio-family integration and at the same time correcting existing deficits in families, so as to ensure the integral development of children and the coverage of their parents' needs. In the area of family prevention, in the field of family reunification, in the field of family functionality, a programme that will have more funding this year than in the previous year, exactly EUR 618.000. Speaking of families, I would also like to talk about another important service for the Greeks and for the Greeks: the family meeting points. They are a service that facilitates and preserves the relationship between the minors and the people of their families in a crisis situation, which allows and guarantees the safety and well-being of children and children and facilitates compliance with the visit regime. The seven family meeting points are the title of the Galician board, and will be managed through various non-profit social entities with which the Social Policy Council signs the administrative contracts for the moment. The Galician Union began this service in 2000, to which EUR 150,000 was allocated. I think it's worth highlighting the joint effort of the different governments to achieve, in 2015, 667,000 euros, multiplying by five the amount we spent on these points a few years ago. The number of cases attended is 1,800, more than 26,000 deliveries and gathered, more than 2,600 protected visits and 5,300 supervised visits. I insist, to finish with, that we want to make Galicia a good place to have a family, a good place to have children and daughters; above all, a good place for all children to grow up in equality. I hope and hope that with this appearance we will be able to integrate new strategies into the forums I have previously reported and that we will have before this summer. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u116	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u117	Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Thank you, President. Counsellor, I suppose you know the origin of family policies. The source, the necessity of these policies, emerges at the end of World War II, with the total incorporation of women into the world of work outside the homes. Once women's participation in the paid labour market is admitted as positive and irreversible, and in a context of recognition of labour and social rights, and advancement of women's emancipation, many European nations have legislated and developed social and family policies; the latter are based on the favourable fact of women's intervention in the world of production to, Counsellor, resolve the employment and family reconciliation of workers who decided to be mothers. And how? By establishing the interventions that the Public Administration must undertake to facilitate resources so that women with work responsibilities can appropriately combine them with family responsibilities and schedules. So the design of family policy is based on setting out as a common matter that affects the entire citizenry problems affecting family units, and trying to give them a collective response through the development and implementation of public policies. It is not, therefore, counsellor, if you have listened to me, the source or purpose of family policy to eradicate poverty or social exclusion; it is not born with that sense. It is also not born with the matter of solving and influencing population growth or decline. This is clear to you. On the other hand, the state of poverty and aging that Galicia is experiencing today are not only the remnants of the consequences of the financial crisis, but it constitutes a new feature of a new model of society, and this society is a consequence of policies that maintain not only levels of poverty that affect the broad sectors of the population, but that enshrine inequalities and limit opportunities for the vast majority of society, not only for families with children or children. That is why, Counsellor, we must not face the situation of poverty and exclusion with measures and policies of Christmas and beneficence. Rather, the risk or situation of poverty and inequality should be faced with changes in policies that generate them and maintain them, such as, for example, a new model of economic development that bets on investment in R & D+i, and in which competitiveness does not achieve the cost of over-exploitation at work, but rather by improving labour protection instead of wages, stability and shifts; with a new model of taxation with greater revenue capacity and greater progress; also, Counsellor, social policies need to be strengthened and the cuts corrected; and also, Counsellor, derogating the provision of Law 27/2013, of rationalization and sustainability of the local administration, which – this law – cuts the competitive level of local entities in social services. They have seen many initiatives against this law in this Parliament, because this law has brought a severe blow against local democratic management and against the public system of social services and because it has given rise to a scenario of uncertainty, which threatens the continuity of many of these services so necessary to this day and which have to be supplanted with the charity of charitable entities, such as Caritas or food banks, when, please, it should be the state and the different administrations who implement a model based on equality, social justice, the redistribution of wealth and solidarity. We must also amend the Civil Code to correct the legal anomaly that maintains unlimited universal responsibility, and adopt a law that protects individuals in cases of breach of indebtedness, residing this protection in specialized public services in combination with social services, which advises and restructures the accumulation of debts as a pre-mandatory measure of ordinary legal channels. This would avoid the current difficulties to end the mortgage evictions and the debts accompanying, Counsellor, the people, and the families to which they belong, for life. We also need to pass a minimum income law, and work to get the central government back the cuts to the unit to recover the funding of the concerted plan for the provision of social basic services, signed in 1987 between the state and the autonomous communities, up to the level prior to the cuts. Why? In order for public structures to ensure the protection of families impoverished by the system against attempts to return to aesthetic and beneficial practices, as I mentioned earlier. In Galicia, which is what we are interested in now and in this Parliament, the dependency waiting list reaches 24 %, according to the 2015 Social Services Development Assessment Report, which poses a very serious problem in addressing the attention of 15,000 people with a degree of right 1. It also envisages the previous report, which I have just quoted, the development of social services in Galicia in 2015 as, Counsellor, irrelevant. And this report also criticizes home aid to the detriment of benefits for family care, because this system makes it difficult to speed up, which generates casualties of right-wing people, of whom a good number – as you have to know – die without receiving attention. To set the goals of the Welsh Family Policy Plan, you – according to the text I read – as a reference to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2010-2014, which sets as one of its priorities to promote demographic renewal, as well as the Plan of Demographic Dynamicization. The serious demographic problem – Galician speaking, Galician speaking – in Galicia is not only due to the decline in the number of births. The descent of birth, Counsellor, is a reality throughout Western Europe, whose causes would be the subject of another debate which has nothing to do with this. The aging of the population of Galicia is strongly, strongly, determined by emigration, the youthful emigration of the most prepared generation of our country's history, which is forced to leave. As a result of that? As a result of the failure of our country's wealth management model. A model that cannot create its own, quality and future productive fabric for a 21st century Greek society. Counsellor, youth unemployment in Galicia reaches almost 50 percent; at worst, I say, that's why Greek women refuse to bring their children to a world that doesn't offer them futures or prospects. Today I've just read in the newspaper the fact that there are already 1.2 people in Galicia for every unemployed person or pensioner. According to the Life Conditions Survey, the INE, of 2013, Galicia has a poverty rate of 15.4%, and it is the third community in the state as compared to the percentage of homes that go through a lot of difficulties to reach the end of the month. This INE statistic collects the European indicator Arope, risk of poverty and social exclusion, which combines three concepts based on income with the possibilities of consumption and employment: the aforementioned risk of poverty, the material shortage and the low employment intensity. In this paragraph, the rate of risk of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia is 23.8 per cent; in the indicator of severe material deficiency, 5,5 per cent; and 14,9 per cent for people living in low-labour households.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u119	It's over, Mr. President. There are 602,000 Galicians and Greeks who are at risk of poverty and exclusion according to the report The state of poverty in Spain. I'm done, and I'm leaving for the replica other things I have to tell you. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u120	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. By the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u121	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. The truth is, after your 35-minute monologue to repeat four initiatives we've been listening to for three years in this House, I'm absolutely moved to approach my friends and neighbors of Vilagarcia who want to have a son but have no job, who are about to be thrown out of their homes, who have wages of less than 600 euros, for animals to have children, because your goal is to turn Galicia into a good country to have children. Man, that's what the president already said at a government control session, but, I wonder, if he's so good, he'll start by setting an example. But not only that, not just that, which is a prank I said here. But what reality is it? The reality is that for this country to have population growth, it has to have sufficient economic conditions for people to understand that it can survive with a minimum quality of life. And, of course, you have proved here today to be a leafy advisor, because it is insensitive to the social reality of this country, because this 2015-2020 Strategic Plan analyses in a very profound and very powerful way the social situation that leads us to a lack of population growth. And it has to do with, above all, economic policies that condemn poverty to most of our population. The first question that recognises the strategic plan itself is that in this country there are five mortgage rises every day; five families lose their housing every day in this country. In front of that, you only offer a bonus-rent help, for those who have that situation, of at most 150 euros. But, of course, what you don't say is how the owner of the house will be persuaded to rent someone who has no resources for 150 euros a month. You tell me how many houses of 150 euros a month ago. The homeless have increased in this country. The latest data from the Red Cross say that at least every night there are 1,300 people in this country -- 1,300 people who could also have a family, they could also have children, but it's impossible for them to have them because they sleep in this country, 1,300 people every day. Your own report – which is annexed to that document you are proposing – says that severe material poverty has increased in this country, and that, above all, inequalities have increased. Look at that! And not just that. When you talk about families, about the possibility of living a decent life in this country, and about increasing the demographic issue, what you don't say is that single-parent families in this country have 57.5% chance of risk of poverty; that is, in this country, more than half of single-parent families are at risk of poverty. And in view of that, you only put four absolutely insufficient recipes: a check-and-check of only 100 euros a month, when the minimum cost of any child in his first year of birth is 8,000 euros – 8 000 euros of minimum cost of a child in his first year, recognized by the families; even today they were in this Parliament to give that data. Well, you, 100 euros check-in baby. When you suggest that besides – a situation that should at least leave on the table – the situation of poverty is inherited in this country; that it is virtually impossible to get out of a situation of poverty when your family is in that situation; that there is no such leap, which is impossible, because policies condemn families who are in a situation of violation. So, what I'm asking you is that you can't just put yourself on the table absolutely assistive criteria, you have to go to the source of the problem. Why do we have that demographic problem? Why do we have the problem of poverty in this country? Well, above all, because we don't have work, because we don't have enough economic capacity and also because we don't have the minimum living conditions. And for that, we have to start talking. How dare you come here to talk about reconciling personal and family life when the People's Party approved a job reform that, among other things, eliminated the possibility that women had to determine when and how in their working day they adapted to childcare? Now the employer decides it, and when the employer decides it, the woman does not have the ability to adapt to that situation. That is a reform of the People's Party, a reform that is above the table and which has also caused dismissals in this country. And salary reduction. How is it possible for families to be encouraged to have children when the only percentage, the only working population collective that has increased in the last year, are those who receive less than the minimum wage, 635 euros a month? Would you be able to have children and keep a family of less than 635 euros a month? I think that's very complicated, they're real "superheroes" in this country, those families that in that economic situation are capable not only of having children, but of keeping them with a minimum dignity. But when we talk about you worrying about the situation of conciliation, children's schools should, for example, address what is being done in this country is to reduce the staff of children's schools and educate the educational couple. And eliminate the possibilities of properly addressing many of these children in child schools, because with the same professionals they are taking more steps – with the same professionals! – and therefore making that attention very complicated. I'll give you another example. How do working parents and mothers do to take their children to schools when Plan Madruga has to be subsidized by the ANPA and paid directly by those parents? For many of these parents, the 30 euros of Plan Madruga means a very important approach that goes to their pockets, and hence to their living conditions. And you guys don't do anything about it. Other questions you raise about your budget. Look, I'm going to give you a data on your budget that I think is very significant, absolutely important, about what your social policy has to do with it. Left what has to do with your department's budgeting dependency, and the 173 million euros of wages, there's only 257 million euros left for all of your department's services. Do you know what that means, with more than 600,000 people in this country at risk of poverty? That we just dedicate to each of these people 0.70 cents a day. You have this council, you have this country, 0.70 cents a day to meet the 670,000 people at risk of poverty. With 0.70 cents a day, it's very difficult for these people not to abandon the poverty situation anymore, but to have a decent life plan. I'd like one day to be taught a little house, because it's the third year that the child's house is announced, and at last today they have to recognize that what they're doing is a training plan for those who take care of the child's house. I'd like to see you, of course, when you leave this year – that you will leave this year – start to run some small house and we can see some small house, because if you don't have to be the next government that comes up in the river, rising in the tide, you can do those things that you haven't done. [[Murmurs.]] It bothers me deeply, in addition, to talk about things that others have done and not you: to put me as an element to increase motherly milk banks, when it is a decision of the workers themselves, self-organized to do so, and has nothing to do with their management, absolutely nothing to do with it! A worker's decision and self-management of workers. So what is your balance not only of your months as advisor, but of the seven years of the People's Party's economic disaster in Galicia? Four measures – again repeated – to increase birth; the same four measures that have been done for a long time and have shown that they fail. The only effective measure to improve the birth of this country is, at least, to comply with the Constitution. Look what revolutionary is becoming AGE! To comply with the Constitution, which says a number of things: to guarantee a decent housing for citizens of this country and to guarantee them sufficient wages. With enough wages for each of the people we live in this country, I can assure you that the demographic problem would be another. But you are in another dynamic, in the dynamics that are recognized in this strategic plan: the increase in social inequality in this country. While poverty, inequality, the expulsion of homes, homes that do not meet the minimum housing requirements, also increases, at the same time, the number of high-end cars purchased in this country. That's his country model, the country model of inequality, where people have been stolen to deliver it to the dome. In this country there are too many choruses that are stealing our people's bread. Too many spells stealing our people's bread Just what corruption has cost us in this country – even in Galicia – many of these problems could have been eliminated because we would have enough public money to care for our people, not a risk situation like today. I'd like you to answer this. In a situation of 600,000 people at the poverty line, how is it possible that 50% of the risks are denied? 50 percent! By the way, you know, like me, that we're facing uncoordinated social services and that they're not proactive; that you have to go ask the person to ask for social service, that he has to go there and do everything. For example, when a person who is on the street, in a situation of exclusion, is going to ask an emergency aid to a municipality – dependent on the board and the council – a Risga, the first one to give him is a leaflet like this, where there are at least fifteen documents to deliver, fifteen documents! You have to travel through all state administrations and the council so you can have the documents. After three months, he finally has the documentation, and it takes another three months to charge. Six months without one income for their incompetence and their inability to solve the country's problems!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u123	So we hope that in the reply you will say some rules, some concrete proposals, and not generalities, and 35 minutes of empty speech from a leaf counselor. Nothing else and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u124	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u125	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counsellor, Members and Members. Frankly, it's just that I'm sitting there listening to you...! This appearance... what's this appearance for? I understand that there is a point in the development of the plenary where the Government has to appear, and, normally, I suppose, a decision will be made and a comparison will be made. But the title was about family policies. I remember that here is a law passed by the Government of Feijóo – hence with a vote against the BNG – on family policies. Anything developed even from that law that you did? No, nothing developed. And you've come to tell us what you've already told us -- if I don't miss memory -- in this House three times: the budgets, the lines of your board... absolutely nothing new, totally destructed. And what exactly are family policies? That's the question. Mrs. Iglesias made a very good reflection to begin with. You know there's always a fight between family policies and equality policies, clearly; even the European Union recognizes it. Because gender transversality and family policies, which, in fact, understand the units of cohabitation in this way and continue to maintain the role of women's caregivers, besides as unremunerated work in much, because, of course, it has a gender bias that we should analyze. I don't want to go into that anymore, just. When talking about family policies, we would have to change terminology and take steps, distinguishing policies of co-responsibility, of support for citizenship, of support for individuals, for family members, by taking a model that you, in addition, have named several times – Sweden, Finland – where equality policies coop and cross each and every one of the family policies. Not only as timely economic aid, but as a programming, so that members of those families do not have to change their vital expectations – of personal development, of labour development, of intellectual development – depending on whether they want or not, whether or not they can, have children and children. But without entering into that question that for us is central and basic, which is that one cannot understand family policies without incorporating a gender perspective or being at least developed and built also with interaction with the General Secretariat of Equality, you really did make an exposition on the demographic situation of Galicia, which you have already explained on repeated occasions in this terrible Parliament, with terrible data. Indeed, I had brought here Galician demographics since Mr Feijóo was president. Because there is a significant loss of population in Galicia, by the year 2014, when it comes to the Spanish population, we mean only 5.9 %. And with an increase in population aging in recent years, in the last ten years, a year and a half, which is a great increase in aging. Without really increasing dependency policies in the same relationship as increasing the ageing of the population, especially the dispersion and rural. And finally, something you forgot, which is emigration. Since 2009 – according to IGE data – 107,000 people emigrated; 77,000 between 16 and 35 years old. That's what we can call boys and girls, people who are usually at that stage of life where, if they want vital projects, they have children and daughters. Well, that's what you're talking about: days. Great! We'll be delighted and delighted to participate in those days that you seem to invite us to the month. I don't know whether June or July, in partnership with European projects. Nothing new. Since the Fraga governments and the Bipartite have participated in European projects on the subject of demography, as you probably know. And then, portfolio of social services for children and families. What will this social service portfolio bring? Anything new? Or do we do what we always do? Every time we write a document, we put the programs that exist in a new document again. A decree, what will it bring? Children's schools. You're telling us there's 33% coverage. I want to remind you that with public funds, it doesn't mean they're all public squares. They're not all public squares. And you in the Consortium did what they did was cut schedule – hence, less reconciliation – and eliminate the educational couple, which was a achievement. Because children's schools are not only a means of reconciliation, but an educational resource, and that's something they've done. Tell us that it's understood by working flexibility, because I wrote it down and I didn't really have time to understand how it's flexible. Because, look, workers and workers are super flexible: they charge less and less, they have a few hours that have nothing to do with what they sign in the contract, and if they have children and daughters, they only have to go to school for the first hour and know what someone who has that challenge to have a child or a little daughter is exposed to. See, with regard to numerous families, any more measures than the metropolitan transport? No, for the record. I'm also a large family, so I must be losing some of the measures, surely. Exactly what will be done? This morning we met with them and we're about at the same point as a few years ago. We're talking about VAT, actually, and I don't think it's just the leather VAT, as we were told this morning, but about all the early childhood products, actually. And not only for large families, for single-parent families, for any type of unit of cohabitation that has children and children, EVV is one of the major problems. Do you intend to transfer something to the state? Children's houses. I agree with Mr. Fajardo, too. I'd like to know what they consist of. Because we've heard about the nesting houses and I'm... I'm not going to say that an X file, and I don't share the view they have about the nesting houses. I think there could be another series of better public services in rural areas than children's homes. But it's just that Mrs. Beatriz Mato told us about the children's homes... every time we talk about demography, the children's houses are something like, really, the philosophical stone that will be able to restore the demographic balance in Galicia. Well, we already know there's gonna be a decree in the second quarter, but is there anyone in anticipation? And then the bonds he put us here have explained them many times. I'm not going to tell you about the check-be, I don't want to repeat myself, but you know perfectly well what we think about that check. It's good that we bring it back here again, but it's just a measure that you've criticized in Zapatero and now they're putting it into operation much smaller. Look, then, with all due respect, to talk to us here about family policies and about mediation, the GOFs and the points of encounter with children and children, I forgive myself, I know that you would certainly have prepared it in your department, but frankly it's a undoing. We know how family meeting points work, I know it perfectly and I'm not going to criticise you about it, but they're not family policies. It's neither family mediation nor the GOF nor the policies of minors. In any case, I'm that part that you don't know where to place between Justice and social services, and they're there, as on nobody's land, and that's really a fundamental problem. I don't care at the meeting points how many children and girls, how many transits they get, but the situation that lives on all those meeting points. Don't come here and tell us you've increased by 5 percent. We know it's increased, and I know it perfectly, but we're all so quiet here knowing that at the family meeting points there are tremendous, terrible situations! 600,000 euros is really a misery in a budget from the Union to relieve the children and the children and the situations they are in, the difficulties that these workers have, the need for psychological care that many of these children have, and how the departments of Justice have been looking elsewhere for years, when they decided that the parents who do not agree, there we sent them to the family meeting points. I'm the family meeting points, the GOFs, the family mediation, which, of course, I think are important programs, I don't understand that even if they're in your department, they have nothing to do with family policies, with demographics and with the improvement of the quality of life of families, they're something else and another debate. As far as that situation is concerned, here no one can, of course, put on any medal. In any case, all less because of the difficulty we have and which has had to manage the aspects referred to to minors, the points of family encounter. What it means for a minor to be delivered and collected as the deliverer and pick up a package. And that's the reality, that's it. And it's not a criticism of you, it's a critique of the system that sets what the family meeting points are. So, as I no longer understand it as family policies, what came to explain to us here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u127	...freely, was there no possible appearance for today to tell us something new? If you have any measure, one new measure, tell us before it's over, in the replica. We'll thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u129	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counselor, the truth is that something similar to Mrs. Adam's has happened to me. She passed it today, listening to you, and I passed it when we learned at the Speaker's Board that I came to you to explain family policies. Because, frankly, counsellor, after the appearance to make the explanation of general policy, and after the appearance of budgets, this appearance of yours today, the only thing you're coming to do is to occupy the space that the Government has to show up. Of course, it is unfortunate that this Government has never been able to admit the process of attending the opposition groups, because the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which I represent in this debate, since this legislation was begun, but also the previous one, and as unemployment data, poverty data, exclusion data, of our parents, we have been asking to appear in one and another House of Representatives, repeatedly, the President of the Government to explain to us what policies are taking place, and until today we have never succeeded. President Feijóo never wanted to come to Parliament to explain why the behaviour of employment policies in Galicia is worse than that of the state as a whole, and why poverty is rising in our country. But, yes, send him to you to hold a new session – as my comrade Losada would say – of advertising and propaganda, which is what it is: advertising and propaganda. Then you come to talk about family policies, but you seem to forget a part of the family. Of course, forget about the various families, that's clear enough with this government. But there is a part of the family, older people are also part of the family, people with disabilities are also part of the family, dependent people are also part of the family. What's the matter, they don't have any funny measures to announce? What you saw doing here today was announcing what you had already announced in the debate of your take of possession to explain the general policy and in the budget debate. I mean, gratifying measures that put the Government on the table on eve election days to attract a part of that likely electorate that is losing, but that are not measures that consolidate in time as rights for people. And look, Counselor, we don't want a policy for families with graceful measures, we want politics for families with consolidation of rights, because it's the only possible guarantee – and yet it's complicated – that whoever's in government, the families in our country can have access to those rights. The rights we want them in the laws, not in the political will of the government of turn when elections arrive, in this autonomous case. [[Applause]] And then I'll blow up every one of your ads, because some of them have their part of comment that needs to be done, but I'll refresh your data on what the current situation in Galicia is. My companion Maria Quintas will also do so tomorrow at the interpellation, but I'm going to give you a little advance, Counselor, because this is the families. Turns out, since you're in the government, there's 76,100 less active assets, less active people, in our country. The rate of activity dropped by two points; the number of unemployed fell by 137,800; the number of unemployed people rose by 60,100; the long-term unemployed, by one year or more, rose by 13,400, and by two years or more; 78,700; the number of employed persons with indefinite contracts decreased by 52,000; the number of employed persons with temporary contracts decreased by 37,300; the full-time unemployed fell by 152,100, that is to say, the employed in part-time. Do you know what these figures say, what you all say together, it looks like they don't say anything? They say that in Galicia today there is more unemployment, more precariousness, less coverage for people who have no employment, more poverty and more social exclusion. That's the portrait of the families we have today in Galicia. By the way, and an increasing pay gap between men and women, 79 more days a year would have to work for the Greek women if they wanted to equate their wages to men, for the same reason. For the same work! That's the picture of families, and besides, the policies that you've put in place, for example, with Galician social inclusion income, they only serve 30% of people who could be the subject of this benefit. It's true that you've increased the budget, it's also true that you've increased the number of people in poverty or social exclusion. But look, this also affects families, for when is the decree that develops the law of inclusion? Remember? Six months since the law was published. How many months does that decree go without being on the table? You announced, when you arrived at the council, that it was imminent. We're waiting for you, Counselor. Unit. What do you want me to say? I spend less per inhabitant than the average of the state; the largest waiting list of all autonomous communities; greater cohesives. And they suppressed, for example, the affiliation of caregivers, women almost always. Remove the Government of the People's Party, in Mr. Rajoy's case. Social services of proximity to the municipalities, which are the ones who first have to care for families. What did you guys do? You know, he was president of the Fegamp. They made a report against this law of Mr. Rajoy, emptying of powers the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants. And now where are we, in limbo? Because in theory, in this month of January that just passed, the Galician Social Services Agency had to take over the powers of the Consortium and we had to start working on that new competency map. No one knows what's going on, and nothing's going to happen, Counsellor, because this excuse is going to be done with the funding of the Town Councils... but you're not even beginning to consider making a negotiation with the local authorities for a new funding? But if you won't be ruling in Spain! How will they promise what they can't do? Education. Policies that also affect families. Free solidarity from Mr. Feijóo. That solidarity freeness of Mr Feijóo, who removed the freeness of textbooks, costs the Greeks and the Greeks more than 30%, and serves 40% less of the families. Children's schools. You also talked about them. Do you know they've doubled the registration price since you've been in the government? What reviewed the price table that had been in force since 2002, in 2012, and doubled the registration price? What do you think, that has little impact on families? Defeats. Housing is a priority policy for families. Every year 2,500 evictions occur in our country. Recently it has changed prevalence and there are many more challenges for rent than for own housing. You've put 500 homes to the disposal service. There are 2,500 evictions every year, and you put in 500 homes. They just took 50, why is that? Cops in the meds. Doesn't that affect families? Didn't you diminish your purchasing power? Electric ticket. It was also other of the policies they put in place for families; absolutely ridiculous, absolutely bureaucratic and absolutely insufficient. And you come and tell us that it will give a new social impulse to family policies. But how? If you have invested 4 billion euros less in social policy since Mr Feijóo is president! And we're talking about the demographic and consensus plan in the demographic plan. Look, Counselor, you weren't then, I did. The processing of the demographic plan that the Government of Feijóo has made was absolutely embarrassing for parliamentary groups. In the afternoon, we were given half an hour to present the motions for resolutions. They did not even accept all the work that had been done in the previous legislation with that study commission that was created in the Galician Parliament at the instance of an initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. They made a demographic plan without consensus, in any haste, without concrete measures, without quantifying objectives; a demographic plan, ultimately far worse than that of Mr Fraga. And what's worse, they didn't want to accept the proposals that we made to him either the opposition groups or the experts. Do you want a consensus? Look, I'm going to leave you here, and I'm going to hand you the 33 motions for resolutions presented by the Socialist Group to this demographic plan so that it was really a quantifiable and evaluable demographic plan, and not that wet role that you presented to us. Tax rebates. But since you rule, the People's Party, tax pressure has increased on families between 2 and 3 points at national level! What are you talking about? Oh, yes, and he discovered Europe. Now they go to the Committee of the Regions and talk about demography...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u131	...and family policies. It is good that of the Committee of the Regions, which goes from time to time, but it would be better if Mr Feijó's government advisors knew what the European Commission is, because you know what, that's the Government. The Committee of the Regions is not governed. Decisions are governed and taken by the European Commission. And perhaps it was good that, from time to time, they had interviewed the European Commission and left aside that usual tour they make by the Committee of the Regions. And then she told us about the numerous families, the family meeting points...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u132	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u133	How can you come here to talk about the family meeting points, knowing that children and girls of women victims of macho violence go to those meeting points and meet the aggressors there, with their parents? How can you make these claims that they make here that they bet...? And then, look, you talked about juvenile centers here, and I have to remind you today what's going on in downtown Santo Anxo, in Rabade, which is a public center, of the few that are left, who attends to minors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u134	It's over, it's over. You've got another shift, Mrs. Gallego. He's got another shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u135	...and what these days had to go to the Civil Guard and intervene there to reduce to a minor, something that hadn't happened in the history of that center and something that has to do with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u137	...especially with the clippings and its ideology, with the politics that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u138	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u139	...you're privatizing everything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u140	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u141	This is your family policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u142	People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gallego, a pity that you have brought the Socialist Group's proposals for the Galician Demographic revitalization Plan! Because you took those proposals in the commission and left with them. He didn't even stand there with the People's Party to debate them when he had to introduce them, and now he comes here with the Socialist Group's proposals, but well... [[Applause]] The criticisms of Members and Members of the opposition to a meeting of the Social Policy Adviser on the political lines in the field of children, family and conciliation are very surprising. And it turns out that the opposition is limited, solely and exclusively, to criticizing why the counselor comes in. Well, look, the counselor comes here to present not only what is being done in family politics, but what is going to be done. And what you should do, instead of coming here and criticizing a counselor to appear in this House before the members of this Parliament, was to come here and present their proposals, because they know perfectly well that the council has just presented a draft of a Greek family policy plan that is open to proposals from all citizens and also proposals from opposition groups. And, of course, instead of criticizing him coming in, what you should do is study this document a little bit and submit proposals to it, because I think it would be more efficient, of course, for all families and for all children in Galicia. [[Applause]] To begin with, because you would know that one of the measures is to apply for a reduced VAT rate for products of first need and attention to children under the age of 6. I'm saying it because you've just claimed it and it's already covered in the plan. That's why I think it would be a very good idea for you to take a look at it and make your contributions. And look, in the morning in this Parliament, a socialist Member said that budgets are the real programme of government. And the advisor comes to explain the budgets that he's going to set up for the Galician Children's Union, for families and for conciliation, and you say he always comes to talk about it. Well, look, budgets are necessary to put in place certain policies, because we have to pay services, right? For it turns out that this budget of the Galician Union for 2016, which means – which seems to be that you don't care about – are more resources to fight against inequality and social exclusion; they are more resources to care for dependents and our elders; they are more resources to support people who need it most; but they are also more resources to support children, families and to support reconciliation. And, of course, commitment is not shown here in words, commitment is shown in figures, and by the year 2016 97.2 million euros are allocated to children and the family. We're talking about a 40% increase in this area, in the budget for children and the family. But in addition to the budget, what we're talking about is family conciliation programs. Of the bond-conciliation, which seems to be that you don't seem necessary, but I'm sure that those families who don't have a place in a children's school in Galicia City or in the place where they live, surely it seems good that the board devotes EUR 3.4 million to helping them pay that place from a child's school to their child and to their child. It seems that you don't see the importance of the good caretaker in rural areas, but surely those people who live in a place where there's no children's school need to take their children and their children to a child's school, and they probably feel like 3 million euros. And you're going to make fun of the welcome card once more; that direct 100 euros per month during the first year, 9 million euros. And surely at least those 1,000 families who have already applied for the welcome card do not share what you just said. Because they won't share the 8 out of every 10 families who will be entitled to access that welcome card. And we also talk about tax measures for families. We just heard here, really, a statement by the socialist spokesman...! Look, the birth and adoption deduction has increased, and you know it! from 300 to 360 for the first child; 1,200 for the second child and 2,400 for the third child. And besides, the limit of childcare deduction was doubled, from 200 to 400, and you know it. And they know that families now have more services. They know that there are children and children at the most squares of children's schools: 3,864 in children's schools in the Blue Chicken network; an increase of 96.8%. Is it not important for you that in Galicia there are now 96.8% more squares than there were in 2009? Don't families need to take their children to a childhood school? Is it not important that Galicia has 20,500 squares, that we first achieve the ratio recommended by the European Union? Do we have to remind you that in 2009 the coverage ratio was 19%, 14 points below what the European Union recommended? And you come here to criticize the advisor that new childhood schools are being set up for our children and our children! The truth is, you should study the document that I just said well. And besides squares in children's schools, there are more social squares; we have more squares in residences, 49%; more squares in day centers, 72%; also squares for people with disabilities, 91%. And there's a specific plan to fight child poverty; there's a specific plan and you know it. A plan, through the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy, which has more than 521 million euros to carry out these more than 300 actions, within which you are fighting child poverty. And they also know that there is a plan to fight economic inequality with 20 million euros, where there are drug subsidies to families, where mobility support material is carried out for those families who need it, where it helps to buy school material, where it helps to pay bills to those families who cannot cope with it. And for you it turns out that this social plan against inequality, a plan to fight child poverty and a specific family policy plan, where more than 700 measures are taken, is not important for the Social Policy Adviser to come to this Parliament to explain the measures. It was indeed on 12 February when this draft was presented at the Council of the European Union, the draft of the Italian Family Policy Plan, to comply with that law, Mrs Adán, that law that we have adopted and that we are debating in this Parliament; a draft which has been submitted to the organizations and entities working in this sector. In addition, what the council will do is to seek that maximum consensus, and of course, what you had to do is to study the document, so that this consensus with the entities and that consensus with the associations that work in this field was also with consensus, with the proposals and with the work of the opposition. Because look, there's no leafy councilman here, if you don't present the proposals, what's a ball opposition. And, of course, children, children and families don't deserve a ball opposition. They deserve an opposition that works and presents initiatives. [[Applause]] Of course, Counsellor, we are aware of this plan that addresses fundamental social rights that affect families' lives, such as employment, housing, health, education and social protection. We support that determined bet that makes the Galician Council for Children, for Families and for Conciliation, and we look forward to more news of that draft of the Greek Family Policy Plan. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is you can make a rather grim replica. I intended to talk and discuss measures that had to do with the family, with family policies, which, as you know, are concentrated in a general direction, which is the General Directorate of Family, Children and Demographic Promotion. A general address on which we said there's a very important budget bet, reaching the 97 million euros. The difference between the budgetary bet of family policies this year 2015 compared to that of 2009, is simply doubled. I say it because Mrs. Rodríguez said it before. It's often said that there's no budgetary commitment, no budgetary commitment. Now, look, the budgetary commitment to this general direction is to double its resources since 2009. So there's a little more budgetary commitment than there was. And I say, we have to get to more, because we have to get more budgetary resources. The truth is that I thank Mrs. Rodríguez of the People's Group for reading the Welsh Plan of Family Policy, for that has to be our road map. Because there are hundreds of measures planned in that plan that have to be the road map of Galicia's family policy between 2016 and 2020. Because this plan doesn't have four initiatives explained in 35 minutes, it has hundreds of initiatives that have brought the social partners who work with families and who have provided specialized officials from the different social services in Galicia. Look, with regard to the intervention, I'm going to be very brief, because the proposals aren't very interesting... Mrs Iglesias' intervention. Look, I totally agree with what I said about family policy. Mrs. Churches, look, they affect family policies, as I was told -- not the way, I'm sorry -- to family unity, but we must give you a collective answer. That's what we're trying to do, that theoretical definition you were talking about. Then tell me about investment in R & D+i, taxation and the Rationalization Act. Well, when I come up with a development of those proposals, we'll study them. He's also telling me about the Civil Code and the minimum income. He knows perfectly well that it's not a competition we can talk about here; if he urges other governments, obviously, to do it. Look, I don't agree with what he said, that's what I have to tell him: it's happening all over Western Europe. It's just not true. The rate we have in Galicia is not shared throughout Western Europe. We're one of the worst-rate regions. And there will be more reasons than R & D+i, taxation, rationalization; there are reasons for many areas in which we have to work. Does the economic situation affect? Of course it affects, but not solely the economic situation. At times of economic expansion we had the same problem, so we can't simplify. Then, on the subject of emigration, look, I'm not about to discuss data, but here you're constantly talking about IGE data, and the migration balance is positive in Galicia in recent years. You can check it out. Mr. Fajardo, what I was saying about four proposals. Man, don't cut me that much. After 35 minutes of trying to talk about a lot of things, you won't tell me that we bring here four initiatives. Hundreds of initiatives are planned in the Swedish Family Policy Plan, I'm not going to repeat them; you have the plan. We could talk about these proposals, about which are the different contributions from the different groups and their proposals. Indeed, Mrs Gallego, I thank you for giving us those proposals. I'm going to study them, and I'm going to study them because this isn't a problem for a party, for a government. In fact, when you look at the data and see Galicia in 2050, after we've all ruled, with 1.7 million inhabitants, you have to realize that we're talking about a very serious issue, so that in recent years the resources of the General Family Directorate have not been doubled, you have to continue to increase. Look, Mr. Fajardo, tell me about your intervention in economic policies. I'd really like you to talk to me about social policies. They come here to talk about economic data, economic policies, and I understand later why those who want to defend social policies are asking for the CNI. The existence of social policies and a specific councillor for social policy will have to be further appreciated, which is an important demand, to begin with, for the entire social fabric of Galicia. Where you talk about assistanceism, many people come up with an opportunity to have a better social policy and reach the most disadvantaged people. And not only the most disadvantaged people, but the people who paid the consequences of the economic crisis, to whom we have to return the efforts they have made. You'll tell me where 30 euros are paid for Plan Madruga. I know morning plans where the user pays nothing. I'm not going to deny you that data, but, of course, it seems to me that if a public administration pays EUR 30 for bringing the children to an early morning plan, it's perfectly better that performance. Tell me about 0.7 cents after you make multiples, divides and square roots. I give you a given, more than 50 million euros for the only social integration income that exists in Galicia. There have been many promises, but the only income of social integration that exists in Galicia is Risga, and Risga has unfortunately increased more than twice as much in recent years. Mr. Fajardo and Mrs. Adam, with respect to the children's houses, which is one of the things I was talking about in my speech, they won't have one, they'll have thirty, so they can visit them. It's really not to invent anything new, there are European regions that have this system. They have this system because I suppose you know municipalities in Galicia where three children from 0 to 3 years or five children from 0 to 3 years ago. You'll agree with me that a child's school can't be held in a municipality where there are three children, right? because a child's school requires a minimum of staff essential for its operation. That's why we're going to implement this resource, little by little, in all the municipalities of Galicia that do not currently have a conciliation infrastructure. So I told you, they criticize order in the second quarter if you have any suggestions. You can review – I say – some European regions, that my department has been reviewing to finalize them. And if you have any proposals, let's take it into account, too, to improve your system and that, when you visit it, you can see that even if it took a while, it's a positive thing for everyone. Mrs. Adam, tell me why you're coming? They're always saying the government doesn't show up. So we've come to talk about something that seems important to us, which is family policy. I've been here every time they ask me, giving dependency data, giving risk data, giving social inclusion data, and I'm willing to come as many times as this Parliament wants, but today the subject was family politics. Actually, why am I coming in? Because I thought I was going to make some contributions, but I see it's very difficult. Then he said yes. I, of course, believe that they are important for the forum of Spanish regions with demographic challenges and for the working meeting we will have of Resoe. Tell me about the school ratio. Well, look, ratio, high school pitches with public funds. We really don't want to put a stamp on every young German boy who goes into a childhood school to tell him the model of management that the school has, what we have to guarantee is a good service. Labour flexibility. I said, it's already implanted in the Galician Union, there are 700 people who have work flexibility. We would like to make progress in the flexibility of private companies. We think there are ways to do this. It has been planned, and I hope everyone is involved in the Strategic Plan of Galicia. Then tell me they have nothing to do with mediation programs, orientation offices, meeting points. Look, whatever you want, if you don't think we should talk about it, because I don't have a special interest either, but it has been said here that people who have been subjected to gender-based violence, that, of course, I can't admit it. And if such cases occur, action must be taken not by denouncing in this Parliament but by denouncing elsewhere. Mrs. Gallego, you told me about advertising and propaganda, you told me about elections, you told me about unemployment, you told me about contract statistics... He asked me something, too. Are you proposing negotiations with the Town Councils? I've told you for a while. We have already started these talks because we believe that there is an important dispersal in the provision of services by the municipalities, the MPs and the Autonomous Community in Galicia. That's why we all talk about these things and try to reach consensus. Just like we talked to social entities, and we've also reached some important consensus with social entities in a short time. Well, I also hope that those steps that we started with social entities will continue with steps to the municipalities. He told me we had a meeting with the European Commission. Of course, this advisor has been talking about these things with representatives of the European Commission. I didn't speak to the Committee of Regions, but to the European Commission, which is what you were asking of me. So, I say, I hope and I hope that this will allow us to raise awareness of this House, raise awareness of all groups, with which we have a very important challenge, which is to support the family, because we have a demographic challenge that is also important in Galicia, and the family is a fundamental tool in dealing with this demographic challenge. I am aware that it is not an isolated act of a councillor, of the Council of Social Policy, but the Social Policy Council wants to assume the responsibility it has to promote this action; an action which may not be an isolated act of a government, it has to be an act that we share with the Greek society, companies, trade union representatives and civil society, which is essential for us all to be able to change this situation that has been going on in Galicia for years. So I hope that in the next intervention, or in the next days, among all of us we will be able to achieve a strong position of Galicia with regard to these future challenges. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u146	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u147	Thank you, President. Do you see me well, Counselor? I think it's things of the height that we both have. Maybe I didn't see good about that before. Look, your appointment as a social policy advisor is part of this "social ruling" strategy of Nuñez Feijóo, which he announced after the municipal elections that, by the way, he challenged you from the Council of Ferrol. Mrs. Marta Arias, the girls and children of Galicia, the women and men of Galicia, deserve a work and well-being adviser far better than the former mayor of the city of Ferrol; the city with the highest risk of poverty and unemployment, with the average monthly income for the lowest home and to which it suffered, under its mandate, the greatest cuts in benefits. You are the mayor, you have deleted the unit office, the social inclusion office, the immigration office, the minors' office, the volunteer office and the time bank, and now you put your hands on your head! He is the advisor of this policy at the national level. Very worrisome! It is very worrying that the person responsible for drowning practically all the social entities in Ferrol is now responsible for this matter at the national level. I am also concerned about everything your department has to do with equality and conciliation policies, Counsellor. When in 2013, the 25th Day against ill-treatment, International Day against Gender Violence, the head of equality of his Town Hall, in the framework of the acts carried out by his Town Hall, he distributed some biscuits in a bag finished with a pink tie. And the legend in that pink tie said, "I'm sweet, don't be violent." How many equality policies we can expect from you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you say, Mr. Fariñas? Are you addressing me? Mr. President, if you rebuke me, I have to answer. [[Interruptions.]] Counselor, with your past, the story you tell us here has no credit. You've just been mayor of Ferrol, you have a very recent, very suspicious past, and you present us here, now that the elections are coming again, an electoral plan, an unattainable, false and contradictory plan to social policies and conciliatory policies. In my opinion, the administration is far behind society, and you are much more. Family policies cosify, instrumentalize and monetaryize, for the state economy, a way of life that social reality itself excludes for many people. Because no one please don't take us for fools! He's going to think about having kids because an administration gives him 1,000 euros per birth or 100 euros a month. What should you do, the ones who rule... Excuse me? [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u148	I'm ordering to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u149	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u150	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u151	It's running out of time, isn't it? Well, you'll leave me one more minute to finish my intervention. I don't know why they do this scandal when I remind the mayor of Ferrol of the past in social services, that's a fact. No, no, no. Well, I don't care, but during that period it was when he did. Well, what you have to do is create a society where having children is not penalized in the professional field. I mean, above all, women's careers; that being a woman does not devalue our work and our wages. That both parents can raise their daughters and their children, and not park them in kindergartens -- what does the boy's school call? -- from such young children that they have to be raised by grandparents and grandparents, that wages are worthy, and that they don't get new employment indicators as a worker or poor worker. That the children are born without the terrible wish that they will be the first generation to live worse than their parents. Finally, Counsellor, overcome the diluted family policies in social policies of equality, work, health and education, and here are my proposals left, in case you haven't got those before. That is, a new model of society, solidarity and sustainability. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u152	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u153	Very good again. The truth is, I know they're not used to it, but I'm going to apologize because before I made a reference to the president who might not be enough. But as for what the counselor said, I repeat in my consideration of his appearance. You have become a photocall counsellor, a slogan, a real inability to address the problems of this country. Because, when you talk about family policies, and, therefore, in this case too, you've come to talk about demographic policies, you can't go to the root of the problem. And the reason for the problem -- I have already insisted on the previous appearance -- has to do with the socio-economic conditions of this country. And that assistanceism means, for example, that you, who is responsible for the council, should explain why the Galician Social Inclusion Act is breached and is still not drafted, without placing it on the table, that decree that said the law would take six months since its adoption so that a part of Galician Social Inclusion Act would be effective. Why is there such a delay? Because there is inability or little desire to solve the problems of this country. When they talk about social policy, you restrict it to these four things that they repeat each time, and the Risk; a Risk that I give you the data and you don't mention it: 50% of the applications submitted are being denied, 50%. But it's more, what percentage of the population responds to that Risga? More than 600,000 excluded Greeks, only 17,000 Risks granted, or 13,000. Please! That means that the degree of responsibility of this council with the worst people is going through is absolutely zero. I put a reality on the table: 1,700 people sleep on the floor every day in this country. His policy to solve this situation is null and void. And when he talks about proposals, we put proposals on the table and you didn't even know the reality. The first proposal is the proactivity and connection between the social services of this country, between the municipalities and the Union of Galicia. How can you possibly have to travel through all the administrations a person who is on the street, to ask for help, and to deny her because she lacks a bureaucratic procedure, when the board should facilitate and be proactive for that? How can 70% of this country's social emergency aid never be spent? How could the social services of this country not be aware of the set of aids? Or how is it possible that because of this local government reform, the municipalities can't hire more staff to make the reports necessary to grant the help? That has to do with you. But, above all, you have in your strategic plan the greatest severity of this situation, and we're talking about class struggle. You defend one class and I defend another. Why? For the generational transmission of poverty, especially for younger people. What does that mean? That the person is born poor, his family is poor, and his children are poor, because you don't want to give people a chance to get out of that exclusion method, because they defend only part of the population and not the whole population. Look, when you tell me about creating new infant schools in industrial polygons, I should explain why the strategic plan specifically says "for big companies." Are we, once again, giving public money for services from large companies? Don't pemmes need it? Don't small municipalities need it? Are we ever gonna be able to meet this famous little house once and for all? I have, really, an internal situation that doesn't let me live, because I've been listening to what the house is going to be like and I still don't recognize where they are or what they're going to be like. Because the model needs to be known to see if it's a feasible or desirable model for the rural of our country, or even for the coast of our country. Because one of the problems that this country has to do with the situation of children's schools is the poor location of many of our children's schools, which are inaccessible to a very important part of the population. Or, for example, children's schools that don't even have afternoon hours in this country. You can talk about many squares, but there are children's schools that don't have afternoon hours, and therefore they can't attend to shift workers. And when you talk to me about flexibility and that you, in addition, propose that we move it to businesses, I should explain how it is compatible with your job reform, which also has something else that is a bead of the People's Party. It turns out that I, for the care of my son, to go to the doctor, have a license paid in some agreements. Ah! but that I stop going to work to attend to my son, I also computed in that percentage that gives the entrepreneur the right to add to some bass and legally bid off my job because I abstained from my job, even though I had a permit to accompany my children. That's the reform of the People's Party. So when you talk to me about flexibility, be realistic, and when you talk about flexibility, tell me about that job reform that has increased part-time contracts, with days over eight hours, even though 6, 5, 4, 3 or 1. That's the reality of the People's Party, so you, once again, politics of propaganda and the mala, of bad propaganda politics. Possibly, when we talk about the family, the only family that knows the People's Party, is the [...] family of organizations such as those that have mounted in Valencia, Balearics, Madrid, places like this, where it has been shown that the People's Party is an organization designed to delinquency rather than rule. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.)]] [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u154	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. I'm going to remove that family expression because it doesn't seem to me to fit in here. [[Laughter]] That expression is withdrawn, and therefore I have to call it in order. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, no, watch out!, watch out!, that I was watching the debate. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Man, of course, please! There are things you can't afford. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u155	Thank you, President. Look, Counselor, we consider, from this group, that you wanted a headline today, which is "checks are already coming home." We appreciate the work of civil servants and civil servants." In fact, we have to thank you all, I'm sure it was very complex for you to put that system in place. But that was the only holder of this appearance. In addition, the honourable Member has accused us that we have not brought any contributions. You took it from us, too. If you would like, Chapter II of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as we well know, in Article 42 of the Rules of Procedure, it is very clear that: "If the Galician Union had submitted a programme or plan requiring Parliament's pronouncement, the Bureau will order its dispatch to the committee responsible". Two: "The Bureau of the Commission shall organise the process and set deadlines for it. The Commission shall designate, where appropriate, the statement which examines the programme in question. The debate in the committee will be in line with the previous chapter, on the understanding that the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions will be three days, if the Bureau of Parliament decides that those should be discussed in the plenary session." If they consider that, in fact, there is a need for an in-depth debate of the Family Policy Plan in this House, as is the obligation of all Members and Members, when the plan comes in, we will analyse it and present the considerations from each parliamentary group – of course, our commitment – in order to make it possible for it to be discussed, and whether it is considered to be debated in the Commission or in plenary, both it is for us. But we don't consider this to be the right formula for any proposal. In fact, look, here we have presented a law of co-responsibility, to which the People's Party voted against. On 8 March they will have the opportunity to vote on part of these initiatives of equal co-responsibility and work, and we will see whether they are actually in favour of them or not. You have de facto repealed the Law on equal work for women in Galicia, which took measures for conciliation such as the Bank of Times, for example, which has never been implemented. For example, we're waiting for the Muller and Science program, which has a very important part of scientific women and researchers, which is called GAP in the curriculum, because just at the age of their children, they can't make so many publications. It's been approved here two years ago, if I don't miss the memory, which would be presented in 2015; we're in 2016 and all those conciliation measures for women who work in science are undeveloped. Proposals, many proposals have been made. To take them forward to the People's Party? No, no, no, no. If you want to discuss specific proposals for this programme, let us do so as it has to be regulated, not just in a parliamentary debate. They present the plan, we will examine it for the time being, as is our obligation, and I am sure that we will present motions for resolutions. Why don't we introduce them to the Demographic Plan? Because we understood that it was a coat of hair. That's how we understand it! And it's true they were registered there. Mrs. Gallego just left her those of the Socialist Party. And we gave that debate and got angry, why? Because they brought us to a commission, from a CEO, not even the advisor, a plan that said it was central to Galician development. If something is really important, consider the regulation, follow the path of the regulation, we are seriously discussing these contributions, and we, at least this Member and this parliamentary group, are committed to giving serious debate on demography or family policies, as they call them. Now yes, Counselor, you said to support the family. It will support families. Is it so hard to see that the concept of family is different? Why do we pass laws? Because in the Family Law it appears to be collected. Of course, people who have different family models also have the right to be collected in the same language as this House, even though it's only for the Session Journal. So I don't think you need to come here to raise awareness among the groups, as you said. It comes with concrete measures and, if you want our contributions, through this plan as to how plans should be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u157	Well, Counsellor, I appreciate you picking up the proposals that the Socialist Group had made for this demographic dynamization plan and studying them. At least it's something else you did your predecessor in the office, Mrs. Labour and Wellness advisor at that time. We don't like to go to parliamentary committees that take us to hair, you know? And that is what happened in that parliamentary committee, which took us for granted. And a government that had allowed a commission to be held during the past legislative process in this Parliament where it was thoroughly studied which was the whole problem of the decline in demographics in Galicia and which could be the measures to be put in place, where experts and experts have paraded, and even the parliamentary groups have put forward many proposals, collect these proposals, not include them in the demographic dynamisation plan, and bring them to a single session to Parliament, on Christmas Eve, to discuss it in an afternoon and have half an hour to present the motions for resolutions, doesn't it seem serious? Because if it's something that characterizes population policy, it's because it's not urgent. It's urgent that we have to take action, but it's not a policy that's going on day by day. You can wait 5 days, 20 days, to make a good demographic dynamization plan, and that's what didn't happen. That's why I thank you for having gathered those proposals from the Socialist Group, and to see if at least you're able to do something more to him than your predecessor did. Because look, that plan is that, by no means contemplated, it did not contemplate the definition of the problem or the aging of the population or the immigration and the impact it had on demographic policies. It's a coat of hair, Counselor! So let us come to sell here that they have a demographic dynamization plan, which I insist is technically worse, much worse, than Mr. Fraga's plan, because it doesn't seem fair to us. Fight demographic indentation, how can it be done? Well, I think I said it here many times, and my fellow Abel Losada, who is expert in matter, has said many more. There are two measures to be taken: the increase in the rate of female employment and the increase in public services where they need them, basically in the rural environment. These are two measures that must be put in place to fight against this demographic indentation, and these are two measures that the Greek Government has so far not put on or seems to intend to do so. Then you bring this here today and come in because we want to present you with proposals. Look, I understand that you can consider yourself a "new" advisor, between quotes, but man! You have people in your council who know that if you want to come up with proposals to you, this plan is presented in a committee, you open up a deadline, the groups study, make proposals, debate, deal, remember or not, this is the theme. You will not come here to make this appearance today, I insist, to occupy the coupon, because others do not want to come and Mr Feijóo does not want to come to explain the evil that employment policies are going to be in the autonomous community, and then leave here saying that you have already dialogue with Parliament and you have already transferred the plan. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You say that the budget has increased in that general direction since you ruled, that it has doubled. But what's the point of doubling the budget in the Directorate-General for the Family if you took it from social policy, since Mr Feijóo's rule, EUR 4 billion, Counsellor? Family policies are transversal! And what the Education Council does, the Housing Council, the Health Council, and its counsellor has an impact on families, impacts on the purchasing power of families and impacts on the problems that families have. So what's the point of increasing the budget of a general management of a council, if you don't bet on social policy as a whole? You're not betting on a policy that gives people rights, but what they do is -- I insist -- gratifying measures. Or have they agreed now, in the last year of legislation, on the eve of the autonomous elections, to make a plan for the family? In seven years they didn't have time? In the election year, really? Look, you said one thing that surprised me – I asked my colleagues to misunderstand – that we have a positive migration balance. Counsellor, in the last known years, 2013 and 2014, negative balance. In any case, look, in 2009, when Mr. Feijóo arrived at the Government, we were in Galicia 2,796,000 people; and in 2015 closed we are 2,732,000, 64,000 less, tell them as you like. That's what IGE and INE say. I don't know what's the source of their statistics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u159	I'd hope you could give it to me. Look, when you come here, to this Parliament, and say it comes when we ask for it... it's your duty! You can't refuse to come to interrogations, you know? What you have not yet done, nor any member of Mr. Feijóo's government, was to appear at the request of the opposition. They've never, ever since they've been in government, come up for opposition, you know? Mr. President has repeatedly denied...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u160	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u161	...from which he is president, to come to speak of the true drama of the Greek families, Counsellor, who is unemployment, precarious work, poverty, emigration of young people and the loss of rights with the governments of the People's Party. That's the balance of your family policies.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u162	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, it's amazing, I even envy you because you always have an excuse for everything. If the Social Policy Adviser comes, it should not be you who had to be here, but the President of the Galician Council, who is the one you asked to attend at the Council of Spokespersons. If in his first speech they criticize the counsellor's appearance, in his second speech they seem to want to change their position, and they justify that you don't make proposals because you have to do it through the corresponding articles of the Rules of Procedure. [[Murmurs.]] So the Union must bring the plan to Parliament and, in committee, debate it. Perfect! But it is only when the Galician Union – and you know it, Mrs Gallego, perfectly – sent Parliament the demographic dynamisation plan by the article of the regulation you cited, that they also left the committee. They always have an excuse. It turns out they didn't want it to be dealt with in Commission 5th, they wanted it to be processed in another committee. In the end, you always have an excuse not to present your proposals. And look, just one clarification, Mrs. Churches. The councilman didn't get rid of the Ferrol Town Hall. That we have news, he was the most voted candidate in the municipal elections in the Council of Ferrol. You recycle your information because you might think a gentleman who currently occupies the mayorate of Ferrol was because most of Ferrol's citizens voted for it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Maybe you're wrong and you have to review your information. [[Applause]] On the other hand, it has been mentioned here that the management of the Risga, that if the municipalities... here are Members and Members who have been in the county for many years and should know how social services work. There are Members and Members who cannot come to this Parliament saying that when you get to the social services they give you a list of all the documentation you have to collect. It's not like that! You arrive at the social services... and we discuss it with your partner, Mrs Solla, on an initiative you presented to the 5th Commission. You know there's an agreement between different administrations where you make the documentation that people need to process Risk, and you know it. All documentation that can be processed is requested. [[Murmurs.]] So you also recycle the social services of the municipalities because it's fundamental, because it's the first entry door of the citizens. It would therefore be convenient for you to recycle your information. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, when we talk about the draft of the Welsh Family Policy Plan, I'd like to say that those six areas of action of this plan demonstrate a commitment by the Galician Council to family policies. We are talking about coexistence, education, conciliation, health, housing, leisure and sport. And besides something that has been criticized here: the design, execution and follow-up of this plan is presided over by the freedom of organization of family life and coexistence, something that is already collected also in the law itself; equality between men and women, both in the labour force and in the staff and family, and attention to the needs of families and their members, paying particular attention to the situation of special difficulty or vulnerability. I think you'll agree with us on this. And we have to emphasize that there are more resources -- 97.2 million -- 40% more than last year -- 50% more than in 2009. And it turns out that when there's resources on the table, when there's budgets for families, now they tell us that it's no use because, even if we have budgets, we don't bet on family policies. You always have an excuse for everything! to criticize the policies of the Galician Union and not to present proposals on certain matters. And look, we consider that families, children, children, coexistence units, older people, people with disabilities, older people... all people who are part of the family unit need seriousness; seriousness of the Galician Union, but also seriousness of opposition groups. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close shift of this appearance. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u165	Thank you very much. The truth is that I have to insist on what I said earlier, I have to insist that they have two very important documents in this House: the Greek Family Policy Plan 2016-2020 and the Strategic Plan of Galicia, also on the horizon of 2020, which I think they have many proposals. Many proposals that are not exclusively political, many proposals that are collected from our civil society, many proposals that are collected from technicians working in the family, in the field of demographic dynamization, both in Galicia and elsewhere where we have very important examples. The truth is, it seems like that, now that we have the Social Policy Council, it bothers us to talk about social policies. Now that we have Social Policy Council, we need to talk about other advisors when the Social Policy Adviser comes. We have to talk about the budgets of other advisors because they should begin to assume that this Government has prioritized social policies and that is why it is budgeted for social policies, and I hope that next year's goal is even more than this year's goal for social policies and also family support policies, which are a fundamental part of social policies for us. Because, indeed, the crisis was very hard, of course, and the crisis left many people at risk and in situations of social exclusion. But the crisis has also come to many families, to many middle classes, which deserve an effort from the Administration to give them a new sense, which have some public accounts that have more resources than before. That's why we are proud to work on family politics, proud of traditional family policies, and also of the different types of family, Mrs. Adam, because the different family models are absolutely respected by the Government that I represent here today. [[Murmurs.]] So I'm telling you, Mrs. Adam, these two documents that seem very important to us: the Welsh Family Policy Plan and the Strategic Plan. The headline? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, the headline tells you that, I could tell you, the headline was that I was expecting a moderate dialogue around Galicia's major challenges by the year 2020 and eventually everything remains in the debates in this Parliament. Mr. Fajardo, the children's schools in industrial polygons are not to favor large businesses, it's because they are places with a lot of crowded people who work, and therefore they need a means of reconciliation. Really, no interest in favor of you. Mrs. Gallego, I appreciate your contributions. Actually, I don't know why they didn't show up before, what it was... we're always in time to come to an agreement. I believe that, indeed, the Greeks and the Greeks will always greet that we are able to reach agreements with our differences. I wish we could tell you that social issues are more the coincidences than the differences, because above the parties, really, I think people are. That's why, Mrs. Churches, I have dedicated my last words to you, because above the parties are people. The truth is, I don't feel challenged from the Ferrol Town Hall, on the contrary. Look, there's a big difference between you and me. You never headed an electoral list and you don't know... – that I know, I may be wrong –...the satisfaction that it means for a person who dedicates to political activity who twice led an electoral list in your city has had the greatest electoral backing they've ever given to anyone, nobody! [[Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Therefore, Mrs Iglesias, I want to tell you that this electoral support that I had twice before, that in forty years of democracy I had no one – also the second time – although by a few votes I did not reach most, but that was the highest electoral support, it was precisely because of that. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] That's why you don't speak with resentment. I get a lot of people from the People's Party, but also from other political parties, so I got that electoral backing twice that I ran into Ferrol. Look, with regard to the issue of social cuts – because I have nothing to be ashamed of, nothing, but you use the right data – when I arrived at the mayorate of Ferrol, there were fewer people working on social services than when I left the mayorate of Ferrol. You must correct that data which, I'm sure you misjudged, has given you some fellow organization. And look, what I aspire to as a social policy advisor is the one who works more people in the social departments of the municipalities and the board of Galicia when I leave the board that when I started in the council. And you'll see how we're gonna get it between us all. But really, Mrs Churches, if you had known a little bit what people are and had spoken a little bit to the social entities of Galicia, and had also spoken to the social entities of Ferrol, you would know what the reality is. Indeed, Mrs Iglesias, politics is not made up of carpet, it is made up of elections and gaining the majority confidence of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u166	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u167	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u168	Good afternoon again. The truth is it's going to end the legislation and they're still calling me José Manuel, I'm Juan Manuel. I don't care, but it wouldn't be bad that, before the legislation is over, once and for all if I was calling for my name. Although it's true that when they call me Juan Manuel, it's to re-breath me, so surely the President of the House does not do so. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] You're sorry. If it was me, we'd see. [[Laughter]] Well, we're going to talk about a very important, transcendent issue – I would say – to the country, which has shown that civil society in this country when it is organized, when it defends its interests, is able to do those things that are denied to it. And in this country, the Government made the decision to put an aquaculture law on the table that was – let us say – a robbery to our sectors and the definitive conversion of our sea sector. So the other day, we had a memorable intervention by the spokesperson for the People's Party, and one thing was demonstrated: I don't know if the People's Party can get away from the car, but from the demonstrations. It is known that the mass demonstrations will prove to the People's Party that you are wrong, that you cannot legislate against the majority of society, that you cannot legislate against a sector that has sufficient capacity to self-organize, but also to give economic capacity to this country, and that you are being attacked by a rule that was supposed to end the sector, but also a very important part of the literal economy of this country. Despite the announcement of the withdrawal of the Aquaculture Law, I would like the spokesperson for the People's Party here today to explain the words of Feijóo this morning, where that withdrawal was a little bit dulled and insisted again on that idea that when the sector understood it. I'd like you to explain how you might have even lied to citizenship, because the spokesperson for the People's Party in this matter and Mr Feijó said you couldn't remove what didn't exist. So what did they do today? It was a lie what they said. If there were administrative proceedings initiated and, therefore, it was a law that existed, a preliminary draft that existed, that was publicly exposed and therefore had already started, and you denied the largest one. Moreover, just fifteen days ago in this same gallery, the councillor defended the arguments that were proved false, because they had to retreat from the inability to prove that what they said was true, because it wasn't true what they said. Because that rule ultimately meant giving our sea sector to all private companies interested in exploiting it. But we do not want him to hide in a drawer, we want him to disappear from the political initiative that rule and that the sector itself determines those things that the sea sector needs. That's why we warn you that we're going to be monitoring and monitoring the actions of a government that you've shown that in these cases he does something to try to dismiss, and there will be better times to apply this rule. We say it because you've been trying to pass this rule since the time of López Veiga. But, of course, it would be very important, because those who demonstrate their inability to defend the majority interests in a sector cannot and should not continue in front of the council. When a counselor and his highest responsibility are answered in an absolutely brutal way by the whole sector they're defending, they have to leave. But you also have to leave the fishing spokesman. Because the fishing spokesman has shown here that he is attacking the whole sector on a continuous basis. And tell him a humble MP of AGE, to whom you don't respect and say he doesn't know anything about fishing. [[Murmurs.]] But even though you think I don't know anything about fishing, what I do know is that you have no consensus in the sector and that you therefore have to leave the fishing spokesperson at least in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] That's why we're going to ask the council and the government of this country to start taking seriously the problems that the sector has. And those problems are not opening the field to multinationals, the fundamental problems of the sector are those that come from politics driven by those who attack them. Policies, for example, to destroy our marine environment, to attack our ecosystems, to defend in Europe what attacks our sector, to be unable to defend the needs of quotas for our fleet, or to defend the needs that a part of our sector is covered by the European Union's aid. That's why I welcome them today to the right side of force. The right side of force was the one we were doing many to destroy this law that can't go forward. I welcome them, who understand once and for all that we cannot legislate against a social majority. That's why today we also have to recognize the work of those who have worked so that this can be a reality. A sector that had to be organized, which had to waste time on its work, which had to be kicked out of the country to show them with arguments that it wasn't the law that needed the whole sea. And so they are the ones who have demonstrated initiative, capacity, and they are the ones who must lead our sector. And that's why we have to move forward in the co-management of the sea sector, in giving the real protagonists the ability that they will decide as they will and how our sea should be exploited. And no more laws made by the aquaculture cluster. By the way, this self-installed in Andalusia, which does not seem to care too much about this reality. And they should explain why they put this stress on the sector, when two months ago they announced their paralysis to now announce their withdrawal. They had to have her removed at the time she found out that it was a fundamental mistake for the country's economy. That's why I hope you have no excuse today not to vote for the political initiative of this organization, which goes on the line that demands the sector. And for once I have to prove that it is social pressure, the pressure of the economic sectors of the sea, but also the political pressure of those that we defend the social majority, those that we were right and those who were able to defeat this law. But we insist: we'll keep waiting because we know how the People's Party spends them and we're very afraid they're waiting for some trick around the corner. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u169	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u170	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I welcome the withdrawal of this preliminary draft law, which, of course, is not made by itself, nor by the conviction of the Government itself, but by the social response that the preliminary draft had and which we are in an election year. I think if we weren't in the election year, this law would go on. The luck is that the People's Party wants to welcome her to see if she can continue to rule the next four years, and for the next legislate then she can indeed legislate it. We understand that it is a preliminary draft law which is a genuine environmental and economic attack on our country, just as is the stay of Ence in the Pontevedra River. The rapid progress of intensive aquaculture for highly commercially valued species has already caused environmental degradation in many countries, the displacement of many populations, peasants and local mariners, because it has prevented them from continuing their activity. The rapporteur, Mr Fajardo, said that Mr Feijóo said he would come back when society understood him. No, it is the Government who has to understand society, who has to understand why this law is harmful to society, why this law is harmful to Galicia. Aquaculture is harmful because it threatens the integrity of coastal ecosystems, as intensive breeders release huge amounts of organic waste, faecal materials and toxic water around it. Every farmer, for example, the Scottish salmon together, produces as many dissections as the 600,000 inhabitants of Edinburgh. Aquaculture does not diminish the pressure it exerts on fish that are free, but rather on the contrary, since these fish are fished and then constitute the feeding of captive fish, through flours and fish oils. Much of aquaculture consists of the fattening of carnivorous fish such as salmon or tuna. From a commercial point of view, of course, it's profitable: you buy cheap fish and then you sell more expensive breeding fish. The problem is that these fish that feed the fish of aquaculture are, for example, sardines, horses or anchors, which are part of food from the trophic chain and are also part of human food. In the end, this operation, therefore, uses much more fish meat than is produced; therefore, it shakes the sea. Today, about 20 percent of the world's catches are destined for the production of fish and flours to feed aquaculture fish. It also threatens people's aquaculture and food sovereignty, and, above all, in places so rich, of as high productive wealth as our rivers, seriously harming the production capacity of food generated by our ecosystems, and hinders the exercise of traditional fishing and seafood activities. It also privatizes public-dominated lands with the installation of public-dominated farming pools, hindering the development of traditional activities, not only economic, but social and cultural activities of the people. Privatisations of roads, privatizations of public areas that block the free movement and access of people to traditional public domain areas. Deep down in socio-environmental injustice, since the costs of this industry are transferred to society, environmental degradation, while a minority, indeed, these large businesses in the sector, are those that receive enormous benefits, without giving back anything to society. Besides, it threatens the health of workers and consumers. Sodium metasulfite, used by these companies as a preservative and as a chemical agent also to stabilize the colors of the fish, however, is considered a chemical agent of maximum health, but is used by this industry. So insert it or work with it is, of course, harmful to health. The same as the large amount of antibiotics that are used as prophylactics and therapeutics for the fish created in captivity. And both FAO and WHO, and the International Bureau of Epizootics make special reference to the risks metasulfite and antibiotics have for public health. Because, in addition, in the unintended consumption of antibiotics, it is impossible to measure the amount of bacteria take and cause resistance to many of these antibiotics, and today we have in real health problems of antibiotics-resistant bacteria, which are causing deaths due to diseases that were previously cured with antibiotics.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u172	Furthermore – and I am finished, Mr President – the danger posed by the species that escape from the breeding grounds, as they enter into direct competition with native species. We therefore believe that it is very right to maintain this motion and that we hope that the People's Party will vote in favour of it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u174	Good afternoon to all and to all. Zeca Afonso said: "The people are the most ordered," and so he has been expressing it in recent years on different fronts. That's how we see it. That's where we see him in the individual division of quotas, with that camp that lasted three months, with that camp also on the wheel. That's where we have it on demand that the Atlantic area also wants the quota of the mouthpiece, or the tax and quota taxes on artisanal fishing. And in the face of this demand from the people, from the sector, the president ordered to paralyze her, which did not withdraw her, and yet the people reacted and summoned the demonstration next Saturday. That demonstration that's pushing the whole sector, from the Lower Kings to the Ortegal. And now we see that in the face of this massive demonstration, which is the whole sector making a unanimous demand, which I had already stated here earlier, that this proposal for a preliminary draft of the law brought a true tsunami to which the whole sector, from the mexillaries to the shellfishers, to the siege or the trawlers, were able to internalize the problem as a whole, which was the same problem of a fisheries policy designed from Brussels whose purpose is to appropriate our resources and impose a new model on the service of capital. So we're facing a great deterrent work to try to disable the sector. So the sector is not going to go back because it becomes clear once again that the Counsellor is no longer a valid interlocutor, it has been totally disauthorized and must do one last favor to the country, that this is no other than resigning and leaving home. But, of course, before you go home, you take and take with you the Director General, former Secretary General of Fisheries and now General Director of Aquaculture. Because we are facing a country problem, in the face of a problem of great silence, which is rooted and which is not solved for anything saying that it will commit itself to the withdrawal of this preliminary draft, because the root is perfectly signed. There's no more to this year's budgets: nothing more and nothing less than 18 million euros that they've committed to fulfilling their commitment to this intensive aquaculture. A clear bet on productive investments in aquaculture, the promotion of new businesses, the counselling of aquaculture farms, the reduction of contaminant and chemical water, or the insurance of aquaculture populations. And this is just the answer to the policy coming out of the European Union. There is no need to take a look at Regulation 502/2014, which was approved after the renewal of the PPC, from which the future of intensive aquaculture is entirely clearly designed, with help for companies with investments greater than €50,000 in aquaculture, to reduce the dependence of flour and fish oil; even aid for mapping the most suitable areas to develop aquaculture. We are therefore faced with a design of the European Union with which the Government of the Galician Union is strictly committed, and is prepared to carry it out. This is just a tall one on the way. So we must continue to push, we must continue to encourage the sector to continue to increase that wave which will have to get us to the next Saturday 27 in Compostela, in the Oberdoiro, there are a lot of people claiming at last this fishing model imposed by the European Union, which puts us on the loss of activity and, above all, to destroy our productive model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u175	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u176	...that generates wealth and, fundamentally, generates a lot of work. A model that we urgently need to cope with in order to survive, but this country would no longer be such if we gave up our traditional sustainable fishing model, as it is being developed so far. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u177	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u178	Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we knew, though untrustworthy, the announcement of the final withdrawal of the draft aquaculture law. But just fifteen days ago two important representatives of the People's Party came out of this chamber with the feeling of duty, with the sensation of impeccably remembering and playing a scene from the famous film Men in Black, where Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones were able to erase with a flash of light the memory of humans. In this case the flash of light took place with the already famous phrase of Mr. Balsairo: of the fools and the cars, and ended with the magnificent interpretation of the Counselor's Lady speaking of positive aspects which in no way collected this preliminary draft of law, referred to at that time as draft, despite having passed through the Council of the Council of Galicia and even having already carried out the public exhibition procedure. All this so that nothing of the event will remain in the memory of the sector. But nothing further from reality. The representatives of the sector came out with a very different sensation, closer to the deception and hair-grabbing, because they are aware that behind the long process of drafting this already withdrawn draft of the law, always drafted from the back of the affected, which was a text with a marked speculator character. And I'm saying this because although they were now trying to say otherwise, in 2012 the advisor Quintana was marking the course when she said high and clear to those who wanted to hear that integrated multitrophic aquaculture would be the model of the future and the most appropriate formula for taking advantage of and optimizing space. Because that's exactly what we were talking about, the occupation of space to produce. A perfectly defined strategy by the People's Party, which I wanted with this preliminary draft was to change a root model. A model that, in the words of the Director General of Fisheries, Juan Maneiro, "is ineffective and precarious because it uses a lot of labor, but produces little profitability." And I wanted to change it just by another much less intensive model in the workforce, but with higher levels of profitability. That's right, for the proponents of aquatic initiatives, not for the community. In the PSdeG we always defend the current model. It's true that you can improve things by working in the organization, promoting, marketing. But it's no less certain that this model has led Galicia to become a global reference to the production of mussels and also to have a quality mark of its own in the products of bass and seafood. And we also defend it because it has already been said here that it has contributed decisively to the economic and social development of the coastal villages of this country, with a distribution of quite horizontal wealth and giving work to thousands of people. The model proposed by the People's Party was undoubtedly the anticipation of all this. He intended to accumulate production zones in just a few, leaving the way open for anyone to enter the struggle for the occupation of space. It is true that the text marked as a priority that groups and groups in the sector would have priority in order to become aquatic activity, offering as a candy the possibility of access to European funds, but, like not, entering into the battle of competition with large companies in the aquaculture sector, where the criteria of profitability, efficiency and economic capacity would be the variables that the Administration would take into account in order to grant or suspend an administrative concession. And so the door was open. I think everyone we're here knows it's roundly false that you can't develop aquatic activity without a law like the PP wanted to pass, because I wonder if this country hasn't been carrying out aquaculture activity since the last fifty years. But what is not false is what this draft law was going to assume: the increase in costs would probably cause many of the producers to leave the sector because of the increase in costs that would mean aquaculture with administrative concession. And those who do not take that step would surely be drowned by other ways such as the inability to access European aid. And this was the strategy of the People's Party, a clearly defined strategy that sought to change the root model. Look, Mr. Balsairo, all his arguments have fallen along the way. First, it was simply a semantic debate between paralysis and withdrawal, then it seems that you were defending that you could not withdraw because it was a draft, and so far, in which Mrs. Quintana announced the paralysis. I'm not going to ask you to resign, but what I am going to do is tell you that Mrs. Quintana what you had to do was take advantage of this draft law to leave with him. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u179	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I see you too worried, I see you worried because -- I said in my land -- "I shot you in the ass." And I'm saying it came out because I also thought that today... Man, coming to whoever's motion, I'm not too surprised either. [[Laughter]] But I thought today I was going to remove Mr. Fajardo... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u181	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u182	...this motion for two reasons: First of all, because I believe that the Counsellor in the past has dismantled the bundle of lies that you and your companion, Mr. Rodas, disguised as aquaculture experts, with those meetings that made politicians' political policies, because they disassembled it. And secondly, because they must be the only ones who still at 7:30 p.m. have not learned that there is no longer this draft draft draft draft draft of the aquaculture law. You must be the only ones. And the majority group of this House in front of this could do two things. He might not listen too much and not vote in favour of them. But look where, so that you stay calm, but above all, not you, because you stay nervous, so that the sector stay calm, the majority group of this camera is going to vote for this motion. [[Applause]] No, no, if there's nothing else to see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u183	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u184	There's nothing more to see than what you ride, the representatives of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, with a theme that seems to care about you. That's why you're paying so much attention to him. That's why you're doing what you shouldn't at least do about the sector, and about some German citizens who are in the gallery of this Parliament. I don't tell the majority group anymore, because I know they don't. But look at you, I know I've seen you worried, because you're no longer worried about this draft draft draft of the aquaculture law. You worry - and so Mr. Rhodes said - about the demonstration next Saturday. You want to go to the demonstration and you don't want to go alone, you don't want to go alone. And now they are in danger of having to go alone to that demonstration, as many have already been, because it's true that you in the demonstrations are not too successful. [[Applause]] But yes, the majority group of this chamber congratulates the Government of Galicia and congratulates the Fisheries Adviser. And you know why? Because the government did what he said. The Government has said several times in parliamentary headquarters that it would not legislate anything without the consensus of the sector. That consensus could not be reached and that draft was withdrawn without any problems, without any problems! You know you don't ask for that, you ask for one thing, now you want another. You would like, now that you've learned this movement of political meetings, disguised as aquaculture experts, because you're going around, you're still doing that kind of meeting, which I don't think you've been too successful either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look at one thing, look at the difference. I agree with Mr. Rhodes who said, "The people are the ones who order." We actually did not agree with that. See if the people are ordered, that their group in the past legislation had twice as many Members as you have at the moment. And see if the people are ordered, which the People's Party put here as a majority group of the House and you put them there. But you know why that was? Do you know what happened to the aquaculture plan that Bipartite made? So let's just say that... I don't know if they're constantly... do you know how many allegations the Bipartite's aquaculture plan has made? More than a thousand allegations. Do you know how many allegations this Aquaculture Plan has had? Little more than 80 allegations. For which you, you, you, you......are not in a position to teach in aquaculture. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because you're the only one they did when they had the opportunity to rule in Galicia was to drive the companies out of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u186	The only thing they did. You took a government where Galicia was the world leader in aquaculture, and when they left it, they logically lost that leadership. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u187	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u188	That's why you're not for a lot of lessons. Congratulations to the Government of Galicia for listening to the mayors of the People's Party, for listening to the advisers of the People's Party, and above all for listening to the sector. And once that consensus has not been reached, the Government and this spokesperson have spoken in the rostrum of this Parliament to withdraw this preliminary draft. That's why the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u189	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u190	...and the Counsellor, who has done so much, and the Director General, who has done so much, the only thing he has done is comply with what he has said. You're the only one who's been telling lies by the Greek ports...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u191	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u192	...and all they did was go uninformed the sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Author of the motion group, Mr Fajardo. [[Pause.]] Give a voice to Mr. Fajardo's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u194	After this spectacular intervention by the PP spokesman in fishing, I don't know very well what to say, because, of course, that argument that we were shot in the ass, because it seems that the councillor had already proposed to present a draft, wait for the sector to be revealed, deny that it was to be removed, that a demonstration would be massed, and then withdraw it. The truth is that strategy is at least complex to understand. So, congratulations to those who thought about that strategy. [[Laughter]] But I don't think I wanted it in my party, and look at it in my party because we do very rare things sometimes. [[Laughter]] The next question to me, sir, is that I am now concerned about whether or not I can go to the demonstration. It's not the first one I'm going to go to the last one, unfortunately to me and to the whole set of citizenship. And if I'm afraid to be alone with Mr. Rhodes. Home! She said she wanted to go to the demonstration tomorrow. You also tell the counselor what that is, whether you're afraid to be alone, or not, or what the matter is. And then I'm not much of using Mr. Balsairo's remarks because it's a kind of reverse psychology that I don't control very well, it's complex. But when you talk about majority groups and where they are and where they are, and when there are votes in the middle, and what you're going to do with majority groups, you have to be careful about spitting up, because you're gathering some choices where things like this are going to put the PP where you deserve, which is in the opposition. By the way, with votes, because they themselves are dealing with having the absolute majority in the prisons of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u195	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the precariousness of the labour market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u196	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u197	Good afternoon to all and to all. And I also want to greet the representatives of the company Pellejero, who had Sogama's urban waste transport contract. In the past full, the Galego Nationalist Block questioned the Government here about the measures it had planned to combat labour poverty, and we did so because labour poverty is becoming a great scourge. And the counselor's answer is that we will discuss raw and fast on the path of recovery, with employment creation measures 4.0, inserted in economic measures 4.0 as well. Despite the fact that the People's Party and its Government want to deny reality, labour poverty and inequality exist and are the two sides of the same problem: wage deterioration that affects the least-earned. A deterioration that causes the pay gap to increase more and more; to increase between the most expensive and the least expensive, so that in recent years high wages have increased by 24% and the lowest have fallen further by 10%. And a pay gap also between men and women. We German workers perceive 23.4% less than men simply being women, and what's even more bloody: 11.6% less than the size of women in the Spanish state. This means that the Greek women have to work nine more years if we want to earn the maximum pension, i.e., eighty-five more days a year, almost three more months a year. This is one of the tremendous working realities we have in our country. And the reality is that Gallica diverges, it doesn't converge with the state or the European Union, neither in wages, nor in pensions, nor in hours worked. In recent years, this situation has only made it worse: loss of purchasing power, one after another; wage earners who are in the last wage line under the EUR 400 are not only poorer, but are increasingly poorer; in recent years they have lost one out of every four euros of their wages; the group of low-wage workers have paid part-time. Well, this is a small sample of the situation that in the interpellation of the previous full described in detail. And ending this situation of continuous deterioration of labour and wage conditions, of chronication of labour poverty, must be a priority. And that priority has to start with the repeal of legislative measures, the labour reforms that allow that work situation. So today, the Galician Nationalist Block, we present a motion that has three parts of resolution: The first is that the Galician Parliament – this Parliament – urges the Central Government to demand the derogation from the decrees that allowed this labour situation, especially all that regulation that has become a perverse instrument to devalue wages and labour situations. These different labour measures and reforms that have only been made to prejudge employment, make part-time contracts the norm, and that are less and less indefinite jobs and more time-consuming. That's why we asked for that question. We also call on our initiative "to carry out all the necessary actions so that the priority objective of the Labour Inspectorate is to detect and denounce labour exploitation." The Labour Inspectorate, although the People's Party has voted against here several times that it is transferred to the Greek Government in order to be more effective, must prioritize the fight against labour exploitation. Monitoring and compliance with working hours, overtime, wages, safety and hygiene conditions must be one of the priorities. And also in the appeal to the counsellor in the previous plenary, I would inform you, in case it wasn't your knowledge, of a situation of a particular company in our country, which is like I told the company Pellejero, who was in charge of transporting urban waste to Sogama, who was in a situation of possible loss of work for the 69 people who did work in the same. We used the advisor to sit with them and listen to their situation, because it's one of those situations we were talking about in the interrogation -- one of those situations that a company with more or less stable working conditions, with more or less decent wages, were able to lose these working conditions and even lose their jobs. The counsellor gave the silent answer and did not even refer to it. So today we bring here within the initiative that we present a resolution, in which we call for the opening of a dialogue table, in which representatives of the Union, Copasa, are present, which is the new urban waste dealership in Sogama, and the workers of the former concessionaire company, with the objective that none of the 68 workers remain on the street and that wage and labor conditions are maintained at least. We bring this initiative here because it is not justifiable that a public company, and Sogama is a public company, take out the tender a new contract for the transport of urban waste without taking into account the conditions of the workers and workers who provided that service, who did not take them into account, who did not call them, who did not listen to them, and who did not enter the envelopes for that contract, no condition to safeguard neither the jobs nor their working and salary conditions. Well, it's not... I could choose not to put anything, but on the contrary, what he did was that he expressly stated that the new company will have no responsibility for the current template. The truth is that the Galician Nationalist Block seems tremendous to us that a public company not only does not care about the labor situation of its workers, but rather dares to put a question like this in its pockets. It's tremendous that in the 130 sheets of the envelopes there was no room to talk about the labor situation of workers and workers. It seems indecent to us that a public enterprise conducts energetically labor practices that allow precariousness and poverty. Because the situation of these workers is that by not including in the labour market conditions or subrogation or no conditions for these workers, the new company, in principle, had no reason to take care of them. It is true that the pressure and mobilization of workers and workers, the multiple accessions and the support received are making the situation not as serious at the moment as we have shown in the previous plenary session. But recognizing that there is progress, the situation, of course, is not much less than enough. We believe that this Parliament must urge the Government of Greece to believe it, to call that work table, that it is present, that the president of Sogama does not mutate through the forum as he has done so far and to deal with the successive contracts he makes Sogama workers maintain at least – i.e., the normal thing would be to improve their working conditions – but at least to maintain the working and wage conditions they had so far. And right now – as I say – the conditions have improved, but not enough, because right now there is a theoretical offer to maintain an important part of the jobs, but, in principle, there are still 14 people who are going to stay out, that there is a loss of working rights, such as antiquity, as are supplements for Sundays, holidays and availability, who can assume a salary cut of between 500 and 600 euros as far as the workers and workers have been paid so far. I mean, for the same job, it's supposed to cover between 500 and 600 euros less. In a public-sector company with public money, you can't afford to have these kinds of issues...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u198	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u199	...to hire a company where the jobs of men and women in our country are precarious. There are responsible for this situation: Join and Sogama, because it is responsible for the situation of defence and deprotection in which the workers are in, because right now – as I said before – Sogama, with her head president, is not sitting in dialogue and mediating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u200	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u201	... –I am finished, President – for this situation to be resolved. With which I look forward to the support of the House's groups for the three parties to this proposal, but in particular with regard to solving the labour problem of Sogama's subcontract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u203	Thank you, President. When we debate with the welfare advisor, we conclude that the impoverishment of the working population is not, as they want to sell us, a natural consequence of the financial crisis, nor is it solved by family policies. It responds to a clearly neoliberal intent from the political authorities of the People's Party. The perverse combination of working precariousness with part-time contracts, wage devaluation, growing inequality and cuts in public policies bring back the figure of the poor worker, who belongs to the society of previous centuries. Ten years ago, before the crisis, having a job was practically incompatible with the poverty situation, which is defined as working poverty, the situation of people living in homes whose incomes are below 60% of the average of the population of the Greek homes, being the lack of employment and the precariousness of the coordinates of the map of this way of poverty, which specifically punish women, young people and workers who have little seniority at work. According to the latest EPA survey, 75% of the workers who are in a job poverty situation are women, and the OECD report leads us to the list of countries whose young people will involuntarily accept part-time jobs; and not only that, it turns out they accept any job, as if our girls and boys were encouraged to procreate to reverse the demographic pyramid. The perverse reform of the labour market is the origin and generation of part-time and temporary contracts. For example, from the contracts entered into in September 2015, 93.04 are temporary, and 148.000 in part-time, which results in a figure of some 70,000 workers on account of which they cover an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros, which translates into 351 euros per month. A population sector that, according to Caritas, accounts for half, or less, the users of the charity eaters. This situation of poverty and precarious work tends to be overcome if the policies and legislation that make it possible do not change. That is why I shall vote in favour of the first point of this motion tabled by the BNG. With regard to the situation of the workers of the company Transport Pellejero e Sonjos, these workers are at risk of losing or seeing their employment precariously since this company ceased to be the dealership of the transport of urban waste from Sogama and assisted a UTE, with Copasa and Renfe, who will now be the one who decides to hire or not these workers, by literally including them in the envelopes – and I quote textually, as did Mrs Prado earlier –: the new company would have no responsibility for the current template. And what turns out to be very suspicious again is that the new contract is the second highest of the defendants in this second legislation of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. And another fact that is suspicious: the highest responsibility for the demand for competitive conditions – as I have already said, I did not consider the subrogation of jobs – is then Sogama president Luis Lamas, executive of the People's Party of Lugo, and who had to resign after knowing that the Lugo Food Technology Center, of what he was a treasurer, had awarded a contract to a lawyer's office of what he was a partner. Usual practices of the People's Party, leading him to the situation he's in today's...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u204	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u205	...in Valencia, Madrid and many more places. And this is a new way, a new way to take advantage of the provision of a public service to hamper and precarious employment. So you're going to count this whole motion with my vote. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u206	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr Fajardo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Glaga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u207	Good afternoon again. Our group will support the motion presented by the Galego Nationalist Block, because the requests made are absolutely reasonable, necessary, and they put on the table the reality of the rulers we have in this country. With regard to Sogama's contract with Copasa and Renfe, which leaves out a number of very important workers, the first thing to say is that in this same forum, one talked about the corporate social responsibility of the Board, his intention to improve the precarious situation of the workers, but, instead, when they have the opportunity at a job of conditions to grant this contract, the first thing they do is to contemplate the reduction that applies directly to the wages of the new workers. But not only that, they are not able to introduce such a simple clause, which should be compulsory by law, as has already been proposed in this House by this group and others in the House, that the subrogation is compulsory. The workers of a contract, who, when they lose the contract by the adjudicate firm, are not required to maintain their jobs, cannot be subjected to such arbitrariness. We think it's an absolute barbarity. But, above all, when it comes to austerity and receiving money in public contracts, what is behind it is to reduce wage conditions, because 1.6 million euros save Sogama with this contract. And the whole saving goes directly to wages, to payrolls of these workers of the previous company, from Pellejero, with wage reductions of between 500 and 600 euros each month, which is an absolute barbarity, which means that in many cases they will not be able to maintain their families with a minimum of dignity. And we're talking about it's not any job. If the most dangerous job in this country today is the transport of goods by road, it turns out that in the conditions where Sogama's transport is done it's more, because we all know that the transport of that garbage from the packaging machines means that you carry a very important load, with a weight you don't know how it is distributed, and therefore has a higher risk than other transport. And in spite of that, not only is this risk not compensated, not only are workers given decent conditions, but they don't even respect the slightest dignity that a self-contracted company worker must have guaranteed his subrogation. Therefore, we support the proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block. You can't agree that the new company hires previous workers with wages below what they paid before and under much worse working conditions than the previous ones. It seems to us a real barbarity, and that can't be accepted if we have a Union, I say no longer worthy, I say normal, which is not so. The other question raised in the motion has to do with the control of fraud in part-time contracts. And in this country it's fashionable something that is a real barbarity. From the labour reform of the People's Party, part-time contracts that hide fraud are exponentially increased. And fraud is done by two ways: a contract where a fair weekly day is signed, but without determining when that work day is done, so that when the Inspection arrives, one cannot control whether that worker is exceeding his or her day or not. Or else, with a part-time contract, which says that the day and schedule will be determined according to the interests and needs of the company; therefore, no way to counter, when the inspector arrives at the job, that that worker is on his legal work day. And behind this there are two frauds: the first fraud of the worker, who works longer hours than he's in his contract receiving less pay for it and in many cases receiving balances outside his payroll to compensate for that excess of work when this is done, but above all, also a fraud of Social Security, a Social Security who needs income, which assumes the need for income in order to maintain our welfare state, our pensions, our benefits. For the People's Party is complicit in this situation, because it knows it, and has legislated that this could be given, so that for the first time in this country it is working more hours than it is charged; the normal thing in this country is to work more hours than legally charged. So there are two obvious issues: the precariousness of our labour market and the impoverishment of our workers. How else is it understood that 1 out of every 3 Galician workers covers less than the minimum wage, 1 out of every 3 Galician workers, less than 600 euros a month? It's absolutely unworthy, but it's not the result of chance, it's not a biblical plague, it's the political decisions of the People's Party, which the only one looking for with the crisis was the perfect excuse for precaution of our labour markets, for reducing working conditions and ultimately having an army of slaves serving capitalist companies, such as this subcontract that aims to reduce the wages of workers of a company as important and necessary for this country as road transport. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u208	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the Socialist Group will support this motion in every way. Of course, we agree with the derogation from the 2012 labour reform, but not only, but also in the Socialist Party's proposal for a government, that the precarious working reality in jobs and unemployment needs another series of reforms, such as the abolition of the absolute priority of the company agreement, the maintenance of the other activity, the substantial modification of working conditions, which are eliminated in a series of procedures which are not the case, the revision of the Staff Regulations of Workers, etc., etc. In fact, at this time, although it is not too late, we need to speak again about the employment situation in Galicia, the very precarious employment situation, data from the labour survey of the active population that reflect that Galicia has a really regrettable behaviour with regard to employment. 20 percent of the total workers in Greece suffer from work poverty; this is a reality. Unemployment in Galicia grows more than in the rest of the state, membership of social security evolves worse in Galicia than on the state average, and well, the only data – between quotes – "positive" is that those much higher incomes are the ones that rise, which is certainly not a positive fact, is a reality that confronts us with a terrible economic situation, in which we now see as a demographic plan that really, from the political perspective gives a lot of shame, but from the perspective of woman I, when I heard the counselor encourage us to make children, well, the question is, how do these children grow up? That's the reality Galicia has with regard to the labour market. Another of the points of the motion, the priority objective of the Labour Inspectorate. Of course, of course it has to be a priority objective, because we all know how to sign contracts for a few hours and then other jobs, as if they are giving away hours to businesses, how in many cases extraordinary hours are not paid, how many and many lamentable aspects are happening in our businesses, and, without doubt, the work of any official, I believe that the Labour Inspectorate has to act much more forcefully in these aspects. With regard to the third point, well, since it was the theme of Tragsa we talked about that it's not much to understand. When a public administration participates in a society like Sogama and is not part of a negotiating table, it is absolutely different from what can happen to workers; we don't understand it in any way. We understand that there are a number of conversations, but, of course, the Galician Government, the Galician Union must be an important actor in this respect, so that these workers, in human conditions, in dignified conditions, in the same conditions as they were working, continue to work. It's something we want to make clear from the Socialist Party. So we are going to support this motion, and, well, we are not going to have any more impact on the situation of precarious employment in Galicia, on the situation of lack of employment, on the flight of our qualified young people, on an important demographic problem. But, coming back to the work of the workers of the Pellejero company, what we can't do is that those companies that are working, that those workers who are working without them and don't take care of them. So we believe that the Galician Union has to be an important part to keep these workers working under the same conditions, in conditions of dignity. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. The People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. I also want from my group to greet the workers of the Pellejero and Sons company. Well, first of all, Mrs Prado, because we are not in agreement with the decrees governing labour reform, nor are we in agreement with this subject, nor are we in agreement with its proposal, because in her speech it is obvious that the reality is a reality. All indicators that measure economic activity and employment in Galicia and the state are improving. In many cases Galician evolution is more positive than that recorded by the state as a whole. We must remember that, when the People's Party arrived at the Government, it found itself with all these indicators in red and pitting, in red and pitting, and today they're all green and growing month by month. What you are asking us, ladies and gentlemen, is that we return to the labor model of the Socialist Party of Zapatero, supported by Mr Sánchez and supported by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Do you really want to repeat the policies that increased 3 million and a half the number of unemployed? The ones that led to the closure of 200,000 companies? Do you really want to go back to the destruction of 1,400 jobs a day? Not us, Your Honor, we don't want to see each other again about to fall into the abyss of the ransom. That's why we're not going to vote in favour of this point first. We support the policies and reforms put in place by the People's Party and make it possible to create 1,500 jobs today. You destroyed 1,400 jobs a day; with us you created 1,500 jobs a day. Today in Galicia the economy grows at a rate of 2.6 %. Today in Galicia the industrial production index rose by 4.1 %, chaining up eight months of consecutive increases; in March 2009 Galicia's IPI fell by 12.6% and decreased for months consecutively. Today in Galicia the sales of the trade by the kid, one point above the state, being the fourth autonomous community of greater growth and chaining sixteen consecutive months up. Today in Galicia, consumers' confidence rises, business confidence rises. And, ladies and gentlemen, if you get sales of trade, consumer confidence and business trust, it's clear that the description you're making is not correct. But it's about exports, unemployment, social security membership, and taxes. Galicia closed in 2015 with 41,100 unemployed less than a year ago, which means a 15.6% drop, three points better than the average in Spain. We also have a three-point unemployment rate below that of the state. The increase in memberships to Social Security is the best reflection of job creation; and the year 2015 closed with about 20,000 memberships more than the previous year, and we follow that trend, with a growth of 2%, the largest inter-annual growth of a month of January since 2008. This increase in membership of Social Security is accompanied by an improvement in the quality of employment, both in terms of income due to contributions and in terms of indefinite recruitment, with two years of consecutive growth, as well as the nature of the working day, increasing contracts to full monthly to a greater extent than those of the part-day. In 2015 the weight of full-day contracts was 60 %, compared to 36 % of the part-day. The full-day people chain three consecutive trimesters of inter-annual ascents; we are the second community with the lowest rate of bias in Spain. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that your speech is not correct and your policies are not right, so we will not vote in favour of this point. As regards point 2, which calls for the detection and denunciation of labour exploitation, we shall vote in favour, since the Union has just promoted a new work inspection plan, focusing on the fight against job insecurity and the fight against irregular employment. And we are going to vote in favour of the third point, if we are accepted by points, of course. And a clarification on the issue of the workers of the company Pellejero, and it's that the nail of conditions has been published and it has been released and there has been no claim or comment on the content of it. I'm telling you because this has forgotten to apply it. We are also going to vote in favour of point 3, although we consider it to be an extemporaneous initiative, since the Galician Union has already promoted dialogue through the Galician Labour Relations Council, and negotiations seem to go in the right direction; in fact, the strike and the announced demonstrations are confused. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we would support point 2 and point 3 of the motion if the vote was accepted by points. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. You have the word for Mrs. Prado Colors' author group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u213	Well, to begin with, thank you for the support of the different groups for this initiative. And if we're going to accept the point vote, mainly because those Yupi worlds you just described, Mrs. People's Party, exist in your imagination, but they don't really exist. The reality is that these fantastic indicators that you want to put back as recovery, that path of recovery, that job 4.0, because the reality is that they have names and names, they have faces, right? And right now, here today, they have the face of 68 men and women, which turns out they haven't been aware that the German Government had been considering including the working conditions of the workers in nails. That is, if it turns out that these workers and workers don't get to claim, they don't get to mobilize to try to maintain working conditions and keep jobs – they don't get better – it turns out that their union – supported by their government – is allowed the luxury of not including anything related to the working conditions of the workers; that is, the luxury of putting them as a condition that the taxing company can have all the benefits at the expense of the workers' back, the cost of reducing their wages, the cost of firing men and women. Then, please, I'm glad you're rectified. And what we ask for in the initiative – which is an accurate transcription of what the workers and workers asked us to do – is an opening of the dialogue table where the Union is represented, the Union, directly, through Sogama, not the Galego Labour Relations Council, directly the leaders of the Union, the Government. So I want you to be aware that we are voting in favour of the board sitting at that table. For what? To ensure the maintenance of all jobs and wage conditions. Don't tell me here it's already done, it's not done. Sogama's president went to a few meetings and then he went dumb through the forum, he's not sitting with the workers and the workers and the company to guarantee these conditions. If you vote here today – which seems very good to us – in favour of this, it seems normal, because with public money you cannot pay the precariousness of the workers or that a company has profits or that it can assume the Board to make a contract with less cost when that lower cost is intended to charge them because the workers in their wages. With which – I insist – we will accept that vote by points, and if I had time – and we will bring more initiatives like this – because I would tell you what the real data of employment in our country, Mrs. Romero, that certainly does not look like that data that you have just referred to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We passed the last motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in the field of psychogeriatric care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u215	Two amendments will be tabled to this initiative: one from the People's Group and one from the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u216	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Acuña do Campo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, another fuller, without the health counsellor worthy of attending our request to explain what the government is going to do in connection with the nursing prescription decree. Once again, the Government of the Union is showing an absolute disrespect for this House, in addition to denoting an intolerable disregard for the serious problems that this decree may cause in the functioning of the public health system, too, ladies and gentlemen, in mental health. But today, before talking about the mental health of others, I'm going to ask the Bureau of Parliament to give me two minutes, two minutes to talk about my own, to try and recompose my own mental health. And I take this license, ladies and gentlemen, because some people from the People's Parliamentary Group, including Mr Feijóo, used this Chamber to judge me and condemn me. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, if I may... Mrs. Paula Prado used a whole shift... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u218	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u219	...in this hemicycle to talk about yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u220	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u221	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I'm going to say it louder so they can hear me very clearly and very well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Accepting credit, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a crime. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u222	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u223	What if it's a crime, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it's money laundering, drug trafficking, prevarication, rocket financing, illegal financing... [[Applause]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u224	On the question, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u225	...the compadre of the winners, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u227	Besides, swallowing isn't a crime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u228	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u229	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u230	Question, please. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u231	... Mrs. Paula Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u232	No, but this is already explained, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u233	I mean, the same treatment that the honourable Member of the People's Party had.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u234	Mrs. Hold on, please, to the question already on this subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u235	Mr. President, evaluating is not a crime, now that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has said it, nor was it before that court was handed down, as much as the prosecutor of Ourense had committed himself. By the way, the Attorney General's Office is curious about Ourense, who considers it a crime to swallow a credit and not to trade with the jobs of a public institution... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u236	Mrs. Custodian, on the matter. Mrs. Custodian, on the matter. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u237	Yes, yes, yes, they'll listen to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u238	Ladies and gentlemen, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u239	They'll listen to me. [[Applause]] Workplaces of a public institution...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u240	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u241	...to change sex.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u242	To the point. Mrs. Hold on, I'm gonna have to call her in order. Please, on the question, go to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u243	Curious morals, curious morals... that of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u244	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u245	He's angry to hear it and not to do it. Curious morale. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u246	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] On the question, Mrs. Acuña. That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u247	And also curious mental health... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u248	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u249	...of a president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u250	Mr. Losada, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u251	...of a deputation... yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u252	Quiet. [[Murmurs.]] Go to it, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u253	...which considers it normal to request that the investigation be delayed on their indecent and macho behavior for having an appointment at Eurodisney.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u254	To the point. I'll call you in order, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u255	Call me in order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u256	I'll call you in order for the first time. And go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u257	Mr. President, yes. And evaluating a credit is not a crime, even though Mr Feijóo is engaged...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u258	Mrs. Acuña, this issue is already, please, under discussion. I'm gonna have to call her in order for a second time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u259	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u260	And I'm gonna have to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u261	I asked for two minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u262	No, no, but it's six!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u263	...to talk about my mental health. No, I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u264	Look how long it takes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u265	I don't know, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u266	You have five minutes left and I beg you to go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u267	If you don't interrupt me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u268	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u269	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u270	Go to the point now, please. Tell me about psychogeria, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u271	A whole shift that we all see in this House...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u272	No, no, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u273	...and what's in the minutes of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u274	Ma'am, I'm calling you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u275	I'm just asking, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u276	Mrs. Hold on, I'll call you by order...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u277	...the same deal. I'm not going to shut up, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u278	I call it in order for a second time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u279	...I won't shut up, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u280	I call it in order a second time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u281	Call me as many times as you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u282	...and I warn you that I'm going to have to expel her if you don't repeat that situation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u283	If you want to make me a double martyr, you'll make me a double martyr.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u284	I call it in order for a second time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u285	Double.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u286	It means if I call her again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u287	Accepting a credit – I said – Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u288	...means expulsion, Mrs. Acuña. You don't force a situation. There's four minutes left. Tell me about psychogeria, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u289	Mr. President, saying that swallowing a claim is not a crime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u290	You've explained that, ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u291	...even if he's trying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u292	... please, you've explained it!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u293	... Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u294	Mrs. Acuña, you're forcing a situation in which I don't want to make a decision, but you're ordering me to make it. Either she talks about psychogeria or I have to kick her out. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u295	Mr President, I have requested the support of this presidency...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u296	But you've been here for five minutes, please, or six. He's got four left now. Off the psych!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u297	If they keep interrupting me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u298	No, no one interrupts her. I'm just interrupting her because I want her to talk about psychogeria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u299	All right, when it's over, when it's over...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u300	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u301	Yes, Mr President, I think this is something very important for this House and also for this Member. [[Murmurs.]] And I deserve – I insist – the same treatment that was given to a member of the People's Party in this House... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u302	Right, that's it. [[Murmurs.]] Now talk about psychogeria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u303	...of the same!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u304	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Protests.]] Quiet, please! [[Protests.]] Tell me about psychogeria, Mrs. Acuña. [[Protests.]] Quiet. [[Protests.]] Quiet, please! [[Protests.]] Quiet, please, gentlemen. [[Protests.]] Quiet. [[Protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to have to suspend the whole momentarily. I'll have... Mr. Gallego! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm going to have to suspend the plenary momentarily. [[Protests.]] [[Interruptions.]] Mrs. Acuña, on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u305	Mr. President, please... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u306	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u307	...to give me a minute, which I think I have everything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u308	I can't give it to him. Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Acuña, Mrs. Acuña, I'm going to have to take your word off. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u309	...right. Well, I'll stay here without talking to my witness, asking for justice with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u310	You've already spoken. You've already spoken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u311	...my witness of silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u312	He's already talked about what he had to talk about. And, therefore, now you're talking about psychogeria. I think it's coming, there's two minutes left. [[Madam Acuña do Campo begins her silence.]] Time is running, Mrs. Acuña. I think I should talk about psychogeria. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Mr. Losada, please. Mr. Losada, please. Quiet, please. [[Madam Acuña do Campo continues silent.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. Mr. Galician, be quiet, please. Silence! [[Madam Acuña do Campo continues silent.]] Quiet. No, no, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the debate is trendy, huh? Mr. Puy, the debate is me. Silence, silence, please! Silence! Mr. Losada, I call you by order. Quiet, please. Well, shut up. Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. [[Madam Acuña do Campo continues silent.]] Your time is up, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u313	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u314	The round of parliamentary groups shall take place. Mrs. Prado. Yes, from the scene. Give a voice to Mrs Prado's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u315	Every time in this House the Presidency is making a completely discretionary use of the issues on which we can speak or not speak here, and the Socialist Party's honourable Member has not been allowed to refer to an issue on which he was accused in this House and to be able to answer the accusation made in this House, I will not make use of my time. Just saying we support the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u317	...and use it to express rejection of the fact that since the presidency there is a completely discretionary use of the right of Members and Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u319	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I come here to talk about psychogeria, but it would take thirty seconds, not two minutes. I wanted to congratulate Mrs. Acuña on her new situation on the subject we were talking about. We would like – and I would like to personally – that Mrs Prado had been treated by opposition groups as you were treated by our group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Thirdly, we rejoice in the People's Parliamentary Group that today no one has been investigated in this House. And I'm going to the subject, president. I think, Mrs Acuña, that you on this subject did not study the lesson well and mixed in your intervention – and I am talking about the intervention of the intervention of the counsellor – Decree 389/94 with the 2006 Strategic Mental Health Plan, and the truth did so in a very particular way. You affirm at the first point of your motion that the decree envisages providing all the old health areas – understanding that the eleven health areas that were contemplated in the Galician Health Map – of psychogeria units, and that's not true. That decree does not quote for nothing the word "area". It's actually talking about specific units, but it's limited to saying that for the development of specific programs there may be the creation of mental health units for children, psychogeria, etc. With regard to the Strategic Mental Health Plan of the year 6, in point 18, it actually says that there will be specific outpatient programs in all health areas, including psychogeria. But then, by developing the plan itself, it says, the criterion initially set for specific outpatient care units is that there is at least one for each of the seven large areas. I think it's these seven large areas that correspond to the current EOXI and not the eleven that you were referring to. Of course, one of the priorities in the review of Plan 2014-2016 is health care for psychological disorders and drug addictions. This review includes in its objectives different actions to improve early diagnosis, care quality and prevention of complications of depression, which, along with dementia, are the two most common pathologies in our major population. The Sergas Strategy aims to develop psychogeria-assisted programs. And, of course, all experts and consensus stress that specific training is needed to address these pathologies, but that there is certainly no single model at national or international level for the mental health problems of this collective. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are only four autonomous communities, of the seventeen – among these four is Galicia – which have specific mental health care devices of older people. In the present seven EOXI there are thirty-eight mental health units and there is also psychogeriatric care in six out of seven. There's one in which there's not, which is Vigo's, that anyway at the Alvaro Cunqueiro Hospital there's a psychiatry unit and there's also, as added value, a geriatric unit. We very much appreciate from the Popular Parliamentary Group the counsellor's announcement in the appeal for the establishment of a psychogeriatric unit at the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital for the Vigo area, and we ask him to be as brief as possible, and of course, to provide all the resources, both human and material, as necessary. With regard to the third point of his motion, which speaks of the nursing mental health specialist, I suppose you will now be aware, Mrs Acuña, that last day 12 was ratified at a meeting with all the unions the text of the decree so that the status category of professional nurses is created, and if you committed, in front of the trade union organizations, to include these groups, the specialties of nursing, at the OP of 2017. And on point 4 we stated that all people with psychiatric diseases who had to become integrated into major centers after the closure of the psychiatric centers of the old asylums are being cared for by Sergas's optionals, either by psychogeria units or mental health units, as explained in detail by the counsellor in the past full. The Popular Parliamentary Group submits a replacement amendment to its initiative, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to complete the map of Galician psychogeria with the opening of the Vigo unit as soon as possible, committed to the appropriate allocation of human and material resources for its proper functioning, integrating as far as legal possibilities are concerned and in accordance with the union representation of mental health nurses" – and we refer to the agreement – "and to continue with the attention and follow-up of the elderly, with prior or without them, residents in third-year centres". This amendment, ladies and gentlemen, essentially confirms the People's Parliamentary Group's commitment to mental health care and, in particular, our seniors. We think the amendment is better at some point correcting the original text, adapting current circumstances and reality to the situation of our autonomous community.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u321	We are waiting, Mrs Acuña – finished, president – for the acceptance of our amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Give a voice to Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u323	Good afternoon to all and to all. Just comment that I won't make use of my intervention time. If I say to the Socialist Group that I will support this motion, and that I support freedom of expression. I also add, like my fellow BNG, to this support show. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u324	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u325	It comes out, sometimes, quite cheap to defam some people on the left and yet they're very cheap also to many and many on the right get out unpunished cases of corruption. In this sense, move your support to Mrs Acuña and say we're going to support this PSdeG motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Motion author group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u327	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the groups to my person and for this initiative. My professional career shows my interest in psychogeria and all medical matters. Tomorrow there is a control session in this House. [[Applause]] I really hope that Mr Feijóo will stop acting like a hooligan from the People's Party and apologize. Because, Mr. Puy, maybe you don't remember him, but it was, exactly, the... president of the government the... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u328	Quiet, please. Pronounced on the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u329	...that he judged me and condemned me with the sole intention of harming my group. But...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u330	Quiet. Mrs. Acuña, you pronounce yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u331	...I'm afraid, even if you don't like it, it's going to be Feijó that's going to happen to history as the president of dangerous friendships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u332	Mrs. Acuña, you pronounce yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u333	Of course, we're going to accept the amendment you tabled... or... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u334	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. The amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u335	...the Galician Nationalist Block Group, because we share the problem with clinical psychology as well. Thank you very much. The People's Party won't accept it. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u336	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. We passed the motions. We started with the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Motion vote, G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in connection with the preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. This motion is therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u337	We are now voting on the motion from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which stated that it would accept the vote by points. We vote. Vote of the first point of motion, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the precariousness of the labour market. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This point is therefore rejected. Vote of points 2 and 3 of the motion, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the demands to be made by the Greek Government to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in relation to the precariousness of the labour market. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. As a result, these two points were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u338	And finally, we voted for the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, on the initiative of Mrs. Maria Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions that the Government of Greece must carry out in the field of psychogeriatric care. It has already stated that the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was accepted. Voting of the compromised text of the motion of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the area of psychogeriatric care. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u339	We continue with the sixth point, which is the non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government for the implementation and management of railway services of proximity in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u340	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mrs. Pontón has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u341	Very good night. Today the Galician Nationalist Block defends, through this initiative, two things that are closely linked and that in practice... [[Murmurs.]] It's just that I hear a lot more of the background noise than myself, but nothing happens to me; over the years we're almost getting used to it, though it's quite complicated to do it. Well, as I was saying to them, we have an initiative that has two points that are closely linked to solving a problem that we believe is very serious in our country, which is derived from the absence of a global vision about the railway and the conviction of both the Government of Galicia and the Government of the State that the modernization of the railway is a strategic element for the future of Galicia, that the Greeks and the Greeks have the right to have services of proximity and, therefore, to break with what has been a historical discrimination in our country in relation to this means of transport, which is much more than a means of transport between people – which must also be a means of transport of commodities – and which is an element of very important development and social cohesion. The two proposals that we make at the first point, what we are asking for, is a commitment by the State to the establishment of neighbourhoods in Galicia, as if it had been made in other territories, and for that we propose a special and multiannual fund which is designed to put in place the vicinity in Galicia and which has at least a 400 million euro allocation, which we estimate is a figure that would allow this service to be implemented effectively. And that, in parallel with the negotiation of that fund, the Galician Union is committed to providing itself with an instrument that allows the management of the neighborhoods and, therefore, we demand a German railway public that is able to manage the services. I would like to remind you at this point that the Government of Feijó in 2009 presented itself to the elections and promised in this Parliament that the surroundings would be put in place in our country. Even if they were able to finance more than one million euros three studies of light meters, one for Santiago de Compostela, another for the Coruña and another for Vigo, where we were announced and promised that in that legislation that infrastructure, which was the first step of the neighborhoods in our country, would already be underway. The reality is that public money has been squandered in studies, the only thing we have is a railway that hasn't just started. We only have part of the service where it is obvious that it has improved, we have some pathways between The Coruña and Vigo and between Santiago and Ourense that have significantly improved the characteristics of the road, there is also a better service in some aspects of those that existed before, but it is not perfection. We have denounced in this Parliament that in what is that axis, that part of the Atlantic Axis, because the Atlantic Axis is Ferrol-Vigo, but in particular in the case of the Coruña-Vigo the times that are not being adapted to the needs or to a modern provision of service. We have taken initiatives in that direction, because we believe that we need to adjust train schedules to the needs that workers and workers and students may have, and we have given discussions, in particular, about how a person who really wants to use the railway does not have the services and services that are acceptable in other parts of the state, where they have frequencies that are much higher than we have in our country. But we also see how out of that part where – everything has to say, sixteen years after the arrival of the AVE – we continue to have a few substitutes, only in a very small part of our country has acted by improving the railway's benefits. The rest of the matter is that it has the same characteristics of the track that decades ago, even as a paradigmatic example we have the case of Coruña-Ferrol, which has the same track as when it was inaugurated a hundred years ago. It's a fixed picture, it hasn't been invested in that rail frame, though it communicates two cities as important as La Coruña and Ferrol, and Ferrol has an external port and it's a city that from an industrial point of view would have a lot of dynamism. Well, ladies and gentlemen, all this is a waste, it was done today to go from Coruña to Ferrol, which is 63 kilometers, travel time varies between 140 hours and 1.06 hours. And they have benefits that will suit any one of us here -- they won't recognize him safely from this Chamber, but we're going out and they're going to have to recognize him -- that it's not a service for people to be able to use them normally and regardless of the particular vehicle. Ferrol-La Coruña has two trains, six o'clock in the morning, which leaves an Alvia and a half distance, because this is the problem of having railway services that are planned to go to Madrid but not to communicate the country itself. Well, we have a train at 6:00 in the morning, there's another train at 9:00 in the morning, and they don't have service until 1.25 in the morning. This is worse than 20 years ago, because the service has deteriorated. Something similar happens to the Horn-Ferrol, where they also have the same fate in the opposite direction: 6.38, 8.45 and 2.30. And with prices that are a little disorbited, because they range from 5 euros to 12.15 euros. If we take what happens between Lugo and Monforte, the situation is as dramatic as this one. To go from Lugo to Monforte, which takes a very important part of the province of Lugo, you have a train at 8.55, and then there are two trains at the same time: 11.10. The truth is this is not a service provision, but in fact, it is that, in fact, as trains go to Madrid, some way around, but there is no conception that the inhabitants of Lugo and Monforte have the right to have rail connections, even though we know that there is an economic flow and dynamism, from the point of view of people's communication needs, which would provide as if they could have these kinds of services. We take, for example, Vigo-Ourense, and here's what we have is a slow train. There's a service that lasts 2.48 hours, a journey that in a private vehicle only lasts one hour, depends on the speed and respect that people have. How can we have trains that none of us are less than half an hour? So, there's no competitive benefit and all the promises that have been made in connection with the modernization of the railway we see going down into broken sack, and what we have in our country is a subsidiary of AVE, that the only function and functionality that the Government of the State sees it is that we arrive as soon as possible to Madrid, but forget that the railway has to perform a function of social cohesion within the country itself. And we also saw how during the People's Party's governments they cut out in a very remarkable way the services and services that Galicia had. Facing a data pair. We see how 20 stations have been lost – since 2013, we are talking – as if 20 railway stations have been closed, we have 24 railway stations in our country where there is only one daily frequency, 104 trains a week have disappeared in Galicia and 1,117 have been stopped. Galicia is much more than the Atlantic East or the cities of Coruña, Santiago, Vigo or Vilagarcia. There's a whole country that also has the right to railway services. It seems to us that this is a structural problem to which concrete solutions and measures must be put. That's why we say today that this Parliament is not irresponsible about the future of our train. Among other things, because the Autonomy Statute collects competences that enable the Galician Union to launch its neighbourhoods. We understand that on the basis of the discrimination the State has made with our country in terms of infrastructure and communication, this is a fair demand, which is to repair discrimination. We hope that they will not condemn the Greeks who continue to be marginalized in the modernization of the railway, because we believe that we also have the right to have the services that others have. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u343	Good night, everyone. In Galicia the nearby train is in danger of extinction and for the moment there is no medicine that cures it. These last few days we have seen a demonstration with a demanding journey from Lugo to Monforte in charge of the "Lugo Platform don't miss the train", to claim better railway services to the province, without funds for its intermodals, not to miss the mid-range routes and with the claim of the Lugo-Monforte-Uurense high-speed line. But this is not the only demand throughout our country, because here we suffer the dislodge of administrations with respect to rail investments. Now we're talking only about the high-speed line, which, at the moment, is not such, to leave Galicia to the capital of the state. We don't know if this is a direct one to be able to walk out of the land looking for life. And you're being exacted, we also want decent communications with other points of the state and also with Portugal. The trace existing in the Atlantic East, with the largest number of users in the territory with the most population, was not taken advantage of a portion of it without allocations for infrastructure renovations, as is the case with the Ferrol-A Coruña route, something unthinkable in one of the most populated districts in Galicia. We add to this the reduction of frequencies, the elimination of stops, the early hours and the long duration of travel time, which promote the fall on travellers and travelers, and thus justify the elimination of services. The departmental city is almost incommunicado to go to the Herculina city, despite its proximity and to travel to other points of the Galician geography, making the journey to Lugo endless or reducing to nothing the service it had in Madrid. And following in the north of that country, we have to talk about the narrow trains, the FEVE, which have been from Renfe since 2013. Trains of proximity that unite Ferrol with the north coast, which are currently in a precarious situation, also providing future mobilizations in defense of this train, because it is the only means of collective transport of these districts. Even on the line that joins Ferrol and Ribadeo, due to lack of human resources, the company is obliged to offer alternative bus service to take travellers and travelers to different stops and pedestrians. Or the case of Tui, who loses train frequencies Vigo-Madrid, or the case of Ourense, who also loses frequencies to come, for example, to the capital of Galicia. There was no serious wager for the railway, as an element of territorial and social cohesion and articulation for its accessibility in the localities, taking into account our dispersed population model, with the possibility of offering a better price to users and users, the broad environmental advantages and of offering redistribution in different means of transport. In these moments of economic crisis, there was no concern for the community service, nor was it taking into account the increasing ageing of the population, which is very alarming on this land, making mobility easier for our geography. Time deletion and modification is a constant that does not facilitate the use of this medium in proximity distances when a person is going to work or study. The launch in Galicia of the proximity train is an old social demand and an old political promise, which has never been fulfilled so far. However, as on other occasions, the options that lines such as The Horn-Ferrol or Pontevedra-Vigo became close lines were truncated. It's very important to balance the conventional high speed-net binomial, increasing investments for the conventional train. We see in other communities that the so-called train, with good timetables, except in Galicia, being the only community on the coast of the Spanish State without this system. Let us see, for example, Asturias, Cantabria, Euskadi, Catalonia, Andalusia Valencia, etc. And we must underline the transcendental role of the transport of goods for the development of the Greek economy, an old demand for companies, being one of the conditions for improving and growing; the insistence on improving the conventional network for management and operation, without having to be conditional on the circulation of the passenger train and focusing on improving connections with its ports, with its interior and outside Galicia. In 2011 it was very loudly known the inclusion of Monforte in the European corridor for rail freight transport, but that, for the moment, seems to be going to become a mirrorism. We are going to give our vote to this non-law proposal, because we understand that the train is a fundamental element for the social and economic development of this land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u344	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u345	We will support this non-law proposal that we have already debated here on many occasions, and that is a debate that repeats itself, and especially when electoral campaigns arrive, and to which no party dares say it is against. Everyone is in favour, until the People's Party in 2012 said that we were going seriously this time and that a proximity service would be created to have trains nearby in our country. The question to ask is, what did the People's Party do about this legislation, with a government friend in Madrid? You should ask yourself what you've done, if you've come forward, if you've made a move. We believe that, of course, no, and you will have to wonder why in this country, having an infrastructure between Ferrol-The Coruña that binds almost 500,000 inhabitants – when you collect populations like Ferrol, Fene, Pontedeme, Cabanas, Mine, Betanzos, Bergondo, Cambre, the University of Coruña, Cullerodo, etc. – when you collect populations like Ferrol, Fene, Pontedeme, Betanzos, Betanzos, Bergondo, Cambre, the University of Coruña, Cullerodo, etc. – as an infrastructure that would be relatively cheap to perform its best for him to perform the function of nearby services, why he never did. And of course it's not because of a technical matter or a question of a lack of viability, it's a political decision determined by interests, by the economic interests of certain sectors that the People's Party defended and also in the defence of a model of infrastructure construction in which there was always a lot of business behind it. It is clear that for large builders the business of AVE, the business of large infrastructure, is much bigger than the business of enabling small reforms during the last 30 years of a way to serve as a nearby service. It is for us the only possible explanation that, for example, in this area Ferrol-A Coruña or Pontevedra-Vigo there is no such nearby service. And besides it's shown that it's a kind of service that favors the majority of society, in front of another kind of transport that is for minorities, and that that's also, once again, the People's Party doesn't care, it doesn't matter because it defends other models. Also when we talk about climate change, about sustainability, here also comes Mrs. Wellness Counsellor – the recalled Beatriz Mato – about a plan against climate change. Now, that's right, car-based infrastructures and individual displacements. The undeveloped train. What has the People's Party done to vertebrate the country?, how are the main towns and cities of this country connected thanks to infrastructure policies that have developed over the past 30 years?, and in addition to demonstrating that always the arguments used by the People's Party to dismantle railway stations, to reduce frequencies and to reduce railway services to the majority of society are false, and it is precisely to start with a vicious circle, which is that the more they reduce, the less users. Now, the opposite is true, when people get frequency, if they give them quality services and if they give them competitive times, the train is always a success, and if they don't explain, why when there are 5 Ferrol-The Coruña trips, there are 16 trips by Ferrol-The Coruña bus? What happens, how can it be justified that there is no demand when there are 16 trips on bus lines? Therefore, it is a political decision that responds to a model of infrastructure guided by the business of large companies, as they are also seeing in the different donations of certain companies to governments that favored them, investing millions and millions of euros in works that did not have as much social utility as could have the proximity service in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u346	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u347	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Just a week ago Mrs Pontón brought an initiative to Commission 2 on the implementation of a new policy on collective road transport. It happened what we all knew before, all opposition groups support that initiative, except the People's Group, which rejected it. I already told Mrs. Pontón that you were asking for pears from the gulf, that you were asking the councilman – who ignored the word transports in the domination of the council – to settle real issues that relate to his competences in transport. I don't think they're expecting them. I feel like when we bring transport initiatives to this House, the lady councillor's face reflects what you're thinking, what the hell are you talking about? We have a General Directorate of Mobility installed in the interim, three general directors in three years. It seems that the German Government and the Council have been more busy in the mobility of the director and general directors than in the mobility of the Greeks and the Greeks, and the result is certainly disastrous. You see, air transport is still uncoordinated and no attempt at coordination is being made. The road freight sector is abandoned to its fate; the associations and federations of this transport reject the forms and the background of this executive, feel ignored and abandoned. The school transport just went to the courts to collect what was owed to them. Road passenger transport is in an impasse situation, with concessions extended by Mr Feijóo's resolution in 2010 and pending the appeal brought by the National Competition Commission to the Supreme Court. The medium distance rail transport has removed stops, reduced routes and modified schedules to lose accessibility. Metropolitan transport has, today, the same implantation as in 2010. Intermodality is only a theoretical concept used by the Government without real concretion that exemplifies it. Ladies and gentlemen, today, after seven years of the People's Party's Government, most of the country's Galicians and Greeks have fewer alternatives and less access to public transport that meets new needs. This mismanagement certifys that public transport is not a priority for this Government, nor for the Council, and the General Directorate of Mobility has shown an alarming incompetence to manage the day-to-day transport in Galicia: incompetence to manage and inability to project. Mrs. Pontón, at the beginning of my intervention, I was telling you were asking for pears in the hayloft, and the olmo certainly does not give pears, the same thing that this board isn't for transport, it's not going to give anything in the transport. We share your argument and your proposals, we agree, so we will support your initiative. In fact, all the groups of this House have adopted similar initiatives in recent years, even if there has been unanimous approval in this Parliament since 2010. In theory, the aim is the same: the system of rail transport in the vicinity is in place. It's implanted in 13 Spanish populations, seven of them similar to those that could be settled in Galicia, why isn't it implanted in Galicia? Because the indolence of this Government, the Council and the Directorate-General for Mobility make it impossible, because in order to be able to do so, and this Government does not want to, and the Directorate-General for Mobility is incapable. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u348	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Goldar Güimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u349	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening, evening already, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. I defend in this first non-law proposal that brings the debate of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG the political position of the majority group of the House with regard to the allocation and transfer of a special and multiannual fund for the launching of railway proximity services in Galicia, providing it with a minimum of EUR 400 million, in addition to the constitution, within six months, of a Greek railway public that manages the services of proximity to our community, as literally refers to the resolution of its initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent times the situation of the Galician railway network has experienced very important changes and improvements that no one has denied anymore, except for those of old, as always, of course, it is, that either they do not like or do not like but constantly, and at most – and I say these improvements – if we note that the Greek railway maps have always been heavily conditioned by an accidental orography that has made rail communications difficult with the peninsula center. The arrival of high speed to Galicia has, as everyone knows, subjected the execution of works once again outlined for railway lines and the realization of other modernization of already existing conventional routes. The entry into operation of the Atlantic Axis in 2015 also put forward a fundamental advance for our mobility, as well as the high-speed arrival in 2018 will allow you to travel to Madrid in three hours, which will constitute – without any doubt – one of the most outstanding milestones that reaches our society in the development and modernization of its infrastructures, except, of course, it is, that directly prevents someone or anyone from directly agreeing, indirectly, that does not happen. With regard to the provision of services, public administrations, ladies and gentlemen, must ensure that there is an offer in accordance with the existing demand, which meets the actual needs of compulsory mobility, such as daily shift to work, study centres, which facilitates the collectivity and mobility of users and, of course, responds to the interests of most of them. However, Mrs. Pontón, at our trial, at least this offer of services does not have to be formed exclusively by rail transport, but by that mode of transport which, in every case, better adapts to the demand to meet, in fact given Galician population dispersal, the railway system is not always what provides a more suitable offer to the needs of the population – for its smallest accessibility – and in that sense collective bus transport has the capacity to provide a Mayan that covers a wider geographical area than that provided by the train. Thus, in order to promote the use of public transport and improve mobility in the metropolitan areas of our community, the Government of Galicia launched in 2010 the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan, which is already active in the metropolitan areas of Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo and Vigo, and likewise in summer of this 2016 foresees the implementation in the Ourense area. And as I had the opportunity to forward to you at the last session of Commission 2nd, Mrs. Pontón – also mentioned by Mr. Fernández – on the basis of an analysis of his initiative on collective road transport policy, this Galician metropolitan transport plan foresees important benefits for citizens, such as, among other things, the general cost of payments with the Galician metropolitan card, an additional 15% allowance for the most recurrent users, zonal tariff system with free transhipment, etc. As I reminded you then, and now I reiterate to you, the promotion of the use of public transport, which currently accounts for average savings of EUR 600 per year for its usual users, and the provision of a real alternative to the particular vehicle, are the main foundations of the promotion of the transport system itself's metropolitan transport plan. And before I finish, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the almost eternal contradictions of the BNG Parliamentary Group. For eight years, nothing less, they were practically silent when socialist ministers, failing to remember this land, decided, with the excuse of the construction of the AVE, closing railway stations and raising the conventional line of the Atlantic East, to which this parliamentary group, of course, was always opposed while others in this House agreed. I'm talking to you, for example, about the railway station of Portas, next to my county of Caldas de Reis, which I'm sure you remember perfectly, because you were already there in this very House. You too, ladies and gentlemen, while a socialist minister, the one who produced a great deal of happiness from the Galician Plan, wanted to transfer the railroad lines in disuse, and another socialist minister also refused to transfer the conventional line from the Atlantic East, or directly disaffected sections, leaving them out of the network of general interest, and when that happened publicly, at least, nothing audible said. And Mr. Fernández, with all the respect you know I have, lessons from your political group in railway policy, justice, nothing more. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of what I have explained to you, Mrs Pontón, this parliamentary group does not consider the adoption of its initiative to be enough, and as a result it will not support it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u350	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Pontón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u351	Thank you very much, President. I will begin by thanking both the AGE Group and the Socialist Group, as well as the Joint Group for supporting this initiative, and regret that, once again, the People's Party is against the modernization of this country's railway, and that it comes here, in addition, with false arguments about aspects that were not part of the debate. I think it's the wrong thing to bring up the written interventions is to have no ability to move the script depending on what's going on in the Chamber, but it's... it's... I don't know if they're nervous or nervous, but in any case I hope they can... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u352	Quiet, please. Yes, you can go on, Mr. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u353	If I may be allowed by the PP Members, I have no problem. Thank you very much. I think it's absolutely disappointing that you come here to hold the Galician Nationalist Block responsible for the People's Party's failure in relation to AVE, because I think it was Mr. Alvarez Helmets – whom you after the Prestige catastrophe awarded with a medal – which he promised us would be in 2008. Then I think it was Mr. Feijóo, who made a Pact for the Burdour that already shielded the arrival of the AVE to Galicia, that would arrive in 2012. Then they told us that in 2015, and now they tell us that in 2018. We know that the Coruña-Ferrol line is still exactly the same as a hundred years ago, and that you could make very small investments that would reduce the times to half and do nothing. That the southern exit for the port connection, which is strategic for this country, you don't care. That during the People's Party's Government services were cut off, because, I insist, in this country – Galicia – the Greeks and the Greeks live in more places than in the Coruña, than in Santiago, that in Pontevedra or in Vigo, and that, therefore, one cannot afford to have only one railway line designed for that axis, because what we are condemning is a part, discriminating a part of the Greeks and the Greeks, and also building a country where territorial differences are exacerbated, increasing. And your intervention was very clear, you're just worried about getting to Madrid. Of course, it's the only obsession they have, and the railway design is clearly thought of that. Tell me about a metropolitan transport plan, which has nothing to do with what we're talking about here today, just to justify that they're against starting the neighborhoods. I hope they won't be a recollection for much longer for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-23-DSPG142.u354	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you.
