ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. Thank you, good morning again. Let us resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions with an oral answer from the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the current political situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u2	Mrs. Vilan, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President of the Galician Union. Today we are going to ask you for the assessment of the current political situation, more specifically, of your commitment to the development and consolidation of our autonomy, and more specifically, of the progress of self-government in our Autonomous Community, because what better political assessment of an autonomous community than our own, like Galicia, is the one that speaks of the improvement of its self-government? And to ask our question, we want to ask you for two questions: transfers and funding, doing a memory exercise. First of all, with regard to transfers in 2009, his party said: "PPdEG will continue to demand competences in the next legislation". The PPdeG believes that the work of the Galician Union should be directed at seeking a competitive enlargement to Galicia. So far perfect, even you, Mr. President, in 2010 asked Zapatero for progress in self-government and the transfer of powers. But he arrived in 2012 and his speech changed. Your election program was no longer about transfers, but in any case, for example, the reformulation of AP-9. Could it perhaps be the reason, Mr. President, that in 2007, 2009 and 2010 was Zapatero the President of the Government while in 2012 the President was Mr. Rajoy, now in office, and you began to forget to claim him for the transfer of powers? During the Touriño and Zapatero governments there were transfers and transfers of competences, the last – negotiated in 2008 – was in June 2010, including the transfer of the building of Benito Corbal, 47, of Pontevedra – and as I am of Pontevedra I know well what I am talking about –. In the past six years, Mr President, there have been zero claimed competences and zero actual transfers; the same has happened with funding. In 2012, his electoral programme said the following – and I quote literally –: "During the next legislation, the revision of the financing system will be addressed. From PPdeG it's a key issue, as far as it depends on the amount of public services to which Galician citizens can access. The PPdeG's allegations did not have the receptiveness that the Socialist Government deserved. The PPdeG undertakes to develop a study showing the weaknesses of the current system of self-financing." You know that the funding system had to change in 2014, because that's what the 2009 law says, but it hasn't done, and you, Mr. President, have remained and is silent. We need to address this reform, not just to strengthen the autonomy of our decisions, but because basically, Mr President, this funding system depends on our teaching, our health, our social services, our public services, and they do not understand the political expectations or colors of the Presidents of the Council of Galicia. This parliamentary group has claimed information for the modification of our system, and to you, Mr President, we have demanded that the Rajoy Government be asked for a new system for our public services to be provided with quality, curiously the same as you promised in 2012, and we continue to wait. In short, Mr. President, what is your commitment to improving the advancement of Galician self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Welcome as a new spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It's true that there's not much left to finish the legislation, but I'd like us to be able to keep a constructive dialogue in the ranks that remains until the end of the legislation. Your Honor, in your first speech, ask me for my assessment of the current political situation. You probably hadn't asked this question, since when it was registered you didn't even have the position of spokesperson. In any case, with great pleasure, I will try to answer your questions in the formulation of the question. Your Honor, I have come very briefly to ask you what my assessment, indeed, of the current political situation. In Spain, the current political situation, in my opinion, is marked by a commitment by its party, the Socialist Party, to block the Government of the nation. After five months of holding elections, or six, the Socialist Party for the first time in its history does not accept the election result and is blocking a government in the country. Secondly, in my opinion, the situation in Spain, from an autonomous point of view and from a municipal point of view, is enshrined in municipal governments, especially in the hands of populism; that is, through the vote and support of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, who constantly criticize them, but who keep them in institutions. Faced with this, Your Honor, there is a party that won the elections, which has over seven million votes and has raised something quite reasonable: since there is no absolute majority, we must either make a coalition government or make a government pact to facilitate the government of the institutions and the government of Spain. Your Honor, in Galicia things don't change much, though with some specificity. Indeed, in Galicia there are cities where the People's Party has won and the Socialist Party has again supported populist governments; that is to say, again constantly criticising them by their leading leaders. In relation to the Socialist Party, the situation in Galicia is a little more complicated. He has just elected the third candidate for the Presidency of Galicia; he has three candidates in this legislature. At the moment, the Socialist Party is sending – if it is possible to say that it sends someone – a manager and, lastly, the Socialist Party in Galicia ceases to be PSdeG to become strict sense in the Spanish Socialist Workers Party; that is, decisions are taken in Ferraz and not taken in Galicia. Look, Your Honor, that's why we're surprised that you haven't noticed two things: the most important transfer that Galicia has achieved in recent years has been to keep the self-government intact. The most important transfer is that Galicia belongs to its destiny; the most important transfer is that it does not send the Government of Spain or send the Minister of the House, but it sends the Council of Galicia and the German Parliament; that is the most important transfer of all that we can assume. [[Applause]] Your Honor, speaking of funding, after yesterday's show, I suppose we will have occasion for you to say to us: Are you in favour of reforming the Constitution? Are you in favour of a Greek cup? Are you in favour of disauthorising your candidate for the presidency of the Union, Mr Leicega?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u7	Your Honor, are you in favor of any model in autonomic funding? Look, Mrs Vilan, with all due respect, we have clear self-government and the financing of the Autonomous Community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Galicia, for dialogue it is not that I find this voicer, it is here that you will find the PSdEG, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the PSdEG, in any case for constructive dialogue. You are here – you may have to review it – to answer the opposition's questions, you are not the opposition to answer the questions of the President of Galicia, because you are Government, you are not just a manager, Mr President; you are the President of the Union and you have to answer and answer questions in the Galician Parliament, which is the home of the debate. That is why yesterday this parliamentary group allowed the debate of the BNG bill. It doesn't agree with its content, but if we allow the debate; you don't, you don't believe in the debate, you don't believe in democracy, and you don't believe so little in the debate and democracy that you don't understand that it was the PSdEG militants who elected our candidate for the presidency of the Council of Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u10	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u11	...not like you, who use this finger to make, precisely, that designation. That's the difference: we are through debate, democracy and participation and also dialogue, Mr President. By the way, you forget to talk about the PSdeG, you start talking about Galicia at once; you start to demand transfers, overcompetence, talk about the funding system at once. How many transfers has Rajoy's government claimed during his legislation? None, no, Mr. President! It seems you've been more dedicated to doing a career in Madrid and you've forgotten a little bit about Galicia since you've been president of the Union. President, we just asked you one thing: since you yesterday had the courage to leave the lecture to ask for a demographic cohesion fund in the context of the debate on the financing system, forgetting, having forgotten, the funding system for the seven years that you have been managing – not governing – Galicia, we asked you whether that will be the next promise of your next electoral programme and, above all, the most important, Mr President of the Board, if you will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vilan, I'm trying to answer the questions that the Socialist Party is asking me. I read the literality of it: how do you value the current political situation? Don't tell me I haven't made an assessment of the current political situation. [[Laughter]] Look, Mrs. Vilán, with all due respect, to be guided by the interaction that I'm very pleased to have with you in the last few days of this legislation, you have to know exactly what everyone's proposal is. We are against the singularity of an autonomous community in the Constitution and in the state of autonomy. You guys too? So they are against Mr. Pedro Sánchez's proposal to grant Catalonia a singularity in the Spanish Constitution. Are you in favor or against? Mrs. Vilan, allow me not to ask you these questions, but these reflections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u14	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u15	...because I need as President of Galicia, when I speak on behalf of Galicia, to know whether you are against or in favor of a singularity of Catalonia in the Spanish Constitution. Your current leader yes, in favor of singularity, you depend. Look, I need to know, like all the Greeks – I represent this people legitimately – whether you are in favor of the Tide of Podemos or not. Look, in the morning Mr. Luena says in Santiago that it's something normal that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party talks with the Tides of Podemos, but in the evening Mr. Luena in Vigo says textually: "They are intransgent and are obsessed with power." Mrs Vilan – to order the debate – look, yesterday, Your Honor, you told me, in the House, that you are in favour of the coupon in Galicia, that is to say, of changing the Constitution and losing money. Mr. Leicega says that this is nonsense, and now you make it clear to me that you are only in favour of discussing it, but that they are going to vote against it. Your Honor, this is a parliament, this is not a nursery. This is a parliament! You have to stand up and say exactly what you consider appropriate. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I insist that when you give us classes of internal democracy, here we have four provincial congresses and an autonomous congress. What happens, Your Honor, is that now seeing the first row of the Socialist Party – which turns out a few weeks ago was in the last – seeing the first, which now seems to be the last, and seeing the middle, which are mixed, this looks like a chapter of Game of Thrones. Every day you look more like Podemos, Your Honor. That is the problem we have in order to be able to debate honestly. [[Applause]] Look, Mrs Vilán, here in Galicia, there is stability, there is government, there is decision, there is progress, there is improvements, there is investment, there is new opportunities, and there is no blockade or paralysis. Look, Your Honor, the fundamental difference between Galicia and the Socialist Party of Galicia is that there is unity here. Here's a common project and a constructive attitude, and that's why I'd like the Socialist Party to promote unity in Galicia, a constructive project and to have an opinion. The fundamental thing to be able to debate, Mrs Vilán, is to have an opinion. The fundamental thing is not to delegate indelegable decisions; the fundamental thing is for the Socialist Party to say whether it is with the Constitution or with populism, whether it is with Galicia or with self-determination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u17	...that the Socialist Party will say whether it is in favour of autonomous communities speaking on the same board and on the same equality or whether it is in favour of the privileges of certain autonomous communities. Your Honor, tell me if you're against the cohesion fund. From the demographic cohesion background... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u18	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u19	...you're in favor of Asturias, you're in favor of Aragon, you're in favor of Castile La Mancha, and now you're uncomfortable. Mrs Vilan, I would like you to clarify at least some specific position in the next plenary session. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the social situation in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, last week, while you were traveling to the Caribbean, in Galicia we knew the latest data of poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u22	Quiet, please! Quiet... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence! Silence! We all know what you were talking about, Mrs. Pontón, about the trip you made to Cuba. I understand perfectly well. Perfectly, it doesn't have to be the trip to Cuba. [[Laughter]] So be quiet, please. That's it, that's it... your time will be compensated. Your time will be compensated. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, as I told you, while you were traveling to the Caribbean, in Galicia we knew the data of poverty, which they leave to the open what their true inheritance is, Mr. Feijóo. It's data from the INE, from Mr. Rajoy's Government INE. I also give you this data because I already know that you on other occasions have criticized us for quoting organizations that have given you many disgusts, revolutionary Caritas-like organizations. It's data from Mr. Rajoy's Government INE. And let me highlight one of the data that was given to us in these statistics. Look, in the last year, the poverty rate in Galicia has increased by 25%. Today there are 702,000 people at risk of social exclusion; that is, 702,000 people who have to live each month with less than 600 euros, Mr. Feijóo. But you go out every day on the news, on the radio, telling us there's economic recovery, begging us to get out of the crisis. And I wonder if you know what it means to be at risk of social exclusion. Well, it means that while I'm asking you this question, there's a lot of Welsh and Welsh people who don't get their bills; it means there's parents and mothers who can't fill the fridge, who can't stop the heating, it means that there's a lot of families in this country that when they get the light receipt, the water receipt, the gas receipt, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, the heart if they put it in their mouths. But what I see is that you don't know what I'm talking about, that you from Monte Pio are not aware of what it costs many families in this country to take care of these receipts, and from that ignorance we assume every day that Galicia goes well, that we are in the right direction, as your election propaganda says. But there's more, because, look, poverty is not only affecting people who are taking the risk, people who have been unemployed for years and have already exhausted all help. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, poverty also affects people who work, because the policies of the People's Party have created a great social innovation, that of the people who work but who are poor; people who have a job but who have a wage of misery that doesn't allow them to reach even on the 15th of the month. And allow me to give you a data – which, of course, your advisors haven't passed you – you see, in Galicia there are 180,000 people who work for an annual income that doesn't reach 2,000 euros. All year's work and they're not able to bring together 2,000 euros, Mr. Feijóo, which is what you earn in a week. This is the great innovation of PP policies:...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u25	...people who work but are poor, an increasingly unequal Galician, where wages have not stopped falling since you were president of the board in 2009. But, look, under his propaganda, the reality, the grave social emergency situation in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u27	And I want to ask you today a question that is at the head of thousands of Galicians and Greeks in this country: what do you talk about when Galicia begs us for the good news that we are coming out of the crisis? Or did you end up believing your own lies?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u29	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I, of course, have respect for Cuba, and especially for the Greeks who live in Cuba; you seem not so much. [[Applause]] On wages, Your Honor, it gives me the feeling that, as you are a Member, you do not know what the President of the Council of Galicia charges, but it is in the Official Journal of Galicia. You can consult him to check his fees and mine. Look, Your Honor, with regard to poverty rates, I want to tell you that, in fact, it remains one of Spain's main problems and a major problem in Galicia, but I would like, since you speak of that INE statistics, to tell you some considerations: first, in Galicia the risk and poverty rate is lower than that of Spain; second, that when I arrived in the Government the risk and poverty rate was higher than today; third, that in Spain the poverty rate has risen, and in Galicia has fallen. And so, Your Honor, as I am aware of my country's problems, I think you should know that in 2008 the rate of poverty in Galicia was higher than the last year of 2015. And that, which is not, of course, to be quiet, yes, at least to be careful. Look, Your Honor, that survey you're talking about the INE says in Galicia the percentage of people who have difficulty reaching the end of the month has fallen from 21.5% to 7.8% in the last year. Consequently, we have the rate of homes with difficulty to reach the end of the month in half of Spain. That's why I think all these things have to keep encouraging us to keep working, and of course I've done nothing but work on this matter since I've been president of the Government since 2009. First, what I had to do was cover the holes you left. Secondly, to live and live in Galicia with 2,000 million euros less every year; that is, with 20% less budget, and of course not to use that as an excuse not to do social politics. Your Honor, today at Risga, in non-contributory pensions and in the Social Plan of Economic Inequality, data testify. At Risga, when I arrived, 22 million were spent; now we are investing 52.7 million euros – from 22 to 52–. We maintain as an autonomous community – the first in Spain – the payment of non-contributory pension in extra Christmas payments – the first in Spain during all these years of difficulty. We have made a plan of inequality, a social plan against economic inequality, with all the things you're talking about, to solve food problems, to solve energy problems, to solve housing problems, to solve mortgage rejections, to solve vacation layoffs. Your Honor, I think you should know this; you certainly know it. Yesterday we even signed 26 omnibuses, on the Welsh Network against poverty and social exclusion – all, and more the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces –, the plan – another plan –, a unique social agenda against poverty and social exclusion. I want to tell you that we are Spain's autonomous community with a plan against poverty and the most ambitious social exclusion. And I want to thank all the omnibuses and all the municipalities of Galicia... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u31	...that they accept that unique social agenda. So, Your Honor, if you're still a nationalist -- we'll see how the BNG ends -- and if you're still interested in Galicia, and not just the mixed populism of Spain, you should first accept, as the president of the Galician Network said yesterday against poverty and social exclusion: "We're better than Spain, but this should never reassure us." I am not quiet, Your Honor, but I do demand the solidarity effort of the Greek society against poverty and social exclusion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u33	Look, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you can do the dialectic pirouettes that look like you and use demagogy as you like, but there's a social situation that's very clear and that's also telling the statistics of the People's Party, and there's one I quoted earlier, and that's how poverty has grown in this country last year, Mr. Feijóo, while you're telling us that we're leaving the crisis, and it's a 25% increase. And you come here to tell us that nothing happens, that your policies are a success, and even here you boast that there is growing poverty in this country. Because, let's repeat, it's not to suck that we have to spend more money on Risk, because that means that in Galicia there's more and more poverty, Mr. Feijó. And that's the cause and consequence of the policies you're making, of the policies and lack of initiative to create jobs in this country and also of the social model that the People's Party is defending, which is a model where workers and workers have less and less resources. [[Applause]] What's happened to the wages in our country since you ruled? Do you see this chart, Mr. Feijóo? This is the wages of normal people, not of those who live on Mount Pio. This is the salary that makes people in this country not have to pay the light, to pay the gas, to pay the water or to pay their mortgages. Look, the paper is clear that it bears absolutely everything. You can come here with patches, propaganda, in full electoral campaign, and sell what you want, but the only obvious thing is that with your policies there's more inequality and there's more poverty, and that's the social model that you're defending for this country. And what nobody's going to buy is that now you're going to do exactly the opposite of what you've been doing for seven years, because, look, if there's a problem for access to drugs, what you're going to have to put down is PP reforms, which are preventing a lot of people from accessing these drugs. If there's a problem with mortgages, you'll have to change that legislation made at the service of the big bank, allowing many banks to remain unpunished with people's homes. If you want to fight poverty, there will be a job reform that did your party in Madrid and that you applauded even with your ears, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and that what is increasingly impoverishing the workers in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u35	...because, if there's poverty, it's not for a divine matter or a plague, if there's poverty, it's because the social model that you're imposing on us is this. Look – and I'll finish, Mr. President – you arrived seven years ago at the Galician Council in lies; you came to Galician Union with lies, but those same lies, Mr. Feijóo, will be the ones who take you out of the Government in October, because, look, on the street they no longer buy you any more propaganda or buy you more lies, because the normal and current people in this country don't suffer from Monte Pio syndrome, you know what the reality is and you know the disaster you're leaving.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u37	Look, Your Honor, let's stop talking about lies and go to the data. The poverty risk rate in 2008 in Galicia – INE source – was 20.9 % – you governed – is now 19.4%; it has decreased. The poverty rate in Spain in 2008 was 19.8%, now it is 22.1%; it has increased. Therefore, the rate of poverty is now lower than when you ruled, and this is not a lie, Your Honor, that is the reality of the facts. [[Applause]] When I arrived in the Government, the poverty rate with the Bipartite was higher, and the poverty rate with the Bipartite was higher than the average in Spain. And now the rate of poverty is lower than that of the Bipartite and is lower than the average of Spain. If you – I insist – talk about truths and lies, you have a problem, like all nationalists, Your Honor, you know what it is? They believe in possession of the truth, and that, when some disagrees, they automatically call it a liar. O you, Your Honor! They're calling them liars to 800,000 Greeks who voted for us, and those we represent, and that's why you shouldn't manipulate, at least, the same source that you use to ask me. Your Honor, that survey of what you're talking about and why, of course, I'm concerned, also points out that the number of homes that are difficult to reach by the end of the month last year was 21.8% and now it's just 7%. If you ask me if 7% is little, I tell you it's a lot, because I would like the vast majority of the Greek homes to arrive at the end of the month without any difficulty. But today in Galicia the homes that arrive at the end of the month with difficulties are half of those that arrive in Spain, and that's why I think you should be a little loyal to our country. Look, if I've re-submitted myself asking for my group's support to be a candidate for the Union, it's because I keep looking at all the Greeks, without distinction and without ideological condition. I will continue to work for my country because I believe firmly in my country. I'm going to keep working to make more social policy, more education, more health and more social services. Have no doubt about it, Your Honor. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I know, Your Honor, that I'm not infallible because I'm not a nationalist, but if I assure you I'm as Greek as you are and I'm sick of Galician problems, let's leave it, if you want, in tie. But I'm not lying or lying to the Greeks, nor am I going to use the way you use the statistics even by falsifying them. Look, Your Honor, yesterday we did a great job: 162 million euros for 36,000 families. That's what we did with the 26 oenegues, with the Greek municipalities and with the Galician Union: the electric ticket, housing for evictions, the rental bonus, the commitment to food – Signoria –, the zero-waiting Risga, the social inclusion aids, the social emergency commitments and complementary. Look, Your Honor, what are we accused of being the most social government in Spain? Yes, Your Honor, don't laugh, because when you laugh you're laughing at Galicia. Galicia is Spain's most supportive autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u39	...and Galicia is investing more in social policy than any other autonomous community in Spain. And I'm proud of you as president of that Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the increase of poverty and precariousness in Galicia in recent years
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u41	Good morning, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President of the Board. You continue to have interventions like this one and you will lose the low credibility you have. If you hide behind the deliberately manipulated use of statistics to deny a reality, you will lose all your credibility, because you know -- you're not stupid -- that statistics talking about the risk rate of poverty reflect that Galicia has a demo that makes the burden of pensions higher than other regions, and that's why it has that effect on the risk rate of poverty. [[Murmurs.]] That is, by lowering average income, the median, there were 60% pensioners who were previously in poverty and were officially no longer at risk of poverty. But that doesn't mean that with the same pension they didn't grow 31% water supplies; 22% housing; sanitation and garbage; 21% teaching, 16%; medicines, 11%, social services, elderly homes and children's schools, 17% increase; fuel, etc. All the services of first necessity have had a spectacular increase and, if wages have dropped, unemployment has increased, Mr. Feijóo, and the prices of the things that people need to live have risen. You'll understand that it's said that there's less poverty today that in 2008 it's going to be like a liar, right? Yesterday he said in an act that there was no need to use the people who suffer the most in the political game, that there was no need to use poverty in the political game. Yes, his friends, like Pachi Lucas, used the training courses for unemployed people to pay 3,000 euros a month as a "winner." Of course, that's not the political game, it's the game of always PP, of corruption, Mr. Feijóo. You, within your cynicism, don't use it for the political game to put the sale before the wound, you see the lead. You only worry about the effect of poverty, Mr. Feijóo, the election, so you move at the last hour to try to conceal the anti-social policies you've made, Mr. Feijóo, with the effects on those below you've had. The seven years of his government were the years of the greatest impoverishment of democracy in this country, Mr Feijóo. We were told that we all had to reach our shoulder to get out of the crisis, but it wasn't, only the ones below, Mr. Feijóo. Seven years later, the poor are the poorest and the rich are the richest; their policies were especially hard with those below. The lower wages have fallen and the corporate benefits have risen. The sum of the question of rising wages, unemployment, rising food prices and basic services is dramatic for many people. Poverty, Mr. Feijóo, has increased in quantity and intensity, and has given rise especially to childhood, youth and women. A question that will remain in the collection you won't answer, Mr. Feijóo: how much has child poverty and youth increased since you rule, Mr. Feijóo? Since you ruled the only working group that has grown was the one that earns half the minimum interprofessional salary, which has grown four points. One in three workers earns less than the minimum interprofessional wage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u43	And you, in addition, by your own political decisions, have destroyed sectors, stopped sectors that could create quality and stable jobs, and with qualified jobs. They crippled the wind sector, destroyed 1 out of every 4 jobs in the industry and 1 out of every 3 jobs in the agribusiness sector. You lost the opportunity to create jobs in these sectors. This is another legacy that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u44	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u45	...will leave this country. And even if there are people who, officially speaking as an employee, don't have enough to live.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u47	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Institute of Statistics publishes the rate of poverty and social exclusion every year. In 2008, the rate of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia was higher than in 2015. You don't like it and you talk about pensions. Were there any pensions in Galicia in 2008, Your Honor? Is it possible that pensions in Galicia as a result... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u50	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u51	...of the autonomous, of the people of the sea and of the people of the field...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u52	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u53	...are they not under the middle, Your Honor? If you don't care! [[Murmurs.]] It even criticizes the price of water and the price of waste, which are municipal powers, where you are, by the way, unpublished. Their municipal social policy simply doesn't exist; now, yes, it turns out that they assume what they're going to do and don't. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, I don't know exactly what council you can consider from the Power Tides, nor do you know exactly where you are, I don't know whether you're a Social Democratic or a Communist. I have no idea why you can imagine that, after the Social Democrats are proclaimed, everything is possible. Yes, that's not a lie, Your Honor. Welcome to Social Democracy! Look, Your Honor, speaking of social democracy in Santiago, it is surprising that you have lowered funding to the Food Bank in 15,000 euros, it is surprising that you have lowered funding to the Home Project in 15,000 euros and it is surprising that you have lowered funding to the Xoan XXIII Hostel in 15,000 euros. Your Honor, is this your social policy, do you lower your commitments at the Food Bank, at the Home Project and at the social shelters? Is this your proposal, Your Honor? Is that your social democracy or is it probably your new communism? Look, lessons, none; commitments, all, but lessons, none. I am telling you, with all due respect, lessons in social policy of AGE, of Anova, of the Tides and Podemos, none at all! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, at this moment in this autonomous community when a Risk to Join file arrives there is no waiting list, you should review the municipalities where they rule as they have the files. Your honor, at this moment, the rental bonus, the transfer of housing from Sareb entities and other banking entities, the agreement with these banking entities and the empty housing program... by the way, Your Honor, why don't you want to join the empty housing program? Why in the county of Ferrol voted against making available the empty dwellings along with those of the Galician Union and the power to rent them or to give them up? Why? Why did they abstain in the Coruña and we had to take it out with the vote of the Socialist Party, the BNG and the PP? Why? Mr. Spokesman, is it possible that you might be interested in sowing social problems in Galicia in order to ultimately hold someone responsible? Your Honor, with all due respect, lessons in social policy of the Tide of Podemos, none. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u55	Mr President, I do not know if it will be in the Rules of Procedure, but I request two rounds of reply; one, for the control of the president, and the other, for the defence of the tides, because I am not at all given time, Mr President. Since you allow him to talk about anything but what he has to talk about, I ask for those two shifts. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, very little you have to assume when you dedicated your turn to opposing the councils where the People's Party was democratically expelled, precisely... Mr. Feijóo, you just lost Santiago, Ferrol and La Coruña because their municipal governments were children of corruption... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u56	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u57	...as in Compostela, with three mayors in a legislature – an example of the stability of the People's Party! – and an absolute contempt and insensitivity for social problems. That's the only reason why The Tides came to the government, with no resources, no money B and no donations from friendly companies. Mr. Feijó, there was only one reason: his policy of aggression against the most disadvantaged, and nothing else. [[Murmurs.]] So keep talking like that and you'll lose your little credibility. Mr. Feijóo, your political decisions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u58	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u59	...have had some effects... I know you're bothering them... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u61	...that they tell them the truth, and that I haven't told them yet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u62	No, there's a whisper.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u63	...that the People's Party is [...]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u64	No, pull that... No, no, no... that expression is withdrawn, and called to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u65	Withdrawal, yes, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u66	The People's Party is not a corrupt party. Removes the expression and calls the command.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u67	I knew it. Please...withdrawn...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u68	I'm clear, let's go! We're not going that way because I'm clear. Call the order, Mr. Sánchez. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u69	The worst corruption, Mr. Feijóo, being very serious, is not that of Mrs. Barberá, it is not that of Mr. Baltar, it is not that of Mr. Gómez de la Serna, it is not that of Mr. Rodrigo Rato, it is not that of paying the reform of the headquarters of Genoa with black money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u71	...is not to receive donations in black money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u73	...the worst corruption is the policies that you've made and that mean...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u74	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u75	...that, after a long time – very hard times in history – to the working people their work does not help them to have a decent life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u76	Finish it, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u77	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. If I hadn't been interrupted by those from the popular bench, I'd have finished. [[Murmurs.]] Their policies meant that the wages of the workers went down, that the business benefits went up, but that, instead, the taxes paid by the workers went up and those paid by the big companies went down. And your friends in Panama, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u79	And what policy did you make at home to avoid the problem of rejections...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u81	...more than last-minute pledges to use people's pain for election?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u82	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u83	Mr. Madeo, a 75% cut...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u84	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u85	...in housing budgets, and if we add...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u86	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u87	...unexecuted, 90%; employment policies, 51% cut.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u88	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u89	Those policies are deliberate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u90	Your time is up, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u91	...to make a rent transfer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u92	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u93	...of the People's Party, none.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u94	Mr. Sánchez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u96	Your time is up. One more minute. Shut up. Mr. President. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] I heard him well. No one here says barbarities. No one calls it barbarities. [[Protests.]] And not between you because you have two and a half warnings, you know. [[Murmurs.]] Watch out! [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. Whenever you want, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, it is not your day, Mr Spokesman, because when we talk about social exclusion and poverty, the logic is to compare the policies of your group and this group. And when I solemnly tell you that we don't understand why your contributions to the Town Hall of Santiago to the Food Bank, to the Home Project and to the Xoan XXIII hostel have been reduced, you must answer, not insult. Your Honor, you must answer, not insult, or do you care what your comrades do outside because you here represent virginal purity, Your Honor? [[Murmurs.]] Is it true that you are not of this world and it turns out that you only answer for yourself and it depends on the moment of the day? Look, "Kichi" – his companion – "obstructed by his unfulfilled promises of housing and employment", "Kichi fails his own campaign against the cold for the homeless," and to this allow me not to speak, that I do not indulge in these issues, but I live in Santiago, Your Honor,... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u98	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u99	...and I have the right, as a citizen of Santiago, to know what you are doing with poverty and social exclusion in the capital of Galicia. I have the right to be a Welshman and President of the Union to ask me why they don't put the empty houses in Ferrol at the disposal of the Empty Housing Bank in Galicia. And why in the Coruña they vote against putting the empty dwellings away and must be the opposition to establishing an empty housing proposal to be used. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, yesterday we agreed among all – we don't need you – 160 million euros for the inequality plan, we approve them with 26 NGOs and the Greek municipalities. For example, dependent on one million hours more care at home; in health matters, funding of medicines to those families who are excluded or in social poverty, which do not do the rest of the autonomous communities; in child poverty, 1,000 families with child poverty protected from this agenda and from institutions. Your Honor, the entities that work for inclusion, 50 professionals more than social services. Look, Your Honor, you will understand that between the evaluation of the unique social agenda made by NGOs and theirs there is a great difference. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm more interested in what professionals are asking for that they're working against poverty and social exclusion than you think in election time, it gives me exactly the same thing, because as you will understand, it's not the same thing. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, do you really know how serious you would be about unemployment and precariousness? By apologizing to the families who live around Reganosa, asking forgiveness to the families who live from the automobile for blocking the expansion of PSA Peugeot Citroën in Vigo and asking for forgiveness to Lugo's families for telling them we're going to build a NATO base when we're going to build unmanned planes and work in Lugo and Galicia. That's what I should do, ask forgiveness from all these people. And by the way, Your Honor, once and for all leave the chavista model definitely. Like it has nothing to do with it, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u101	In this gallery, a member of yours came up with a T-shirt that said, "Chavez, I swear to you, we shall vote for Maduro," and you have nothing to do with, nothing to do with, Your Honor, nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] You have nothing to do with it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It gives me the feeling you're preparing for migration to the Joint Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u103	Look, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u104	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u105	...have you ruling in three important cities in Galicia, three cities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u106	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u107	They've been ruling for a year...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u108	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u109	...and I don't know if it's vague, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u110	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u111	...if by vagueness or inoperation, you are destroying the social policies of previous governments. I only formally ask you again: get to work, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u113	You get to work, Galicia is a country that needs politicians who work and not just policies that destabilize the country. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which is that of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the central government for the measures necessary for the reduction of the type of VAT established for cultural activities, as well as the impulse of a cultural VE within a European Union to allow its harmonisation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u115	No amendments were tabled. Mr Vázquez Blanco has the floor to make this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u116	Yeah, you hear that? Yeah, okay. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is not the first time this debate has been brought to this House. In fact, I don't think it's even the second, but I'm sure it'll be the last, and I'm not saying it because the legislation is over – that too – but because I'm convinced that there will be changes in the government of the state and, therefore, I hope that it will end at once with this slate with which the Rajoy Government condemned the culture of our country. This will be the only way this changes, because if we have to wait for Mr. Rajoy, we're caught. It is precisely today, at the last plenary session of this Parliament, before the next general elections and almost at the end of the legislative process, when it is appropriate again to deal with a matter which unfortunately is still in force, and although we debate it, as I said, several times, unfortunately we must continue to insist, since nothing has happened. The insistence has not prevented the People's Party from continuing to rectify this disastrous decision incomprehensiblely, while promising and lowering other taxes. We see culture again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u117	Excuse me a moment. There's a quite annoying noise and by whom he's in the rostrum I ask you, please be quiet. It's very upsetting who this one is in the use of the word. Let's see if we can keep silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. We see, once again, how culture occupies the last of its priorities. And in this they're consistent, you have to admit it. They do the same in Galicia as in the state, marginalizing culture and the cultural sector. We're probably talking about the most negative measure the State Government has ever taken against culture. And, precisely, it is always necessary to insist on the urgent need for a cultural downturn, because we are at the time of acquiring commitments, at the time of explaining, ultimately, at the time of changing things. And in cultural matters, of course, this measure seems to us to have the highest priority. As you know, in July 2012 Rajoy's Government imposed a generalized rise in the VAT tax rate, which also involved the change in consideration of cultural goods and services, so from 1 September 2012 activities such as cinema, theatre and plastic works suffered an increase of 13 points in the VAT, from 8% to 21%. This means that Spain is the European country with the highest cultural VAT. In fact, it's the only country in the region that equates cultural articles with luxury articles in tax, making culture, of course, a prohibitive asset for a large part of society. We still have an IVE that not only harms millions of consumers of culture, in the good sense of the word – there are so many millions of people who, even if they want, can never go to cinema, theatre or a concert, because their conditions and economic limitations, unfortunately, do not allow them even if we lower the IVE – but also to many middle class sectors that have reduced their attendance to certain cultural events in a country where culture has become badly impoverished. This increase in VAT has converted culture into a luxury article, has produced a terriblely negative economic effect in the cultural sector, which has seen the number of jobs, businesses, agencies, entities, festivals and so on. The great argument of the Government has already been heard hundreds of times, it is the same for all: the crisis. But despite the fact that we already know that the financial crisis, the fall of Lehman Brothers and others was caused by Zapatero, the fact is that Zapatero miraculously managed to achieve its overall effect and also affected most of the world's economies, including the countries of the European Union. And in view of this situation, it hasn't acted the same way in the rest of countries, in fact it hasn't acted or looked the same, so it's in our country where we have the highest cultural issue. In the neighbouring country Portugal is applied by 13%; in Italy by 10%; in Ireland by 9%; in Finland by 10%; in France by 5.5%; in Germany by 7%; in Greece by 6.5%; in the Netherlands by 6%; in Belgium by 6%; in Switzerland by 2.5%; and even Norway by 0%. In Spain we rose from 8 to 21%, 13 points, more than has risen, by the way, any other sector affected by the rise of this government, which in the opposition claimed that rising the EVV was a real nonsense and that this could not be done in a fair economy. Remember that phrase, one more of the so many celebrities of the President of the Government, they just went up to the IVE of the children's whispers. The increase in VVI mainly affects two aspects. The first, which we consider to be the most important, is the access of citizenship to culture. We always talk about the democratization of culture and support any initiative that favours all citizens to have access to culture at the same level as a question of personal training. It's about breaking up with a classical view of culture in which only those with sufficient purchasing power, however, not all of the EVV has an impact, precisely, on that classical model of culture. On the other hand, it is important to take into account that it affects cultural creation, especially small entrepreneurs and self-employed people who work in the world of culture. To give an example, many theatres have chosen to maintain the price of their entrances to the detriment of their profits to go through this period. Still, we have to say that the public has gone down, unfortunately. And past this time, and agreeing with an opinion expressed by economist Alberto del Pozo, it is obvious that the objective of this measure was not the declared intention of harmonizing the guys with Europe, as you have just seen, nothing further than reality, since at present the disparity of types is the norm. It is clear that the objective was simply to try to collect more, although we have to say that given the low relevance – which we already knew at a beginning that would have measured for that purpose – there is no need to rule that the decision also weighed the desire to punish fiscally a sector that had been shown, in general terms, quite critical of Rajoy's government policies. He already said it last year during the Goya awards gala the movie producer Enriquez González Macho: "I don't want to be tired, but it's time for us to get down the VlV," I tell them exactly the same thing. This increase in VAT on the entrances of scenic arts, music and cinema has not only enthralled professionals and the general public, but has removed Spanish taxation from many European countries, since only one third of the 28 states of the Union use the general type for shows and concerts, as collected in the report "The impact of VAT on performing arts, music and cinema", published by the Cultural Observatory. We believe that our culture should not be punished with respect to other countries around us, so the type of EVI should be located around the average type existing in Europe, be immediately placed in the low type – which is 10% at present – and keep the type of books and press in the super-reduced of 4%. We thought it would be a more sensible and necessary step. At this point in time, we have to ask ourselves why this measure has been produced by the sectarian effect, since it seems that this is the only reason why the Government doesn't give its arm to twist. I hope it's not for ideological reasons, because then this would already have a more dangerous charism. And, of course, as far as the collection is concerned, we have to say that according to the data from the Union of Business Associations of the Spanish Cultural Industry in 2013, during the first year of its application, the film and theatre sector has suffered a 30% decline in viewers, the largest in recent years, and, of course, has collected 22% less than the previous year. SGAE also found that since its application, the number of concerts in Spain has been reduced by around 22%, and after the closure of numerous rooms and promotional companies. It's true that we have to take into account, as the Cultural Observatory puts it, that other factors have also intervened in this situation, such as the impact of piracy on cinema, or the lower availability of the public to spend on the economic context of these years. But it's also true, and it's more than obvious, the harmful effect that has caused the rise of cultural VAT in a moment, besides, very difficult. It is also true that the 2015 SGAE yearbook gave us a little break with its 2014 figures, in which cinema increased its collection by 4.4%, attributed, in the said report, precisely, to the low price in the entries, of course! And also theatre for the first time in years has experienced an increase in the collection of 5.35%, but it doesn't happen the same with opera, dance or popular live music, whose activity was still 8.35% lower the year before. So figures are, on the one hand, still very precarious – in the case of cinema and theatre – and absolutely worrying in the other cases. The Socialist Party has always been against this measure, and the truth is, on the basis of insistence, that it has not been, so it is collected in our electoral programme, which is immediately reduced to 10%, and we ask that the process in the European Union be driven to harmonise a type less than 10, and that this happens when requesting authorization to reduce it to the over-reduced type of 4. That is what we are asking for once again in this initiative which we are debating here today. And we think this is a reasonable proposal, it's been for all these years, but it's just that it doesn't stand for longer. The damage is already irreparable, first because increasing the VAT in the middle of the recessive phase of our economy was a great clumsiness, since it helped to contract even more demand and fuel the recession itself, but in addition to doing so on such activities as cultural ones, which generally have a great sensitivity to changes in consumer income, it was even more clumsy, which has caused undeniable damage to the sector, and by extension to the whole economy. I know what the People's Party spokesman is going to say to me, it's not the first time we've talked about this, I know it's going to tell me that competition is state, I know it's going to tell me that VVI isn't the only measure that has harmed the world of culture. We agree, the cultural policy of the Union is also bad, too. But we've talked about this too. I know, too, that you're going to tell me that this is an electoral initiative, fruit of the electoral campaign, okay, say what you want, but if we're talking about it again today, it's precisely because nothing has changed, because the cultural IVE remains the same, and because in the midst of ambiguous statements by its directors, the fact is that the PP is the only party that doesn't undertake to lower the cultural IVE. And what's worse, he doesn't even think he should. So, beyond their considerations, let their posture be clear, even if after they do nothing, as always. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u119	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u120	Good morning, ladies. President, thank you very much. I find the People's Party bench very empty. Is something wrong? Was there any emergency? No, it's shocking how many people are missing. [[Murmurs.]] Well, this is just an incision in speech. Allow me. When in June 2012 the People's Party, already in the Government of Spain, adopted the measure, strongly challenged already at that time, of a new regularization of the VAT in order to increase the recording of culture, with a recalibration end and as a palliative measure of the economic crisis, made a serious mistake. It is an unfair, ineffective measure, a hard blow and a way of punishment in fiscal policy for cultural agents – by the way, very critical of the policies of the People's Party –. It is an unfair measure because its objective was not to harmonise types with the European Union; the contrast between Spanish cultural VAT and that of most European countries is at least offensive: France, 5%; Germany, 7%; Italy, 12%; Portugal, 13%; Ireland, 9%; Sweden, Finland and Greece, 9%; Austria, 10%; and Luxembourg, 3%. It is noteworthy that the case of Holland, with a 6% rate applied, this rate, after the protests of the cultural agents and of the Dutch society itself, which refused a record similar to Spanish. This increase in cultural IVE over the entrances of performing arts, music and cinema keeps Spanish taxation – and also the Galician – away from the European cultural IVE average, which is around 10%. It is therefore a discriminatory measure, which heeds and violates the principle of equity, the principle of equality. It's an ineffective measure, as I said before. From the first moment of its application, the following year, in 2013, according to data from the Union of Associations of the Spanish Cultural Industry, the theatre sector suffered a 30% decline in viewers and raised 22% less than in the previous year. And according to SGAE's data, the number of concerts in Spain has been reduced by around 22% after the closure of numerous rooms and promotional companies. It is interesting and interesting that one of the few changes in the standard as compared to the downgrading of the EVI is related to the market of works of art. Of all, it is known that it is a preferred market for drug traffickers and corrupters, which is supposed to be widely used for money laundering. Well, here they did take a fall from the IVE. On Tuesday, 18 November 2014, this honourable Member presented an initiative in committee calling on the Parliament of Galicia to urge the Government of Greece to call on the Government of the State to reduce the urgency of the VAT of cultural activities to 4%. It was rejected by the absolute majority of the People's Party. And this one that is debated here today, and which presents the PSdEG-PSOE, not specific or specific, is a little too generic. In spite of this, you will count on my support, because I share the spirit of it. Thank you very much, but nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u121	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u122	Good morning to all and to all. This initiative has been brought up, discussed, several times along this legislation in different formats. Because, in fact, during this second season of Feijóo's austere and media hell, we have experienced the consequences of disastrous policies on the safeguarding of Galician cultural piers, since budgets, with constant cuts pronounced, and then a freeze that leaves us with amputated limbs, irresponsible privatizations, such as archaeological parks, disloyance of cultural and natural heritage, which has been reinforced with the approval of the Cultural Heritage Act, which will further reinforce the slope in which we are immersed. And to this, logically, a policy that made the right of access to culture impossible. And so, for example, if we compare the data, it's only by looking at Europe's numbers, logically, it pales 21% of the VAT that we have for tickets to spectacular arts, music, cinema, which is fundamental because it feeds all the creative pole, from production to reception. In France, 5.5%; in Germany, 7%; in Luxembourg, 3%; in Holland, 6%; in Finland, 9%; in Greece, 9%; in Ireland, 9%; in Portugal, 13%. I mean, some accounts that go away from 21% where we're here. The consequences, from all reports that have been made public, have been evident. In the first year, a 30% decline in viewers and a 22% decrease in collection; and the number of concerts also decreased by 22%; and closing rooms. Therefore, loss of employment in the field of everything that supplies culture. There were several initiatives, you went ahead with the canon for lending books in libraries. So, all the consequences of this are that the spending on cultural housing in Galicia has been reduced by almost 30%, almost 30%. So that's having serious consequences. And this coincides, curiously, with the data we knew today through the study of a conservative trend foundation, the Fedea, which says that these types of taxes like the VVI only correct the inequality of income, because the poorest households in this country bear almost the same tax burden as the rich, as the rich. And the explanations come through social contributions and VAT. So logically, the EVI breaks the principle of equality, it's a regression tax, it's an insolidary tax, it penalizes the less favored incomes and, therefore, joins that policy of crisis-staff in which you have plunged us all these long years of government of Feijóo, in both seasons in hell. We hope to be able to emerge gradually from this hell and these freezings. And that is why, logically, we support the initiative brought by the PSdEG, because, in addition, what we would do would be facilitate and fulfil a constitutional and statutory mandate, which is to facilitate the participation of citizenship in cultural life. With your policies, you do not even comply with those letters that you defend, those principles that you defend. For example, you're going against a convention signed, the 2005 UNESCO Convention for Diversity. In the end, the objective, logically, of this measure was recapsory, although there are bad languages – or bad thoughts – that say you did so to punish a sector, the culture sector, which was eminently disobedient against the People's Party, against the right that you represent, and that is why you did so and subjected to a tremendously harmful economic punishment not only for the sector but for citizenship. I think they're bad languages, bad rumors, because you don't have that thought. You are simply technocrats and what you want, logically, is to liberalize everything at all, including the right of access to culture. And that's why you apply a few percentages that they do is seriously harming the rights of citizenship, such as the right to access and enjoy culture. That's why we support the PSdeG initiative, which we know is going to fall into a broken bag, because surely Mr Baamnde will come to tell us that everything is well done in cultural matters in Galicia during these last four years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u123	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I'm going to be rather brief, not by disregard of the initiative or because it doesn't seem – or it doesn't seem to us, from the BNG – important, but because I think it's basically almost all said. Clearly, there is a serious problem arising from the increase in cultural VTE. I'd say we're focusing on the cultural issue, which is relevant, because it has a greater impact on the fragility that, in addition, it has in Galicia, but at the same time what has to be questioned is the background of this policy, which is a policy in which the People's Party, which presents itself, elections after elections, telling the people who are going to lower their taxes, then in practice we see how when they govern what they do is just the opposite. Because with the governments of the People's Party we have not heard of requisition of anyone, of the ranks of the Government – absent – or of the MP's Members and Members, for what we have seen was how during these years the VAT rose in an absolutely disproportionate way. We went from a general HV of 18% to 21% and a reduced HV of 8% to 10%. A VlV that pays equal a stop or a stop than Amancio Ortega. And, of course, the ability to pay a stop or stop tax is not the same as Amancio Ortega. But that's the consideration the People's Party has for social justice, for equity, and for the conception they have of redistributive politics. So we understand that there is a need for a tax reform where the VAT has a smaller impact and other kinds of taxes, which, although they are more progressive, have a greater weight, and even we believe that we should open the debate on whether culture has to have VAT. Why do we have to pay VAT for access to culture when we are talking about a fundamental human right, a question, in addition, that from the point of view of personal enrichment and what it brings to a society in values, attitudes, and personal growth? why is it necessary to pay VAT for access to culture? I think that would be the first question. We have made it clear that the measures that have been taken have been regressive to culture, that the EVI has given it the point, in order to limit much the capacity of resistance, to the cultural sector at a time of economic crisis, which has greatly exacerbated access to culture and therefore continues to introduce discrimination where people with less resources are going to have less chance to go to cinema, to go to concerts, to buy books, that is, to do those things that are important in our lives as people. We, since the BNG, have shared this initiative, have also on occasion brought this debate to Parliament itself. I have to say, although we are going to vote in favour, we do not believe that the solution will come with a harmonisation of VAT in the European Union. We, of course, have never been Europeanpanatas and we do not believe that the solution will come from what can be said to us from the European institutions. However, our vote in favour is understood as a vote in favour of a measure we share, and it is necessary to end this abuse of the rise of an IVE which is limiting cultural development and limiting the right of access to culture. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and very good morning, gentlemen. It is true, as has already been said here, that this initiative has already come many times to this Parliament, to this plenary House, repeated times in the committee, and it is clear that the speakers are already in trouble to be able to bring arguments in their defence. It doesn't appeal to me to bring her back, because to her repetitive bluntness we're already used to. What attracts my attention is the reason they bring it right now. Let's see, it's true that the face of the Socialist Group has changed, there's nothing but looking at the front line of the bench to see it. That, by the way, the first – looking at there – that comes to my memory is what the wolf said in the new version of Capuchin Red: "Carai, as changed the story." Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Murmurs.]] And I don't say the original version because maybe the president takes me out of my ears. But what you're about to see is if that change is something deeper or if you're just going to stay where the new thing just serves to scream that the old one is obsolete. I hope that change goes ahead, but the truth is, in the presentation they just made of the initiative, it seems that we walk in the direction that that famous tourner said, "If it happens the same, it happens the same." [[Applause]] They actually bring a repetitive initiative and look, Mr Vázquez, you were talking about bringing it in at the time when the legislation ends. Look at one thing, long before Einstein had defined the universe as the axis of a set of space-times if you already knew or many people knew perfectly well that in all activities of life, but very especially in politics, you have to know how to measure the times. And the impression you're making is that they haven't made much progress yet. Of course, we are facing a state-owned competition initiative, and that's why the Central Government is urged to do so. But of course, Mr. Vázquez, if we're at the end of the legislation, if we're with a government in function, if we're with an election campaign that's going to start tomorrow, can you tell me which government we're going to urge? The truth is that you can do an exercise of imagination and you can open multiple hypotheses, but the truth is that all these hypotheses also have a common denominator, which is nothing other than insecurity and mistrust that currently transmits the Socialist Party. Let's see, Mr. Vázquez, those hypotheses. The first: if you ask for the support of the People's Party on its initiative, it's because they assume that from the 26th day the People's Government will rule in Madrid. I celebrate that shout of realism for once by the Socialist Party, but of course, with that you leave in the wrong place the hypothetical aspirations of Pedro Sánchez, to which they also force him to win the next elections to continue in office. We don't put anybody's duty on us, you do. [[Murmurs.]] There's another possibility. I'm more cautious, I admit the possibility that polls open another different scenario: they can govern other political forces that are neither PP nor PSOE. So, in that case, what do you, you, have, too, mistrust that these political forces that occupy the Government change the IVE? In that case, all the voices and voices who spoke here in the debate on this issue are in a bad place, because they all voted in favour of the amendment of the VAT. And there is an even more disturbing possibility, Mr Vázquez, that the Socialist Party should rule. And in that case, you tell me, do you also trust the socialists of Madrid? I, in your case, would certainly have mistrust, because accustomed as they are to go with those from the fair and come with those from the market, one more revolution, obviously, would not have much transcendence. [[Applause]] And, look, if what they really want to do is propaganda and get along well with the sector, then, man, it's better to refer to the electoral program and the electoral campaign to defend their own ideas. But, of course, in that case it also strikes you with a doubt: that maybe people don't listen very much or don't trust too much in their credibility. And with regard to the initiative, Mr Vázquez, you have already done my intervention. It is indeed a state tax and indeed that the cause of the culture crisis is not only that of the VAT. And, Mr Ron, we are neither bad nor liberal, all we do is try to ensure that all the Spanish economic and social sectors are supportive in the response to the crisis. In any case – and I'm done now, Mr. President – as circumstances have not changed, as all the speakers here said the same thing as we have said every time, as I could, and you too, Mr. Vázquez, commend me to Abel Caballero: "I refer to what I said at the previous conference; I refer to what I said earlier", here too we could refer to what we have already said and therefore in mere application of the criteria of the Rebus clause so standants, being all the same, we will maintain our negative stance. Yes, I exhort them to, indeed, carry forward the real change and not the cosmetic change. You're not left in what Johnny Hallyday used to sing: "Better loose, short ideas." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u127	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of both AGE, BNG and the Joint Group. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell you that the level of realization is that of our electoral program, as I said in the speech. I know that on the subject of figures we're going to agree, so what I was interested in here today was to know what the position of the People's Party was, which we already knew what it was, which is not. Mr. Baamonde, I appreciate your welcome, but I don't know if the new one is better than the old one; what I know is one thing, that you are obsolete, I have it very clear. [[Applause]] What we're asking you here is realization and commitment. I hope that you, besides whom to rule and make here a speech that has nothing to do with what we're talking about, have your own position, be whoever's in the Government; that's what we ask you to do. President Feijóo this morning I heard you had autonomy. That's what we ask you today, but I see that doesn't matter to you. I've told you many times that politics have consequences, and, of course, there are numbers. In the performing arts, downsizing functions and losing theatrical companies. In the book sector and libraries, we saw it just weeks ago: the alarming decline in the Galician and Italian edition, with spectacular falls in the public edition, which reached the lowest figures in the last decade. In libraries, we went from 550 to 497. In the audiovisual sector, in the music sector, true international referees of our culture, talk to the sector, see what they say, how they like funny things. At this point, you argue that culture is the last of your priorities already seems like a humorous exercise. If you know perfectly well, besides! In visibility, it is a relative budget, from 1,29 % in 2009 to 0,6 % referring to culture over the total budget at the moment. I don't know how to tell you that in culture this is no use in crop cutting. And since you guys like dating, I'm gonna give you one, too. There's a Winston Churchill sentence that can help you understand what we're talking about. During World War II he was asked to cut into culture to invest in war, and he answered that he was cutting into culture there would be nothing to defend. Well, that's the same, if we keep cropping we'll have nothing to recover, Mr. Baamonde. I already know that we're on an election campaign, of course, yes, that's why I want the highest priority on electoral matters at the state level to never be left in limbo again. It's important that we once again insist on lowering the IVE. We have already taken it in our program, our stance is clear: reducing cultural VAT to 10% so that it will stop being a luxury article and drive a process in Europe to harmonise a type of less than 10%. We have to be suspicious of your positions, if you have to understand! If we get rid of the hemerotheca, the truth is this is to go crazy: "PP promises to lower the cultural IVE to 10%, almost certainly," said the Secretary of State of Culture in 2015. "The PP has on the table the download of the cultural IVE," Andrea Levi, in August 2015. It must be a big table, because we don't know anything yet, and time has passed. "You won't change the cultural VE," Luis de Guindos the next day of Andrea Levi. And by the way, "Cultural IVE doesn't exist," Méndez de Vigo in October 2015. Well, if it doesn't exist, why announce they'll download it? I don't know what to stay with anymore. They'll understand once again that we ask them to stop taking our hair and, above all, that they stop taking their hair to the people of culture. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the problems arising from the launching of telematic notifications through the LexNet system in the Administration of Justice
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u130	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u131	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u132	Thank you, President. Good morning. Every now and then, not just by making artificial fires, as Mr. Feijóo does, remember the 78th Constitution. This Constitution, ours, says we live in a social and democratic state of law, and it's not anymore and it's something as simple as the prevalence of the principle of legality. That means justice is fundamental to the vertebration of this state, also to the vertebration of a modern state of law. And we are convinced from this PSdEG bench that it is now more essential than ever a pact for justice because there are many people who have problems and who can only solve their problems by going to justice, and justice needs reform measures; not those reforms that Mr. Rajoy has done precisely – since you are not being protected – and the People's Party at the moment, which is going to pass into history – President Rajoy – in addition to for little grateful things, by appointing the worst justice minister in the history of democracy in Spain, and also by deciding measures that have made it difficult, have bureaucratized and have done the most slow and inaccessible justice for citizens, such as those rates; those rates that you imposed on the physical persons, for the citizens on your feet, and that have made them change, since you, of course, have no protection from Madrid. But it is clear that, in addition to an imperative need for reform, justice needs means. There's been a precaution for many years. Justice is the poor cousin of all ministries; so much so is the poor cousin that his officials cannot use a Pilot pen but they had to ask for Bic pens because they were much cheaper. Law 18/2011, of July 5, regulating the use of information and communication technologies in the Administration of Justice, was one of the steps towards the modernization of justice. It regulated the electronic judicial record in Spain for the first time, and, being fair, it is necessary to say that it was José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, being socialist president, which approved that law. It's important because that law says that from January 1 this year, the notifications would begin through a computer, telematic system, which is the LexNet system. And it's important because between 2011 and 2016 – it's been five years – Mariano Rajoy – now in function – has been ruling for more than four years and nothing has been done. There is a lack of personal means, lack of material means, and perhaps, as we are told from the sector, there are so many incidences that a transitional period can be recommended in which the presentation, via the Internet, of writing, of notification of writing, of what is done through paper, basically because the correct one, the functioning of LexNet, is not yet correct. This is the chaos that the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in collecting precisely the demands of the sectors of justice, believes that follow-up committees should also be set up in each autonomous community, and also in Galicia, precisely in order to avoid endangering two fundamental rights, which are the right to effective judicial protection and the right to legal security. But what is most amazing is that the German Government seems to have no knowledge of this malfunction of the LexNet system, and precisely the amendment – as soon as I shall speak – that the People's Party presents goes on that line. The system fails on numerous occasions, often throughout the morning, which means that when a professional of justice is in the last term to answer a demand, to intervene a resource, the last day of time, if he hangs the system all morning and afternoon, he will not be able to present it, with the responsibility he can entail for it and with the lack of defense that he can involve for a citizen who accesses the last place where he can enforce his rights. Or, for example, that prosecutors have to wait in the afternoon to be able to do their job because they can't do it in the morning because the system doesn't work. Or that every writing takes 5 to 10 minutes to be included in this telematic system, because you have to include an index, the writing itself and the scanned documents one by one. And, be careful!, let's not be wrong to put the document name, because if the system does not cover the corresponding template, it does not accept it either. Or that the computer app hangs at 7 p.m., starting at 7 p.m., because the update of that computer program starts right from that time, and that doesn't happen from time to time but is daily, as they tell us. And it's important to remember that law of 2011 had a number of reasons: that everyone has the right to judicial custody and effective judicial custody of their rights before the courts, because it's a fundamental right. And to make it effective, it is essential that the Administration of Justice modernize itself because it is the way to improve the quality of our democracy, and precisely, in the 21st century in which we live, one of the most relevant elements of modern judicial offices is the implementation of new technologies. These new technologies would allow, allow, reduce the costs of the public service of justice, of course, no fees are added to physical persons and those that continue to exist for legal persons, and thanks to the use of precisely these new technologies the fundamental right to a public process without undue delay is updated. That's exactly why we put forward this non-law proposal. We know from January 2016 what problems there are in the world of justice with communication and reception of any type of notification, in writing, through this telematic presentation of the LexNet system. We therefore ask Parliament to urge the Board to establish a transitional period in which telematic presentation can be matched through LexNet and paper presentation, to ensure – or while not guaranteed – the correct and exact functioning of the LexNet system, and to establish a follow-up commission in Galicia to prevent these fundamental rights we spoke about, the right to effective judicial protection and the right to legal security. There are many issues that are unresolved, many of the daily problems that affect not only professionals, but that will affect citizens – I repeat – in the last Slav for the claim of their rights, which are the courts of justice. If you believe that we actually live in a democratic system that has to guarantee the principle of legality and law, we ask them to vote in favour of our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u133	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u134	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of us and to all of us at this moment in the House. I, who worked in a hospital, will say that in hospitals coffee time is done for shifts. Perhaps, in this Parliament we should also take turns to maintain a minimum of Members and Members in this House. Speaking of LexNet, in March 2015, the People's Party brought a non-law proposal to the plenary of this House that called for speeding up the implementation of the LexNet system, which it described as a secure information exchange platform between judicial officers, and then we talked about the problems of this system. The implementation in the LexNet Justice Administration for the submission of letters and documents, the transfer of copies and the conduct of personal communications to telematics media was regulated in Royal Decree 84/2007, which establishes a number of obligations regarding interoperability and security, which is especially important when it comes to sensitive information. LexNet incorporated into the beginning Windows components, which do not work on other platforms such as Mac or Linus, so most users are forced to use Windows, with the result of countless unlicensed revenues for Microsoft. Free software is not a whim of some crazy people, it's technological sovereignty for any country; it's a source of jobs and an R+D+i field of which Galicia cannot dispense. The obligation since January 1st to use legitimate telematic communications through the LexNet system is giving some problems to the justice staff, such as the short term to adapt to a system that was announced to them as an obligation in September last year, that desktop computers on occasion are obsolete to install the system or to cause conflicts with antivirus systems or with plug-ins, such as Java, which are updated at a pace that does not reach the LexNet system. The Magistrate, the Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General's Office are openly complaining about these computer applications that, in their judgment, as they work today, they only slow down judicial processes further. The Ministry admits that most of the problems have to do with the overload of the LexNet system in some time frames, as well as the slowness of the system when there is an overdemand of requests. The Minister of Justice in function, Rafael Catalá, defended a couple of months ago the creation of follow-up provincial commissions to detect problems such as the impossibility of returning written errors sent to an inappropriate judicial body, removing already downloaded persons, or distributing persons who do not have the assigned scroll yet, or the insufficient capacity of the tool, which only has 10 megas of storage, which means that if someone presents a written that is larger than that will not currently be collected by the system. The State Attorney General himself, Consuelo Madrigal, sent a letter to Catalan warning him that the system could not be implemented generally in all the state's judicial orders. The Attorney General thus informs the Ministry that he had decided to limit the implementation of the plan, that he would only implement it in some prosecutorial offices to facilitate a secure and orderly implementation of the so-called "paper zero" plan and that it will continue to be implemented according to the technical provisions of each autonomous community. The scanning program, which took place last November with the approval of Royal Decree 1065/2015, so electronic communications in the field of the Administration of Justice and the LexNet system are regulated, caused a funnel in the entry and distribution of proceedings. We will therefore vote in favour of this non-law proposal which seeks a rational incorporation of the LexNet system, controlled by a follow-up commission, which the Minister himself recommends. However, I am proposing an amendment to avoid Microsoft’s monopoly and to bet on free software, urging Junta to perform the necessary management to modify the LexNet platform within three months to comply with the legal obligation of interoperability and security, with the same ease for users of different computer operating systems. Even if the amendment is not accepted, we shall vote in favour of the non-law proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u136	President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs. Vilan, I congratulate you on your new position as spokesman. Perhaps I have to ask you for greater rigour in the presentation of these proposals, because what the Socialist Party brings to this plenary session is to urge the Union to set up a transitional period for paper and electronic communications and follow-up committees in Galicia. We cannot support this initiative as it is proposed because, first of all, you know that this is a competence of the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Justice, through the General Secretariat of New Technologies, is who is implementing the LexNet platform in all judicial bodies, and, secondly, because it would be as much as failing to comply with Law 42/2015, which obliges from 1 January that all professionals and offices that have not yet done so use telematics systems in communications. In his explanatory statement, in what he has just said in this plenary, it indicates that the platform has a lot of problems and that from 2011 until now nothing has been done, and calls on Zapatero. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that in Galicia, since the year 2009 a collaboration agreement had been signed with the Ministry of Justice, if you are working on implementing the LexNet platform, and it was a progressive implementation. In 2013 it was given the opportunity to submit tele-demands to those affected by the preferences, although it was not through LexNet, in 2014 it was implemented through LexNet the communications in all judicial bodies and in 2015 it was extended to prosecutors, lawyers of the Union, state lawyers, etc. We're not talking, therefore, of an imposition that survives without means, without anticipation, but that in the last six years in Galicia they've done up to 16 million telematic communications. Therefore, this transition time that comes to demand now – six months after telematic communications have been implemented – has already existed, and, in addition to the practice of many professionals, has accompanied the provision of material resources, but also the necessary training of officials. You invoke Zapatero, as always, but, look, things don't just have to be programmed, things have to be financed. The investment of 175 million euros in this government to facilitate the implementation of new technologies is a very important element for these types of modernisations. We want to highlight the efforts made by the Ministry, by the Council, especially by officials, and by all professional groups in this challenge, and that is why it goes from year to May 31 what is being filed telematically in Galicia is 50,000 demands and 500,000 written, and more than two million electronic notifications have been made. This realizes that we are faced with an innovation of a great magnitude, which is working, but which can give an impact. He just referred to some of them, as the subject of his release. Of course, it is planned, and we have a certification to believe that, indeed, during that time, something could not be presented. I invite you to consult the improvement plan that I work on the Ministry of Justice page, because here you are aware of all these improvements that have been implemented and of the incidences that have been corrected during these months, in addition to what is planned to be done. Therefore, it works in the purification of incidences and in the improvement of the platform. I think what they're proposing, that it's going to be going back to the role of telematic communications, it's not only a turn back, but it would make it difficult to solve these incidences, because it would even make it difficult to detect them, and I think that at this point it's quite consolidated. Therefore, we believe that only in the case of LexNet's failure to operate – and here, of course, legal certainty, the right to effective judicial custody – in that case only we would want or understand that it could be contemplated and valued the implementation again or the coexistence of both systems, so we present an amendment in that sense, which would have to be valued by the Government of the State. Also when you say that the Government of the Union doesn't know about these incidences, listen, that's not true, there are joint commissions that are working properly, according to my professionals, there are secretaries and permanent communication with provincial coordinators, and in addition to the Galician Union, it keeps working groups through Amtega to evaluate and coordinate the implementation of this platform. I just want to refer to that second point of the amendment, in which we say: listen, there is no need to create commissions that are already created, but what needs to be done is simply potential and to continue working on the resolution of those incidents. We expect them to accept our amendment. With regard to the amendment presented by the Joint Group and to the assumption that it had been accepted as well, I'm just going to point out that we believe this platform is interoperative. Who has to guarantee interoperability are the applications that connect themselves, so it's doing RedAbogacy and the board of prosecutors platform, and LexNet is also safe. So we don't share that amendment. But, ladies and gentlemen, by the end, I mean only that justice is usually represented with blindfolded eyes; what we cannot have is with our hands tied. What you're proposing is to go back, return to the cohabitation of paper with telematics. What we're all looking for is to take steps forward. We have to work to find an axil justice, an effective, efficient justice, a justice that is at the service of citizens, and that's all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u137	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u138	...we can do it by putting all the resources that new technologies allow us to be at the disposal of citizens and their service, which is ultimately what they are demanding of us. We therefore hope that they will accept our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u140	Good day again. This initiative, curiously, brings to mind the situation in which justice is at present precisely these days with the Law of Criminal Correction and with the end of the deadline. We're also talking about deadlines, we're talking about obligations, which are then impossible to fulfil, impossible to carry out, and also with dangerous aspects, because, as we say in some report or document, when LexNet is on standstill or not, the effective judicial custody in the state is stopped. Yes, when LexNet fails, the state's effective judicial custody is failing. There is a wide range of incidences, dangers, even the possible capital responsibility of the State for the irregular function of judicial services, and the AGE does not say, tell the experts, tell the responsible, tell the prosecutors, tell them those who live the chaotic and frenetic situation in which these rules dive when they are removed and taken out without material resources, without human resources, without funding and without the clarity of how the processes will work. That's why there are applications for suspension, applications for moratorium, or something that is also being majority, flexible, progressive and step-by-step implementation. And we have made it clear that citizenship cannot see at risk the rights of access to effective justice and judicial protection. Besides, there's something that worries, and it's the fact that the system is under the control of the Executive, the Ministry of Justice, when everyone says it should be under the control of the judiciary. Don't you? Don't you see it that way? Don't you see that the Executive controls the resources of the judiciary is an intrusion in the separation of powers? Do you think it's not an intrusion? For we have made it clear that it is an intrusion and that the judge is being absorbed in this case through the system, and the information that drives the system is being absorbed by the executive power. And we don't say it, tell it expert reports; we repeat, not AGE, it's in the reports. It is a serious situation that breach, that separation of powers, because – we repeat – it is very sensitive information to which it is under the control of the executive; therefore, the rights and principles of the judiciary are seen. And there are technical difficulties, apart from the tedious way of sending, which increase time rather than decreasing, curiously; if times are reduced, times are increased; yes, yes, yes, because there are many difficulties with electronic signatures. It's just that you think the whole system is a panacea, that all this works as a wonder. Before July 7, which was another date, zero paper, an absolute impossible! Besides, you're giving yourself a paradoxical fact, and you're spending more paper; you're producing an increase in paper expenditure. So we wonder what that "zero paper" is like in the end. How will it be possible to comply when there are no necessary material and personal means, if it violates the principle of technological neutrality, as they say, between LexNet of Justice and LexNet of Counsel, there are problems in the functioning of the notification system -- that is, a wide catalogue? I recommend you read it. I'm not an expert in the judicial system, but I'm reporting close to what you know. And it is necessary to resort to those who know, who suffer, precisely, the laws when they do not come accompanied by budgets. Evaristo Nogueira, Dean President of the Council of Law and Law, spoke: little information, little training; and asked for flexibility and investments in human and material resources. Evaristo Nogueira, not Xavier Ron. So, in order to alleviate inefficiencies, delays, insecurity, difficulties, etc., we hope that they will heed today's initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is curious how the Administration of Justice, which should account for the fulfilment of one of the powers of the State, enshrined in the Spanish Constitution, and which should guarantee the right to the exercise of all fundamental rights of citizenship – even if the right to effective judicial guardianship is collected in the Constitution – always, always has been, the poor sister not, the pauperrima sister of all public services in the Spanish State. The Administration of Justice has never been provided with the necessary resources to carry out its tasks with speed, promptness and thus ensuring a better exercise of rights by citizens. The successive changes that have taken place in the field of justice, with the aim of agitating and improving the provision of citizens, have always been fruitless, not surely due to the misconception of proposals or changes made, but because of the lack of resources for which these changes were made. Even a pact for justice, which was widely disseminated by majority groups in the field of state, was a new frustration for all justice operators and, of course, for citizenship, who hoped that in that way the exercise of their rights could be improved. Here in Galicia we have also seen, in addition, that in recent years the alleged improvement has also been used in the Administration of Justice in a very repeated manner, and specifically in the field of new technologies, in the field of equipping all the judicial bodies of Galicia with the necessary means to be able to incorporate into the so-called "Electronic Administration" or "Free Paper Administration." But after all these years, of all these supposed investments, of all the Senda plans, of all the plans of the Technology Modernization Agency, we have once again come to that last step that was taken in the Administration of Justice theoretically to lighten – to speed up, to improve the functioning of the Administration of Justice, especially in what is the relationship of the lawyers, prosecutors and, therefore, of their representatives with the Administration of Justice – not only did it not achieve that objective but, on the contrary, since it came into operation what it did was that problems had been raised. And, of course, I think the biggest finding that what Mrs. Vilán put forward in her initiative corresponds to the reality is both the amendment and the intervention of Mrs. Rodríguez and the People's Group. Because you are aware that through your amendment you are trying to put hot cloth on reality, in your amendment you are agreeing that there are repeated errors in the LexNet system, that the existing commissions have not yet been sufficient to respond to the problems that have been raised and that, of course, it is essential to substantially improve both the available means so that this can work properly as well as something that has been denounced by the trade union organizations that represent the workers and workers of the Administration of Justice, which is to equip staff with adequate training in the field of computer science and new technologies in order to solve the problems. Because here, of course, for the sake of propaganda and to say that we do a lot of things, we implement new systems without including the means necessary for these systems and material means to function properly or with the personnel properly trained to respond to that need, with the particularity that, indeed, as has already been said in previous interventions, in this case – in the case of the Administration of Justice – with which we are playing even less is with a fundamental right that citizens and citizens have, which is the right to effective judicial protection. So, I think the People's Party has just given us reason to all of us who have been reporting that this doesn't work properly, to all professionals, to all public employees who have been reporting this for a long time. That is why the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Vilán. Excuse me, please give a voice to Mrs. Vilan's chair. [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u144	Thank you, President. The first thing I have to do is thank the groups who are going to support this non-law proposal and tell the spokesperson of the People's Party that you all solve it with plans. And, in fact, you specifically spoke of the Ministry of Justice's improvement plan. Although there is less to be an improvement plan from the Ministry of Justice specific to this!, because you know – and you know well because it is professional of justice – that electronics does not work as it should work, you know it well – that I know you know it much better than I do, because you keep practicing your profession –; you know well that you do not invest in training for officials; you know well that the Prosecutor's office uses a computer system that is not what judges use and therefore you know it is not the same, that the Java application is not even compatible, that it is not even compatible, and that the Prosecutor's Office cannot use the LexNet system, the application, you know it well – so you know, everything that has to do with the Office's work is out of this application, and you know it is also that the Java application is obsolete, it does not even anybody, and it is precisely what you need to use –this computer application –justice; and you know well that the judges are printing through the whole system that informs you. All the officials are printing, all the judges are printing, and much more the prosecutors, who don't even have the computer system. So, the cost of paper and ink of the Administration of Justice right now is incalculable. By the way, it's very nice to talk about improvement plans, plans in general, if they don't materialize in practice. It would be nice if there were specific funding for this; there is no funding. It would be nice if you were to ask the Ministry of Justice for these €360,000 that tells the Ministry that it will give us for the collection of legal fees. It would be nice if they were to complain because we don't know where they are. We don't even know if it was more; you don't know either, the Director General of Justice doesn't know if it's been collected more or less, but if it specifically gave a digit, it was something more than 360,000 euros of collection of fees that we haven't yet. Well, it'd be nice to have them claim because the government is in office and we're in July practically and we still don't have those amounts in our power. They claim it and use it in financing, for example, the improvement – instead of a plan, you ask for money – of LexNet's computer application. It would be good if, in fact, since you in your amendment recognize that there are important problems with the use of LexNet's operation, you do not call for the empowerment of follow-up committees, but for the establishment of a specific follow-up commission for Galicia. And we also find it pink – with all my respect – the ridiculous request of the Government to value the establishment of a transitional period. But what valuation do you need? We've been applying for six months and the problems are so big that the judges themselves have to print on paper what they receive over the Internet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u146	That's the palpable test. And we can't accept the amendment because we think it's a little bit of a hairstyle, and we're not going to accept the Joint Group amendment because we understand that it doesn't improve enough what we ask. What is required in our non-law proposition is what the sector of justice demands, and you know it well. We therefore welcome the support and would like them to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and seven other Members, on the drive by the Government of Galicia for innovative public procurement in all the administrations of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u148	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u149	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. A few weeks ago, we knew that the Galician Union, through the Galician Innovation Agency, in the framework of the 6th National Congress on Innovation and Public Services, won the state prize for the best innovative public initiative, an issue in which Galicia is already a European reference; a award that recognizes the pioneering character of the project to implement a technological and industrial pole in Rozas allowing the optimization of a wide catalogue of public services through innovative solutions, as we were able to check the Members and Members on our visit last May 30th. A prize that represents effort and all the work well done in recent years, especially since the creation of the Galician Innovation Agency in 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative we are presenting today aims to focus attention on one of the instruments called to respond to the main challenges and social challenges present and the future. I'm referring to innovation, one of the pillars of R & D+i policy; innovation understood as the formula for finding new and better ways of doing things, which may well be by developing a product, service, production or construction process, as well as new marketing methods or new forms of organization. This is the importance that innovation is having in all the sectors of our society which has been incorporated into the new European public procurement directives adopted on 26 February 2014 as a new public policy, at the same level as the social or environmental level. In this way, both research and innovation, including eco-innovation and social innovation, are among the main drivers of growth, and occupy a central place in the Europe 2020 Strategy, where it is perfectly envisaged that all European public authorities have the responsibility to promote innovation when they produce and consume goods and services. To this end, they have an essential tool to stimulate new technological solutions, public procurement of sustainable and innovative goods and services, which, at the same time, without doubt, will help create jobs and increase the competitiveness of industry and Peme, as well as improving the efficiency and quality of public services; therefore, I refer to the known as innovative public procurement; a powerful and indispensable tool for consolidating research results, promoting innovation and knowledge transfer and ensuring that innovative ideas can become new products and services. In this way, administrations hire research and buy innovation, and they can do it, essentially, through pre-commercial public procurement, which is a contract of services, research and development, which is entirely paid by the contracting entity, characterized by the fact that the public buyer does not reserve the R & D results for its own exclusive use, but rather shares them with companies, both the risks and the benefits of R & D necessary to develop innovative solutions that exceed those available in the market – in other words, someone has an idea and pays him to try it, whether it works or not, or through the public purchase of innovation, a procedure in which the procurement of a supply over the design of a specific project that is proposed from the contracting party. I mean, if you're able to make a certain prototype, you're required, for example, 100 units. Your Honor, I would like to point out that innovative public procurement can be carried out at any level of the Administration, both state, autonomous, provincial or local, which develops precisely public procurement processes, and can also understand from simple performance to more complex contractual procedures. Another aspect to be highlighted is that throughout the process and in the different phases of the projects communication and transparency are essential elements, since the benefits of public purchasing of innovation are only achieved with a high competition from economic operators to procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, although we may be used to listening to opposition groups always speaking negatively, we have to say that Spain is a leader in Europe and is being able to create the necessary ecosystem that promotes research and innovation. As pointed out in a recent report by the Cotec Foundation, in recent years Spain has made an important legislative effort to facilitate the use of public purchases of innovative solutions; proof of this is the inclusion in the Public Sector Contracts Act of competitive dialogue procedures and also a new modality of contract and public-private collaboration for the public purchase of innovative technology. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the innovation policy in Galicia for the period 2014-2020, being coordinated by the Galician Innovation Agency, was established in the Strategy of Smart Specialization, known as the RIS3, a document that has already collected a specific instrument of action to support innovative public procurement. This document also usually includes some opposition groups who despise it, underestimate it and even mock it, despite the fact that it has been developed with great participation and transparency by over 240 innovation agents, covering more than 25,000 questionnaires, and by professionals and collectives in the different sectors of Galician production, both public administrations, educational and research institutions, as well as companies and citizenship. If in the European panorama Spain is being a leader, Galicia has been one of the pioneer communities in incorporating in its legislation legislation and impulse measures for innovative public purchasing. In addition to this, it must be said that it did not just stand in theory and that Galicia actually constitutes a referent in the development of innovative public procurement projects that managed to raise funding from Feder funds and that in some cases even got recognition of the good practices used. In addition to the award I mentioned at the beginning of the intervention, Sergas also received the National Innovation Prize in 2013, awarded by the Ministry of Economics and Competitiveness, which was the subject of recognition at the European Observatory on Health Projects. Therefore, collaboration and dialogue with public entities and bodies wishing to tender through innovative public procurement procedures were key to act as a catalyst and to achieve co-financing with Feder funds managed by the Ministry of Economy for proposals incorporating innovation in their recruitment demands. From this work, during the economic period 2007-2013, funding was obtained to develop several innovative public procurement projects, such as Hospital 2050 and the Innova-Saúde Project; the Laser-Pet Project, of the University of Santiago; the A-Tempo Project, of the University of Coruña; Tactics, of the University of Vigo; or Smart City, in the Town Hall of Coruña. Together, these innovative public procurement initiatives mobilized about 120 million euros. But, without a doubt, the star project that received all the congratulations and recognitions was the Alliance of Galician Union with Inaer and Indra for the creation in Rozas of an industrial and technological reference pole on unmanned planes for civil applications. This process, in which the Union has also expanded its initial bet from 25 million to 40 million, is completed with another innovative public purchase, which will invest 20 million in new but already developed technologies, and also in the implementation of unmanned aircraft and a wide range of public services. The award-winning initiative not only highlights its pioneering character, as it explores unprecedented formulas within the framework of innovation demanded by Spanish public administrations, but also by the joint effort of six advisors to design the catalogue of services to citizens in whom the Union seeks to be excellent through innovation. Therefore, contact with other public and private institutions that have similar needs can be very valuable in developing this type of process. Even so, the previous study of the market and technology is essential to implement this type of contract file. In addition, we have to add that academic and vocational training will also benefit from the expansion of the specialized education offer. The Mercedes CEIP, in Lugo, will be responsible for imparting the first cycle of Aeromechanic maintenance of Galicia; a training project very linked to the plane wagering of the Union in Rozas, and the university will be the point of launch to lead the aeronautical city by putting in place the next course of the aircraft engineering qualification on the Ourense campus, to which we can add the I Master of Engineering, Structures and Aerospace Materials of Galicia, which has just launched the University of Coruña. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is doing everything in its power to have a system that favors innovation, but, far from conforming, we have to keep moving forward in a matter that evolves at great speed and, of course, achieve as many funds as possible because, if we don't, unless Galicia does, if it does not, it will make other autonomys and other states of the European Union. And so we have to keep working, we still have to be the necessary partner of the Greek companies, so they can advance in innovation. The People's Parliamentary Group therefore wanted to bring us to this debate and would like to urge the Council of Galicia to continue to promote public and innovative procurement in all the Greek administrations as a measure to promote the improvement of public services and to exercise a tractor effect of the innovation of business fabric in the centres of Greek knowledge. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u151	Thank you, Mr. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u152	Intervention of parliamentary groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Noela Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u153	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, if I didn't know we were today in June 2016, I would think you just arrived at the Government, but it's been four years in the Government of Spain and almost eight in Galicia. You mentioned the success of some innovation projects. I am curious that you, as to the Government, had not given a national innovation award for that electric car factory that was going to be set up in Ourense; a car factory that would generate 1,030 jobs and a car factory that would have the support of Mr. Feijóo's government, with an investment of more than 11 million euros. Good luck, Mr. Blanco Paradello! Of course, being a Member of Ourense, I didn't think you'd forget that. Another success is also the government's spending on R+D+i, 0.87% of GDP. I would remind Professor Losada in this gallery that this data is at the levels of Turkey and Ukraine, but now Turkey is past us, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, 1.01% European success is so great that the European average is around 2%, and all countries tend to converge towards the Europe 2020 target, which is 3%. In fact, its objectives are so ambitious that the strategic plan that has just been adopted recently covers 1.5 of GDP. In this scenario – and with all the respect you know that I have – it seems to me that a tremendous political cynicism comes here to say that it proposes this measure to promote the improvement of public services. It is precisely what the group says that holds a government that is dismantling, since it arrived, the whole audience, Mr. Blanco Paradelo. I wonder, what do you think researchers and researchers who are listening to them right now – those who have had to leave our country's knowledge centers, laboratories, to, at best, transfer their knowledge to other countries or be working away from our borders at bars in London or Berlin – Mr. Blanco Paradelo? And all this because of you, a 10% replacement rate that prevents them from working in our country. Of course this is not strange to me because, after listening to Mr Feijóo today, he misses the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for being a new woman, and says that this is not a nursery, which is a parliament, surely no one misses the disrespect that they still have towards youth. What do you think they'll think of listening to you say that innovative public procurement is the tractor of innovation? What tractor? I wish we were at the speed of a tractor, although we were slow, but the R+D+i is going, in this country, like the crabs, backwards. Well, with this initiative we run the risk that innovative public procurement is used as an excuse for contracts to amicables. Not even if you pick up a grouping on the Public Procurement Platform of all contracts made in this modality, you have to go and look at one by one, which means a tremendous lack of transparency. This may also imply the definitive waiver of research for the benefit of the private sector, even though it is continuing in this disastrous framework that you have created for R & D+i where we have been located in recent years. That is why the Socialist Group, in view of this proposal which is completely empty of content, tabled an amendment calling for a concrete commitment, the commitment to try to reach 2% of GDP in investment by 2020. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u154	For the Mixed Group, Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u155	Thank you, President. We are before a new proposal not of the People's Party law; therefore, before a new proposal not of empty law of content and before a new proposal not of pre-election propaganda law. If, according to the Galician People's Party, you don't stop saying that Galicia is the innovative public procurement champion, primarily in health care, I don't understand why they need to urge the Government to put the pillars on this issue. If we're the champions, I don't know what they want, what else they want! The so-called innovative public procurement only responds to a strategy designed from the European Union, controlled by the lobbyies of multinationals. Thus, health finance research and the purchase of goods and services to private companies; that is, the public system renounces research for the benefit of the private sector, which provides with public funds the opportunity to use their hospitals, their health centres, their health workers and health workers and their own sick people for, for example, clinical trials of new medicines. In addition, the Administration guarantees multinationals the purchase even before the products are released and allows companies to decide on the characteristics and volume of the innovations to be bought with public money through the figure of the technology partner. In commercial purchases, the Health Administration buys something that does not exist, but can be developed through an R & D that is paid by the contract. Private companies selling technologies thus impose on the administration to be bought and the price to be paid; lies that, with the argument of the crisis and the insatiability of the public system, served to disuniversize health, introduce payrolls and cut the portfolio of services. The savings achieved through austerity finance business projects that benefit exclusively technological multinationals. As stated in an article by Manuel Martín García, President of the Association for the Defence of Public Health, this policy implies the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy defined by the European Union, which approved a development plan for improving the competitiveness of the European Union for the period 2000-2010, which had as one of its priority objectives to increase public procurement opportunities by private companies, giving them access to public budgets to improve their business opportunities. In this way, a substantial part of public health money is passed to multinational companies. The foreseeable consequences are the decapitalization of public health, the looting of public money for multinational technology companies, the abandonment of community health, based on promotion, prevention and primary care, the return to the central hospital model and the intensive use of technologies for its high cost, which will not be accessible to all citizens. That is, with innovative public purchasing euphemism, what is being supported is the creation of a great business for multinationals working in health technologies and a great discrimination in the use and application of those technologies among the population. We will therefore vote against this non-law proposal. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u156	Mr Vázquez Díaz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u157	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all and to all. The truth, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, was expecting such an initiative after the visit to Rozas; it was quite predictable. I didn't think it was going to touch you, in this case, the role of defending such an initiative – let's say – lacking substance like the one you brought to this House. Innovative public procurement is one of the new mantras of globalized capitalism inspired by the European Commission's forum of opinion and assumed in a critical way by the governments of the People's Party. And I don't misunderstand myself, please don't want to carry out a simplistic analysis of the mechanisms for boosting innovation through public purchasing of technology or innovation; nor would I want to deny a priori the possibility that a government has to take advantage of European funds and European strategies to improve public services or advance and develop R & D+i policies. That's not what we want. What we want is to translate the beautiful rhetoric of competitiveness and the promotion of the innovative markets of the People's Party. What does that mean? What is the translation of this beautiful rhetoric in Galicia? What's behind this innovative public purchase in our country? For innovative public procurement in our country has two models clearly defined and referred to in its initiative: on the one hand, innovative public procurement in the field of health and, on the other hand, innovative public procurement of the drone base in Rozas. You mix public procurement with innovative public procurement, and these are different issues – it is appropriate to clarify it. The two paradigms, from our perspective, are examples of ineffectiveness and inefficiency in the management of public resources; two models of procurement and public procurement where the Greeks put resources and companies raise profits without creating wealth in social terms; that is, improving public services or creating jobs. They would be both terms in which we could take on a contribution from this kind of mechanism. In the health issue we start from Vigo's public-private collaboration model as a great paradigm and that in practice will involve the privatization of the hospital, which will cost 1,400 million euros in the next 20 years, when its real value of construction was 320 million. By the way, a succulent business of managing public services to private companies is guaranteed. This is the reality, the model of public-private collaboration at Vigo hospital is a model of privatization, we don't disguise reality. We have other examples, in the field of innovative public procurement and in the field of health, such as the capture of technological partners for the purchase of machinery and sanitary instruments, mainly benefited in the case of Philips and Varian, and that they also assume not only the development of this machinery, but its management and subsequent maintenance. So a new way to privatize public services. We have the case of the privatization of electronic revenue, also handed over to a company, or to the clinical history, delivered to Indra as well, and which serves as a bridge to enter the second of its examples, which is the example set here in value of the industrial pole of Rozas, that we visited, as I said at the beginning, last week; a centre where the Galician Union invests nearly 60 million euros in installations that are not owned by the Union, but by the Ministry of Defence; facilities where multinational arms companies, such as Cassidian, develop a military drone, the Atlantis, which is part of the strategic plan to acquire the Ministry of Defense and where the Army tests its drones, the drones search, in those facilities. But, in addition, in that recruitment process, they deliver 25 million euros to two companies, Inaer and Indra, mentioned earlier, in theory with an expected social benefit of job creation. Together puts the media on, the board packs installations that aren't its own, and companies take the benefits. Will social wealth be employment? Well, we can check it out. Featured members of the People's Party were there last week on a visit to Rozas. In theory, at this facility there were 60 engineers doing important work, moved from Madrid. Of course, they weren't German engineers. There was nothing left there, there were no tables, there were no computers, there was no paper. They left and there was no record of their work. Yes, there are two people in charge of opening and closing the door. And that's a model of public-private procurement. In theory, companies will make airplanes, but Indra isn't dedicated to building airplanes, installing electrical systems. And in theory, they're going to create jobs, but Indra just made an ERE of 2,000 workers, and these companies give them 25 million euros. And what's the state...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u159	...of the bodies dedicated... – finished, Madam President – to research in Galicia? What's the status of the CSIC? Absolutely no funds and no staff resources. What is the result of Cetal in Lugo? Absolutely paralyzed. What is the state of the Mabegondo Agrarian Research Centre and Junta competition? No resources and no means. What is the state of public investment in innovation in Galicia? The tail of Europe in the country it is, the tail of Europe. 0.87%, almost half the European average. What is the reality of numbers? That they're putting an end to our innovation system and our technology system, because tech companies have dropped exponentially in our country. So we are not going to support this initiative because it is a clear way of delivering the niche of our country's future, which is innovation and technology, without a doubt, to hands of merely private interests. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u160	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u161	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A law of innovation and research, the creation of an innovation agency, appearances at the top and commission of RIS3, a lot of language creation, a lot of semantic turns and little innovation, as data shows. Indeed, the expense of R & D+i, as has just been said, to the queue of Europe; to the tail of Europe, that is the reality and that is the balance that Mr Feijóo can make. At the European queue, at the state average queue, which is 1.23%, and at Galicia, at 0.87%. But we want to remember that in 2008 it was 1%. In these years called crisis, what did Mr. Feijóo's government do? Not to bet on innovation, but back off. But it is also true that in these months much has been said about innovation, much is brought to this House the supposedly innovative policies, such as this case, innovative public procurement, to talk about the privatization of health or, in this case, about Rozas. But I wanted to bring another example, for not repeating myself also with the voices and voices that preceded me in the gallery: the contract with Microsoft, the contract of a month ago with Microsoft. In fact, you're buying a 6000 computer macro contract, which is going to be like 4 million euros without IVE, but the important thing is that these computers have to have Windows installed. Question: where is the non-private software, the one that really allows innovation? It's something very important and it gives, in addition, employment to so many young people companies in our country, like the one who bets on the development of non-private software. That's what we're... When we saw this initiative – which, in all respects, is very much in line with what the People's Party has presented to us in recent months – the first question is: why are those projects based on free software, which lead innovation, such as for large data centres, cloud computing, mobile application, have been banished from these possibilities in the recruitment, in the public purchase done by the Government of Greece?, by seeking a counter-example to those who are already constantly repeating us about the aeronautic pole or about the field of health, where, by not repeating myself, it has already been explained how it is used so that private companies can do research by minimizing their risks and taking on those risks from the administration. That is why the data we have on investment in both GDP and per capita R & D, where we are back in line, that is, 174 euros per capita, compared to 211 in 2008 or 276 euros on average in the state. The R & D+i data that leaves Mr. Núñez Feijóo after eight years are regrettable. And it's also regrettable that innovative public procurement is being brought about as a big window, when in computing matters or in issues, for example, like what I put on the table, if you keep betting on large multinationals and you keep betting on private software. We are not going to support this initiative either. We believe that it adds nothing to what has been said about RIS3, of all the propaganda that has been made about innovation and research. It's the researchers themselves, the researchers themselves, who have been manifesting for the past four years how research policies have been abandoned. Because there can be no innovation, no matter how hard the Greek Government is, if there is no real research at all by supporting universities and research centres. Innovative purchase is a model of purchase, actually, but it's not the bet on research. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Interventions were predictable, they were predictable because they always use the same style: they take advantage to make a generalised criticism of R & D+i policies without focusing, in this case, on one of the parts that was innovation. I'll start by answering the Socialist Party's voicer first, as you presented the amendment. Tell you, Mrs. Blanco, I see you with great strength. After that leap you caught in three rows, Mrs. Vilan must be worried if she leaves the seat empty for a long time, she is very concerned if she leaves the seat empty. [[Applause]] You used to say that you made the Government of Greece that seems to have arrived at the government... on, because look, while you were in the usual trouble all this time, because the Government of Greece has put in place many projects: as I told you, Hospital 2050 and the Innova Saúde project – which, of course, we have to thank you for what was the socialist minister, Mrs. Garmendia, who wanted to sign this agreement with the Government of Galicia's board despite the pitfalls that they wanted from the Socialist Party of Ourense and the honourable lady of that time, Laura Seara. And I also want to say that through RIS3 many projects have been put in place like I told you: the A-Time project at the University of Coruña, the LaserPET at the University of Santiago, the ICT TAC at the University of Vigo, the Smart City in Coruña – which, of course, the Government of the Tide has now stopped – a project that has also received a lot of congratulations. Investments of nearly 140 million are being supported in these initiatives. Tell you that your amendment, as it is drafted, I cannot accept it, if you want we can try to trade and I'm going to tell you why: because the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 sets a target for 2020 a expenditure that amounts to about 1.7 % that is going to improve about 8 tenths of the data of the year 2014 and double the current expenditure, so if you want, I'm willing to come up with a transaction. I also want to tell you that, according to the European Union, one country, and already in R & D, when two thirds of innovation is done by the private sector and one third by the public sector, something that in Spain only happens in the Basque Country. Spain invests more than Germany in public R & D but only four German companies invest 16. billion euros, invest more in R & D than the whole of Spain, which is 13. billion euros while private companies are 7. billion. What was Deputy Director of Development and Innovation of the Ministry of Economics, Luis Cueto, said that the best partner of the Ministry in innovative public procurement had been, and still is Galicia, and that the most important project that had been done until now was Hospital 2050. I have to tell the other groups, but especially Mr Vázquez, that you are against everything: they are against the thermal power plant of the bridges, the Reganosa, the Meirama, the Cintroën, the Encen, the Abanca, the Navantia, the naval contracts with... of Saudi Arabia, that is yes, but Mayor Kichi, in Cadiz, votes in favour of the contracts of the military corvetas, even though you're not here. They're against the marine wind, they're against Index and they're against Rozas as well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u164	Quiet. Quiet, please. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u165	Yes. Look, with our visit to Rozas, I'm going to tell you what happened to him, you're sure you know Mario Benedetti's sentence: "When we thought we had all the answers, they suddenly changed all the questions." And of course, you were there and while you were talking about going...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u167	...–Yes, finished, finished already – generate 600 jobs, that would be 18 companies and all the innovative projects... of course, you were mounting your number with the Euro MP who had to come and look for the troops and tanks that did not appear. And of course, I'll tell you to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u168	Finish, please. And about the amendments, about the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u169	... – Finished, finished already – the concept of innovation is very big, especially those who defend communist ideology. Communism and innovation are completely..., it's something opposed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u170	The amendment, the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u171	I have already told the Socialist Party that as drafted we did not accept it, if you want to trade it, it offers a transaction. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u172	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the Armenian genocide
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u173	This motion for a non-law has been amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u174	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u175	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. For decades, anywhere in the world where an established Armenian community exists, every 24 April, one and a half million Armenians and Armenians slaughtered by Ottoman Turkey are remembered. I present today this GNP before the Galician Parliament, excited by the requests made by the small Armenian community that lives on our land and, also, because it is a moral debt that this Parliament recognises the Armenian genocide, as it does every year with the victims of the Nazi holocaust and other peoples such as the Palestinian and the Saharawi people. It also drives me the intolerable pressure exerted by the Turkish Government on the adoption by the French National Assembly of a law to condemn the denial of this crime against humanity. An organized form of extermination of a nation or ethnic group is known by genocide with the explicit aim of putting an end to its collective existence. It is the Armenian genocide, a historical fact scientifically proven by numerous witnesses and documents and also by the warning, already in May 1915, by the United Kingdom, France and Russia, the Government of the Turkish Youth, that their actions against the Armenian people would make them responsible for crimes against humanity. In the esters of the Ottoman Empire, the Government of Turkey was in the hands of the Turkish youth party. Taking advantage of the context of World War I and the objective of the creation of a new Turkish Empire, from Anatolia to Central Asia, inhabited only by a purely Turkish population, on the night of April 23, 1915 and all morning of the 24th, the process of extermination of the Armenian nation began. Hundreds of intellectuals, hundreds of liberal, religious and prominent Armenian-born workers were arrested, stripped of their homes and properties, immediately deported and subsequently executed. Between 1915 and 1918 the Armenian people were subjected to deportation, expropriation, kidnapping, torture, killing and hunger. Thousands of women and girls were kidnapped and brutally abused and all the heritage wealth of the Armenian nation was expropriated. After less than a year of truce, at the end of World War I, atrocities against the Armenian people were resumed between 1920 and 1923, again being victims of massacres and expulsions. The Armenian genocide was over one million five hundred thousand victims of the Armenian population in the Ottoman Empire of two million at the beginning of World War I. The massive, planned, selective character of these massacres shows that what happened at that time with the Armenian people is genocide, as envisaged by the United Nations Convention for the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide in 1948, and the European Parliament resolutions in June 1987, February 2002, April 2004, and last April 2015, coincided with the centenary of the beginning of the extermination. The first resolution, held in 1987, laid the basis for several European states, in numerous parliaments, to recognize Armenian genocide as such. Germany, the other day, Belgium, the Netherlands, Cyprus, France, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland and the Vatican State, this in Europe. Others outside the European region, 40 and three out of the 50 states of Argentina, Canada, Chile, Russia, Uruguay and Venezuela. As far as the Kingdom of Spain is concerned, although the Spanish State has not yet done so, the autonomous parliaments of Navarre, the Whale Parliament, the Basque Parliament, the Catalan Parliament and the Aragon Parliament have done so. I am presenting this GNP for your debate and, if so, your approval, because a genocide of such magnitude cannot be denied, nor can it be, nor should it be forgotten. So that the victims and their descendants will receive justice and reparation and because the forgetfulness and denial of these facts can be the argument for others like that. On August 22, 1939, Adolf Hitler, gathered with his soldiers, expressed as justification for his own crimes that: Who remembers today of the annihilation of the Armenian people? I am also presenting this GNP to promote a common position on this subject, because it seems to me that the Galician Parliament must comply with the resolutions of the European Parliament and with the democratic states that recognize the extermination of the Armenian people as genocide. And, too, it would be a gesture of solidarity and support for the intellectual sectors of today's Turkey, Europeanist and advanced sectors of today's Turkish society, since the recognition of this genocide was subject to many and many of them judicial proceedings under the charge of insulting and denigrating Turkey. So it happened to them at the Nobel Prize in Literature Orhan Pamuk, writer Elif Shafak and journalist Hrant Dink, murdered by a fanatic. Historical recognition of crimes of this nature is essential so that they are not forgotten in anticipation of the recidivism, for the reparation of the victims and their descendants, because it reaches all mankind, so I look forward to their approval by the whole of the Members of this House. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u176	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u177	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. This is a dramatic issue of what has just been a century ago and meets the characteristics of the definition that the United Nations made in its day of genocide because it contains all the elements that come into that definition. Mrs Iglesias said: to destroy a national, ethnic, racial or religious group in whole or in part; and it also has four sections in which it specifies the extermination of members of a group, a serious assault on the physical and mental integrity of members of a group, a deliberate submission of the group to conditions of existence which may result in their physical, total or partial destruction, measures to prevent births in a group and the transfer by force of children and members of the group that they wish, in some way, to exclude and in this case, by violent methods. Unfortunately, in the history of humanity, there have been such terrible acts as this that we are debating here today. Some are very obvious, and possibly if Nazi Germany had not systematically committed, programmed and, in addition, with such a characteristic efficiency of the Germans against the Jewish people, possibly not even if they had dealt with all these issues; and, as some argue, the facts that we are discussing here today, perhaps remain confined to a more war action, but a more war action does not imply moving to a whole population or a given territory and, by action or by default, here the figures vary and we can be talking – then I think all studies confirm it – of more than one million people, people who are not combatants, where men, women and children, elders, and where all kinds of circumstances occur to eliminate a set of population, in this case of population that lived in the old territory of the Ottoman Empire. Mrs Iglesias said: here there have been agreements in many countries of the world, in many territories, the most recent of all is what has to do with the German Parliament, and also with unanimity – I believe there was only one vote against – in a country where the presence of the Turkish community is very important and where economic, cultural, political ties, interests of all kinds, condition and strongly frame the political relationship between Germany and Turkey. We must not forget that not long ago we reached agreements led by Germany, precisely so that Turkey would take care of some of our shames as Europeans. We tabled an amendment. The amendment did not contradict, for nothing, what Mrs Iglesias has said here, what she does is to smooth the language, and to do so in accordance with the agreement of the European Parliament. Why? Because I also tell you that personally it seems so unfair to make the new generations of Turks responsible for the crimes and atrocities of the Ottoman Empire a century ago, as if today we asked the new generations of Germans what happened, in the middle of the last century, by Nazi Germany. And it is also our obligation, to lay bridges to, in the same philosophy of the agreements that have taken place in 2.009 in Zurich, to do a study – as we agreed to create a Commission – to study history, all the elements that have happened in those terrible events and for the treatment, the relationship, the empathy between current Turkey and current Armenia, I don't say it deletes because this is impossible, to erase those atrocities, but at least, as we have done in Europe too, as we have done in South Africa, as we have done even in Rwanda – which is a classic model of all this – if you can at least get to live with some of the guilt – if you still have it – others with its complex, and others, to assume your own history. We, ladies and gentlemen, agree absolutely on the substance and practically ask for the same, we use another language, because in international relations the words also make sense, because there are many interests of all kinds between countries, and we also propose that it be the European Union – as it was on its day –, which guarantees and promotes the agreement signed between Turkey and Armenia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u179	...to start the path of reconciliation, to establish relationships and to place the problem in a context and in a historical framework which I believe today is overcome by history itself but which, however, continues to affect many thousands of people, and which continues to cause immense pain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. For the Galician People's Group, Mr. Trenor López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u181	Ladies and gentlemen, my group, and I think that all of the Members here, we want the approach between the Armenian and Turkish peoples with the aim of normalizing their situation, because today there are two peoples, two border countries that have been facing more than a century. The People's Party condemns and solidarity with the thousands of victims and their families who suffered the atrocities and massacres, now 101 years ago, in the time of the Ottoman Empire. We want a sincere dialogue between Turks and Armenians, to plan for a common future that will finally allow this tragic chapter of its history to be closed, starting from the maximum that injustice and tragedy can only be overcome with respect to international law and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, my group has taken this initiative, an amendment where we are asking for compliance with the Zurich protocols and we want Zurich protocols to be complied with because we believe that this is the way to approach these two peoples. It is an amendment that I do not contradict, for nothing, what Mrs. Churches said – and neither did what Mrs. Soneira said – because beyond the debates of competences – that you know we do not have them –, beyond the semantic debates – of which I have no doubt – beyond the historical debate – that we do not belong to, and the historians have already admitted their verdict, and beyond the legal debate – that we are neither judges nor have to be. There is political debate. Your Honor, and as I have told you before, the important thing if it is politics, we must make it clear that politics must ultimately solve problems through a democratic process, solve citizens' problems. And in this case, the best way to help is to bring these countries closer together, to promote the restoration of diplomatic relations. That's why we register our amendment, in order to encourage the approach between two peoples through the Zurich protocols. This approach began in October 2009, after almost a century Turkey and Armenia signed – accompanied by the main heads of world diplomacy: there was Solana, there was Clinton, there was also Serguéi Lavrov – in Switzerland, a historic agreement to put an end to a century of hostilities, a century away that kept the wound open; and finally, Turkish and Armenian foreign ministers signed a pact with the aim of establishing diplomatic relations and the opening of the common border. But it is true that, despite this well-intentioned firm, this agreement faces difficulties: on the one hand, the correction by the respective parliaments dominated by nationalism and, on the other, by the rejection of Armenian diaspora influence with the memory of massacres and deportations. To provide solutions to these difficulties, a joint commission of historians was asked to carry out a scientific and impartial examination of the archives and documentation on those events. Now if you knew that the ratification process would not be automatic, that the great opposition in both countries made you think it wouldn't be a quick process, and then there was still the application of these protocols. First it had to be rectified by parliaments and then it was still necessary to execute those protocols. But these difficulties were already known, President Clinton had already warned, and the Spanish Government was also aware of that, which was the Socialist Party, and the agreement, in addition, was concluded because it was a good news. The current government also believes that further progress must be made on this line because it is a policy of state, of government and of another, seeking the diplomatic approach and understanding of two governments, that the two countries go in that direction, without interference and without pressure, and that Armenia and Turkey move on in the way of dialogue, and we understand that this is the right way. And the international community, the member states, even the autonomous communities, to a far lesser extent, yes, we can help by maintaining the position of the state, of the former Government and of the present one, advancing and promoting an approach between the two countries, and supporting a dialogueal solution to this conflict. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Trenor. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u183	Well, good day again. We are talking about a very important initiative. It's about not being indifferent to the organized genocide of cultures and peoples, because remaining indifferent would be an ethical crime without a comparison. You have to stand up and take sides. That of playing on two sides as happens between Morocco and the Sahara, sometimes it's not possible and not to repeat, you have to know, and to know you have to have education, education and, sometimes, know where they come from, why things happened and why they're still happening. Because Turkey – however much it wants to camouflage reality – remains the country with more calls for human rights violations for the Kurdish people, it remains there. And also, in fact, calls for attention for Syrian refugees crossing their borders, even with dead people... Turkey is not a safe country despite this EU-signed troupe: the treaty for mass expulsion and deportation to refugees. And there's a past, that past clearly tells us what happened since 1880, because in 1880 there were two billion Armenians in the Ottoman Empire; after the First World War, after 1923, there were only over 100,000 Armenians left; that data between the diaspora and half a million people who were killed. Sometimes it is good to read what the great thinkers of that organized massacre said, of that organized plan of extermination – that was the term that Rafael Lemkin put to him, when he wrote in 1944 a book to describe what the Nazis had done with the final solution – that was a coordinated plan consisting of different actions that want the destruction of the essential foundations of life, of national groups with the objective of annihilate them. Well, the Great Visir when he said "to settle the Armenian issue, it is necessary to liquidate the Armenians" was obviously clear. It is necessary to destroy their families and the foundations of their family organization. The family is the stronghold of the resistance of its people, especially of Armenian. If that bulwark is destroyed, without resistance, they will be annihilated and no killing will be necessary because the national institutions themselves will disappear. But they had to resort to massacres, killings that not only took place on April 24 that night, the kidnapping of 250 Armenian intellectuals – the most important for the Armenian people – and their murder, but from there began a whole planned, organized process of massacre, including deportation to the desert – where they were left to die – or simply drowning in the Euphrates, which turned into a huge sea of blood and Armenian bodies, Armenian women, Armenian girls, children. It was a real planned genocide and, therefore, what we need to ask for is peace, but peace with social justice, as it was done in Colombia, as it was done in South Africa, peace with gratitude for the victims. And that, the international community is much more important than it seems, but of course, when you do what you do with Turkey today and you give it a white letter to keep doing what you do with the Kurdish people, because of course it is a bad example. That's why they were very angry when Germany was ready to recognize that this was a genocide, not a massacre, genocide. Why? Because that implies an organized plan, an organized plan to annihilate a whole culture. We repeated, there were more than 100,000 left and the diaspora, which was the one that kept the tongue crack as the fundamental means of communication of the Armenian people. Well, I'm going to finish – because sometimes we have to finish with verses – with William Saroyan's verses, which he lived between 1908 and 1981, son of an Armenian immigrant, which pointed out the following: "On April 24, I signaled the attempt to exterminate a nation, but that nation did not want to die, and did not die. I'd like to see some power in the world destroy this people, this small tribe of people with no importance whose history is over, whose battles have been fought and lost, whose structures have been destroyed, whose literature is not read, whose music is not heard, whose prayers are no longer pronounced. They're destroying Armenia! See if they can do it! Throw them out of their homes into the desert, leave them without bread and water, burn their houses and their temples. Go ahead and try to destroy it, but the Armenian people, however, have not died and therefore deserve all the support of the people who believe themselves to be democratic." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u184	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u185	Thank you, President. It has often been said that international politics and international positions say a great deal about the democratic character of a government and it seems clear that we are facing a case where this can be exemplified. I wonder why it causes so much conflict to call genocide the killing of Armenians in Turkey. Why is there so much trouble calling things by their name? Words mean and it is important and fundamental, to recognize existence, to overcome that situation, so that people can move forward and move forward in their future, to recognize the past. And to recognize the past, you have to call things by name, you have to recognize the existence of a fact; verbalizing it is the first step to call it. Just as Franco was not the head of the state, but he was a dictator; as Galicia is not the northwest of the Iberian peninsula; as the Kurds are not the Turks of the mountains, but I am a differentiated people; as Kurdistan is not a mountain, but it is the nation of the Kurds, therefore the genocide of Armenia is not a civil conflict where there were Muslim and Christian victims, it is a genocide! And, as a matter of fact, you have to call him. It is genocide, because genocide is, by definition, the United Nations, which incorporated this term in 1948, "the intention to destroy a national, ethnic, racial, religious group through the execution of its members and deliberately infringing on the group conditions of life calculated to cause their physical destruction." It involves calculation and premeditation. A genocide proposes to go beyond the killing of subjects, for it implies the project to destroy a people in its entirety. And this was the intention of the Ottoman Empire with regard to the Armenian people, with regard to Armenia. So, if this is the case, why would that attempt not recognize it? In the context of World War I, between 1915 and 1923, the Turkish Government carried out the planned murder of Armenians living in the Ottoman territory. And it's recognized as the first genocide of the 20th century. During that period, it wasn't a conflict between equals, Mr. Trenor, it wasn't a conflict between equals; we're talking about a domain position and a dominant position. And during this period, more than one and a half million Armenians were murdered, their possessions were stolen, their language was stolen, their monuments and their churches were destroyed, their cemeteries were razed, and their cemeteries were removed from the document that could testify that there had ever been an Armenian community in Turkey. This has a word, today it has a word, and it's "genocide." Armenian extermination is already recognized by many countries and by powers. And yes, it is true that there are reluctance on the part of other powers and other countries for this to be recognized. Ask why that fear or that doesn't want to recognize it. For a very clear question: because economic and political interests prevail over reparation to the Armenian people. The political, economic and geo-strategic interests that Turkey is a fundamental piece for NATO, is a fundamental geo-strategic piece to dominate the Middle East and put a stop to Russia. That's why you'd rather be a buyer with Turkey than recognize the true genocide with the Armenian people. And, of course, we know what Turkey's arguments are for not recognizing Armenia's genocide. He has economic arguments; he has arguments that recognizing that reality would mean, among other things, having to recognise compensation in economic and political terms. But the question is, why does the People's Party not want to recognize this reality of Armenian genocide? Of course, truth and repair are needed to bring justice to the Armenian people. On the contrary, impunity and denial of genocide are impunity. And, of course, the judgment of the BNG, the shame portrays to those who suffer it. There's nothing, Germany has just joined the states that recognize the genocide of the people of Armenia. Pope Francis recognized him several times, called him by his name: Armenian genocide. Belgium, the Netherlands, Cyprus, France, Greece, Italy, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Argentina, Canada, Chile, Lebanon, Russia, Syria, Uruguay – which was the first to acknowledge – the Vatican, Venezuela... and here comes the People's Party to say that we do not allow unrest, not interference... I would like you to apply that same precept, for example, for Venezuela or other states that had that policy of non-interference. Of course, today the People's Party doesn't want to recognize something as obvious as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u187	...the Armenian people were the object of genocide... which, at this time, in Armenia only lives three million of the more than eleven million Armenians show what the situation this people has been condemned to. So, because the People's Party doesn't want to recognize it, it shows and shame to the People's Party itself, because whoever asks us for this recognition is one of the parts that you wanted to mention today, Mr. Trenor; he said we'd let both countries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u189	But it is precisely Armenians who are demanding that the existence of genocide be recognized for, indeed, on the basis of the recognition of the truth, based on not to hide history, to be able to build a future. That seems obvious.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u191	That is why we are going to support this initiative, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u193	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for the support of the groups supporting this LNP. And now, with regard to the amendments, I offer to the groups that presented the two amendments a transaction to reach an agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Trenor, you speak of the 2009 Zurich Protocol. A protocol that only serves to establish diplomatic relations between the Republic of Armenia and the Republic of Turkey. We're not talking about it here. I also want to point out to you that in your amendment, in the amendment that you present to me, what you call tragic events, that meaning, it has a meaningful and that significant is "xenocide." This is demonstrated by numerous witnesses of diplomats, missionaries, people who have been there and who have witnessed it, and who have moved it to newspapers. One of them, The New York Times, already in 1915, qualifies the facts as a racial extermination planned and organized by the Turkish Government of that time. Mr. Trenor, I am prepared to deal with the amendments to the Socialist Party and the People's Party; I only put a condition, nothing more than a condition, and that condition is that the text resulting from the transaction explicitly reflects these words: "The Parliament of Galicia recognises the genocide of the Armenian people." I hope you don't put a stop to it. In 2007, the Basque Parliament approved this recognition of the votes of the Socialist Party and the votes of the People's Party. And I am proud to express here at this time, as a parliamentary and as a Welshman, the qualification that the Galician Parliament received from the State of Israel when it supported the Palestinian people: he was qualified as an enemy of the State of Israel. I am proud of the bravery of the Galician Parliament in this position. I hope and wish, for the sake of humanity, that this Galician Parliament, at this historic moment, at the moment that xenophobic movements are taking place in Europe, movements of the far right, so that it will not repeat itself, let us put our little sandstone in the defence of human rights and unanimously acknowledge the genocide of the Armenian people. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u194	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. We then proceeded to debate in a cumulative way a proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and another initiative from the Left Galician Alternative Parliamentary Group. Both of them talk about the railway accident in Angrois. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members, on the demands to be made in relation to the new report drawn up by the European Commission on the railway accident in Angrois, the composition and functioning of the Commission on Railway Accidents, as well as the creation in the Galician Parliament of a parliamentary investigation commission on this subject. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members, on the creation by the Galician Board of Inquiry on the derailment of the train Alvia in the corner of Angrois
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u195	First of all, you have the floor to formulate the non-law proposition, Ms Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. As your lords know, the next 24th of June will be three years of the dramatic and most grievous sinister of Angrois, which caused the death of eighty-one people and one hundred and forty wounded. Three years, one thousand ninety-five days, in which the victims – the people who lost a child, a friend, a mother, an aunt – had to keep the nightmare alive and had to remember that dramatic situation. But also, three years in which these people had to overcome the pain, they had to be on the streets, they had to be at the doors of the judges, within the courts, in the courts of Parliament – as today in this session – claiming justice, claiming truth. Because we have something very clear since BNG and it is that, without truth, there can be no justice. And, of course, what's happening right now with the victims of England's sinister is a real shame. And I say, on behalf of the BNG, that we are ashamed of a state that prejudges the interests of the companies that have done AVE to the dignity of the victims; that it shames us a Minister of Development – who is also a candidate of the People's Party for the province of Pontevedra – who has promised to help the victims and the only thing that has done has been to hinder judicial investigation; that it shames us that there are most bipartisans who are always against the fact that in parliaments there are investigative commissions. This is the fourth time in this Parliament that we are going to vote on the BNG proposal to set up an investigation committee. I imagine that will also be the fourth time the People's Party votes no, not counting those that have prevented it from even being able to debate on this matter. Finally, to say, on behalf of the BNG, that we feel ashamed of a regime that denies the right to truth, the right to railway security, all to defend the interests of a few. And since we're always going to be with the victims, we're always going to be on the side of the truth, and we're going to be – until the last moment – so that those who have a responsibility to assume. In this work, it seems to us that it is very important that we know what is happening right now and that we clearly stand on which side we are on. Today Mr. Núñez Feijóo, absent from this debate – although I think it would be very positive for him to attend this issue – told us that he could look into the eyes of the Greeks and the Greeks because he was concerned about their problems. And I wonder if Mr. Núñez Feijóo can be here today and look into the eyes of the people who are in this gallery, who were on that train, and tell them he was on his side. I think he knows he can't do it, because, when he had the opportunity to look them in the eye, what he did was to send them the riots, as he did in that shameful delivery of medals. When the victims were outside, Mr. Núñez Feijóo didn't get them out of his hand, Mr. Núñez Feijóo sent them the riots. And we, from BNG, say very clearly that we are going to be with them and with them to the end, that we want justice done. As in other cases where the State has tried to conceal its responsibilities, we know that this is an unequal war, but we are going to be in the European Commission, the Congress of Deputies, the German Parliament, the various councils and institutions of this country; because we are not going to rest until justice is done, until responsibility is taken and the necessary steps are taken to ensure that a sinister of these characteristics does not happen again. And as time goes on, there's more data that gives us the reason, that gives the victims the reason that there's a lot more responsibility than the driver's, and that everything that has been done from that accident to this day has been a big lie. One of the main arguments that the People's Party used to deny an investigation commission in parliaments was that there was already a railway investigation commission that was going to do that investigation. Well, the victims, and the BNG also with the victims, they always said that that investigation commission was not a valid commission, among other things, because they were judges and parties, and who is part of the accident and responsibility cannot be objective in judging this. We denounced him. We said, for example, that the president of that CIAF had been director of Renfe until 2004 – in which he became corporate security – and that he maintained business and economic ties with the company of Renfe Mercancias S.A. and with Renfe’s public enterprise in the project Zebra for a German company; that all members of that commission had links with Renfe or Adef, or even links with the companies that were soon taxing those works; and that, with that kind of interest, it was impossible for the members of this commission to do an independent job. This complaint was made in Congress itself – it was made to the minister, the People's Party – and they always denied it, but we believe we must go to the bottom. And so we went and accompanied the platform, and since the BNG we have organized a visit to the European institutions to denounce the violation of the legislation on the investigation of railway accidents and in particular the directives that have been made. Today we know that the commission itself and that the Spanish State itself acknowledged that the CIAF itself had no validity, that it failed to meet that criterion of independence. And even with the visit of the victims to Brussels, a report was requested and made which is currently being hidden by the European Commission from the pressure of the People's Party and from the pressure of the Socialist Party. And, according to some confidentiality, what is being said is that the Government of the State is pressing the European Commission not to make that report public before the elections. Because to you, in the end, the only thing that matters to you is the votes and you give them whatever the truth is, whatever the responsibilities and whatever the situation the victims have right now. Just as they tried to tell us that in the accident there was no political responsibility for decisions that clearly had an impact on the accident. Because everyone – I am convinced – and all of those who are sitting here in this Parliament know that, if the appropriate security measures were to be taken, the English accident could have been avoided. So when that is reality, when that's what you're saying even the only truly independent report that was in this failed trial in relation to English, when that's reality, we're saying that there has to be recognition, first, that things have been done wrong; secondly, that the victims have the right to truth; thirdly, that it's really going to act with transparency and rigour; and, fourthly, that we're going to take the necessary steps to prevent such a situation from happening again at some point in our country. Of course, we don't understand how, for all reasons, in the face of all the claims that have been made, in the Spanish state, we intend to put a silent slate on the Angrois accident. We understand that this is because there are some and some people who are interested because they don't know the truth; because if they knew the truth, those people couldn't be on an electoral list, these people couldn't continue to have political responsibilities and they would have to assume the great lies that they were telling us during this time. Of course, we do not only want this report to be claimed today that the European Commission is keeping under pressure from the Spanish State. Because, in addition, we know that we are going to do so, because we are claiming in the European institutions themselves, which are even failing to meet the basic criteria for transparency. And the only general interest in this country is to know the truth and not to repeat an accident like that of Angrois. That's the only truth we're interested in. But also, we believe it is essential that there is a clear position here. Do we believe that the CIAF was a valid organism if or not, do you really believe that those responsible for that scarf that left us in English can be those who investigate the accident? Of course, we do not think so; we do not know what the other Members and Members of this House think. We also believe that there has to be a new investigation, which has to change the regulations governing the CIAF and have a truly independent commission which, from a technical point of view, from the point of view of the management's responsibilities, evaluates what has happened. But there are also political responsibilities, and these political responsibilities have to be addressed in research committees, in Congress of Members and in Parliament of Galicia. Because look, the biggest railway accident in our history is going out without anything going on here is not only a receipt, it would be a shame to the dignity of this country and to the dignity of the victims. Think about it, gentlemen, what you're going to do, which side you want to put on, before you press the button. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u198	Good morning. I want to welcome the people of the Alvia Victim Platform who are visiting us today, to an institution that should serve to shed light and not to cover, and which should serve to comfort you and not to assault you. Unfortunately, most of the People's Party over these years has prevented it from doing so, at least on this subject, and in many others. Why do we insist on our initiative asking for an investigation commission for the English accident? Because we don't want to live in a country where the responsibilities are hidden and where the responsibilities are loaded on the back of those below systematically, gentlemen of the People's Party; because we want a democratic country, fair and with representatives and administrations sensitive to people and transparent; because we want political leaders who are not submissive to the strong and authoritarian ones with the weak. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – look at me in the eye – we want an investigation commission for the crash in England, for democracy, for transparency, for justice. In any case, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you or your colleagues in Madrid have nothing to hide, why do they deny it? Today's debate is not useful to determine whether or not there are political responsibilities, whether or not they are responsible for names and names. This is not the time. Today we discuss whether a train accident in our country, which has caused eighty-one fatalities and more than a hundred wounded, is worthy of having a space where the political responsibilities might be investigated. That's what we discussed today. We are discussing today whether an accident of this magnitude, where there are serious indications of the evasa in the security systems, where the original project has been modified by lowering security – and this is an objective data, it is not an opinion – and no alternative measures have been taken to curb that safety reduction; if necessary, in this case, the mechanisms of maximum transparency and accountability of public administration representatives are adopted. Today we also discuss what model of democracy we have in mind for each other: a quality democracy, more demanding by the action of its public office, or a ritualist democracy, where everyone is confined to voting every four years. Today we debate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, whether or not we want citizenship to know in depth the behaviour of administrations; a democracy without fear of light entering all corners. Or if we want an opaque democracy, where decision-making takes place in closed spaces without the possibility of public scrutiny, which is the best way for corruption to appear. And corruption, unfortunately, appears. Is there something for the People's Party called political responsibilities? Does the People's Party think there are only criminal responsibilities in this case? I want to hear your opinion. If we agree that in a democracy, in addition to criminal responsibilities, there are political responsibilities, we will have to create the spaces, the appropriate mechanisms, to clear them up and manage them. To refuse this leads to regard the discourse of political responsibilities as pure rhetoric without consequences. Today we also debate whether the treatment given by the institutions to their citizens is appropriate, and whether the treatment given by the Greek and Spanish institutions to the victims of the Angrois accident is appropriate. We believe that the magnitude of the accident, the lowering of security conditions and the failure to take measures to address that risk and that everything lies in the human factor, and the signs of errors in risk assessment, deserve to be opened in this Parliament – this because it was an accident in our country – in this Parliament. I know that the People's Party once made the excuse that this was not in Parliament, that it was in the Congress of Deputies. Well, the Congress of Deputies also refused to have a political responsibility clearance space. But we say here we have to do an investigation commission. And anyone who doesn't want to come up with legal matters will be portrayed, as you are portrayed every time they refuse to vote in favour of a commission of inquiry. If there are political leaders who have failed to do so, their work cannot be awarded, as the People's Party systematically rewards those who do harm in the performance of their duties. Having respect for and showing sensitivity to the victims is also a part of making the political work see. And Mr. Ferré and Mr. Catalá, because of their insensitivity and lack of respect for the victims, should not go on for a minute at their posts - and we don't talk about what it seems to us to be, even above all, that they are raised. And to reach this conclusion if no investigation commission is required, you just have to listen to your subsequent statements, where they showed more concern about saving the businesses of large companies than about having sensitivity to the victims; more concerned about saying that this was no high speed than showing concern for the victims. Another thing I would like to ask is if, at the inauguration of this line, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Blanco assumed a high-speed train with all the features, a train like what was going to Andalusia, at that time no one responsible for Adif and Renfe denied them – which if they did the day after the accident, or two days later – was it high speed or not? Answer this simple question, please. Can you in politics, in this country, lie and deceive with total impunity, without it cost nothing? We're in time to open up an investigation commission and show that this whole process, which led to changing the original project, not taking palliative measures etc., etc., was exemplary and there were no errors. What are you afraid of then? The commission can be constituted and the families of the victims can see that everything has been done well, that all these good-wage political leaders who never assume responsibilities have acted scrupulously in fulfilling their technical, political and ethical duty. What are they afraid of? The resignation of high officials, even if they did not have direct responsibilities, would be the least they should do and would be a way to ask forgiveness and show respect for the victims. The only way to ask forgiveness and show about victims in politics is to resign, even without having direct responsibilities. It's the duty of any public representative with a minimum of ethics. Why refuse to make a regulated commission in parliament with all democratic guarantees? What are they afraid of? They answer. His fear makes the only conclusion to which citizenship comes is that you intend to run a dark cloak over the event. That's all his constant negative is understood. This commission is more necessary than ever for the regeneration and improvement of the democratic system of this country, which in the face of these events systematically follows the same pattern: the finger of the State marks the worker, the pilot, and there are never any charges – those that charge so good wages – that assume political responsibilities. Whether on the subway of Valencia, Spanair, Prestige or this Alvia, always the same. The ones below pay and the ones upstairs ascend. Let them investigate what happened. What are you afraid of? And we don't want justice to be late, because if it's no longer justice. And we don't want European institutions once again to have to change their plan to the bad practices of the People's Party. The European institutions have had to amend the plan to their policies of complicity with banks in the defiance and execution of mortgages. Yes, they had to spend many years, many challenges, many sufferings, and many people who left their lives for this. Let's not let the same thing happen here. You are already acting on the European Union, you are already acting on the European Union, and you are still trying to cover up. There are more than remarkable indications to open this investigation commission. Your refusal has only one explanation: you have a lot to hide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u199	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u200	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all of us welcome the people who accompany us from the Alvia Victims Platform. We are going to support the two non-legislative proposals presented by the BNG Group and the AGE Group, because we consider it to be just - and I say Justice with capitals - and we have a great responsibility here in Parliament to find out the truth, to create a commission of inquiry. We've been filming the shocking images of this tragedy for three years, and for nearly three years, we've been being denied the truth, we've still been brake, the brake that was missing that day, which could prevent the death of 81 people and also avoid the number of victims. And it's fair to wonder and know what happened. It was the sum of several factors that represented the chronicle of an announced death. It's a lie, it's a scam, it's a chapuza, it's a deceptive advertising, it's a tragedy. This accident was a turning point to recapitulate on the rights to security of citizenship and public infrastructure. We have the right to decent infrastructures and to end with impunity for those responsible, who do not protect human lives. And yes, there were mistakes. Obviously, there was a human mistake. The machinist is the weakest link in this chain. We have to point a person, we don't have to point a culprit. It was the target they all threw at. And on the other hand, the victims don't want medals, they want justice, they want to know the truth. We ask for transparency and that you can't close this drama without really knowing what happened on the bend of the Great. The European Commission closed an infringement file to the Spanish State for the application of EU rail safety standards. It is very important and it is key to the publication of this report, which, well, was prior to the accident. European legislation on accident investigation was not well transposed into the Spanish legal system. They also denounced the lack of independence of the Railway Accidents Research Commission. The European Commission has questioned the impartiality of the report, which only blames the driver, as most independent technicians have already questioned. If you say, by the words of some professional, that it is even very complicated the impartiality of many of the professional people in the whole state, and you would have to hand it over even of foreign professionals. There is evidence that there has been a lack of risk assessment by Adif and Renfe, and today there are still many questions and many mysteries. There was not an integral assessment of the risk of the line that had taken into account the danger of this curve where the derailment occurred; there is evidence that there was an accident risk in the curve. And also that there are responsibilities, and political responsibilities, for the state of the road and the absence of a security system that could prevent this tragedy. And besides, the convoy carried a greater weight than the permit, which circulated contradicting the prohibition of official documentation and which was not even approved as a whole, but by parts. And from there he gets the name, in Frankenstein's railway argot: it was made of rectangles of other products that did not meet operational needs, but political. And it's funny, isn't it? The name, like this literary character, where they didn't think about the effects that the experiment could bring. And Renfe's own insurer, who saw a predictable and untolerable risk in this curve, which had to be softened and in which nothing was done. Even signaling problems were admitted in the plot and omitted that the ERTMS braking system itself could prevent these deaths and victims. And now yes, of course, after the sinister, they announce the revision of the tranches. We had to pay death for the realization of this work, which had to be anticipated. A new signaling has been implemented which has modified the protocols to increase the safety of all paths. And yes, there are still mysteries. Why is the judge who accuses the Adif dome, who considered as a multiple cause the trigger of this sin? It is a risk to traffic safety that there may be high-speed routes where significant speed variations occur, from 220 kilometers to 80 hours, without at that point monitoring an automatic protection system, such as ERTMS, ECTS number 1 and number 2. Even the Spanish Workers' and Railway Assistants' Union itself defended the system itself, it could even serve the use of a beacon and a speed pre-announcement. It also influenced bad communication, relationship and irresponsibility between the Railway Infrastructure Administrator and Renfe, which was at the base, for many experts, of this kind of fact. [[Adif]] The lack of collaboration of research institutions has often been reported, possibly to prevent the discovery of new responsibilities of the administration itself. And the decision of carrying out the modified project in the new high-speed line that assumed the change of fundamental aspects of the original project, which resulted in a significant variation of original designs in relation to signaling, control and rail protection systems. The external participation of a certification body, as laid down in Order FOM/233/2006, in Article 9(1)(b)(9q) which states: "In the case of modified rail vehicles a report of a certification body shall be added, in the opinion of that body, to indicate the amendments made. External participation may provide a different perspective to the validation process and the report prepared by the certification body will be incorporated into the rest of the documentation." That's why we understand that this commission should be opened, because the case is not closed at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u202	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We also send a warm greeting to the people who accompany us in this debate on such a sensitive and mourning issue. "Don't forget us, don't abandon us." This desperate cry, expressed by the victims, scrupulously marks the procedure in the background and in the forms of the Socialist Group. We owe the victims the investigations and debates that lead to these investigations and debates not becoming overacts that turn them into victims or into eternal silences that humiliate them. We've run this risk once and must be over. We are about to celebrate the third anniversary of a date that will remain in history as a black day for Santiago, for Galicia and for the victims. It should always be present. On that goddamn afternoon of July 24, 2013, a train Alvia carried illusion, joy, life, and decided to move forward the gentle stop at Santiago station and do it in Angrois, in the curve of the Great, in a hasty and violent manner; 80 deceased and 144 wounded. We all think that sin should never have happened, but it happened, and it's not explained. It's not explained that a machine, without its own life, designed, constructed and driven by people, that circulated by a line designed and constructed by people, with signaling and automations decided by people, with rules and regulations developed by people, could contradict what people do in such a violent way and with the tragic consequences we know. We're talking about qualified people, with decision-making capacity, with responsibilities, with names and surnames. It is therefore essential to clarify the causes that have brought about this disaster and to explain them in full transparency, in order to identify errors, in order to correct them, in order to clear up responsibilities. Victims, users and society are waiting for this explanation. They hope that research will be as broad and profound as it is necessary, in line with the victim's spirit: "Don't forget us, don't abandon us." Our contributions go on that line and they have that meaning. We strongly share that desire. The argumentation and position of the Socialist Group is well known in this House. We want to know the truth about England's sinisterness and we don't give up on anything once we know the results of the investigations and reports. And we want it to be done with maximum respect and strictness. That's why we advocate prudence as an activator in the forms and at the bottom, and placing the victims in their central role. We do not share overactations that turn them into victims, or silences that humiliate them. If we fully share the reopening of the judicial instruction ordered by the Court of the Crown. What we expect from it is rigour, axillity, full procedural guarantees for the parties involved and conclusions that allow them to make a fair decision on their responsibilities. Finally, the Socialist Group reiterates the desire for full knowledge of the truth that brings peace and full satisfaction to the victims. That is why we are going to support the proposals that we consider to be of real value in order to achieve this end. We support the reopening of the judicial instruction, and we support, in the field of these initiatives that we are debating, if the Galician Nationalist Block Group allows us to vote separately, we support – I say – the first resolution: to make public the report of the European Commission on the crash in England. And we support points 1 and 2 of the second resolution; point 1: review of the composition and functioning of the Railway Accidents Research Commission; and point 2: start, in that new framework of this new composition of the Railway Accidents Study Commission, the creation of a new research. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u203	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Fernández. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to health in a special and deepest way, in the name of my parliamentary group and in my own name, the representatives of the Alvia Train Victims Platform, who are kind enough to accompany us in this plenary session, as well as all the families and friends of all the victims of this accident. And I would also like to say, with your permission, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing we do or say here today, or anything that can happen in the future, can so minimize even the very intense pain that you feel and that unfortunately will never disappear. All of us have lost in a tragic accident one of the most dearest beings for us, for you, we find no consolation – say what I say and whoever says so – and no peace or quiet. It's as unfair as crushing, as useless as painful. That, the slow pace of time and truth, helps us keep living. We wish them, therefore, with all our strength, that this dramatic vital road that is going on enables them to obtain at least the relief that gives them courage to continue. But, ladies and gentlemen, the spokesperson of the Galego Nationalist Block and the AGE spokesman, going to the bottom of the question you bring again to the plenary of this House, is our legal obligation to point out that the regulation on safety in the circulation of the rail network of general interest assigns competence for the investigation of railway accidents and incidents, as you know, to the Railway Accidents Investigation Commission, known for its acronym of CIAF. The purpose of this research will be to determine the causes of these investigations and the circumstances in which they occurred, with the object of forecasts in the future, and to make appropriate recommendations for reducing risks in rail transport. However, ladies and gentlemen, this investigation will not in any case deal with the determination of guilt or responsibility and will be independent of any judicial investigation. As everyone in this House is sure to know, the CIAF has prepared its final report on 20 May 2014 on this very serious railway accident on that sad day of July 24, 2013. This report concludes that the cause of the accident was a serious excess of train speed on the entrance curve to the Bigger bifurcation, limited to 80 km/h, because the prescribed time book of the train and maximum speed box of this line is not respected. The report, as a coadjuvant cause, points to a lack of attention, which has motivated the non-application of the brake to reduce the speed before the input to the curve. On the other hand, the Angrois accident is being the subject of the corresponding criminal procedure, whose investigation phase was carried out, as you know, by the Instruction Judge number 3 of this capital of Santiago. On October 7, 2015, the investigating judge gave a car to put an end to the previous proceedings and an abbreviated procedure was opened. After different process procedures, ending last month of this month 2016, the Provincial Court of the Crown agreed to bring the cause back to the pre-dignition phase, i.e. the reopening of the instruction phase. The end of this judicial decision is to determine whether there existed and whether it was legally and technically necessary an integral assessment of the risk of the line, which took into account the danger situation in the curve where the accident occurred, and to clarify certain aspects of the expert reports carried out. In mid-April 2016, the European Railway Agency (ERA) completed its analysis of the CIAF's investigation of the accident, in order to determine whether it had ensured the independence of the investigations carried out. However, ladies and gentlemen, the disclosure of the ERA report must be authorised by the European Commission itself, and on 1 June the Commission communicated the closure of the open file against Spain, which were being analysed whether or not the conditions needed to publish that report were being met. And finally, June 2 – six days ago – was known to the European Commission's intention not to publish the report until the end of the month, so as not to interfere with the ongoing judicial investigation. In any case, it is important to point out to our judgment that this institution has already reiterated on several occasions that the report does not address the responsibility of the disaster, but rather the organization of investigations into railway accidents. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG and the AGE, you certainly know perfectly – because in this way the law says it – that the powers in matters of railways and land transport that pass through the territory of more than one autonomous community fall exclusively and exclusively into the state. As they certainly know this, they also know that this absence of powers formally and legally disables any commission of investigation that could be created in an autonomous parliament, and this because such a commission should become empty of content, because nothing could investigate, because it prevents him from the law, that you and we have sworn to observe and comply with, like the rest of the citizens of this rule of law. And when it comes to finding out the truth, hardly anyone who has the legal capacity to investigate can reach it. And, Mrs. Pontón, I remind you, with all due respect, that, in the exercise of the powers that this autonomous community has, the Vice-President of the Galician Council has appeared in this House to explain and account for the device unfolded that day, which was praised by all, and has done so, Your Honor, in addition, immediately. In short, ladies and gentlemen, the Provincial Court of the Coruña ordered to reopen the judicial investigation of Alvia's accident, and it is necessary, in our judgment, to be prudent and respectful in the ongoing judicial proceedings. In this sense, maximum respect for all judicial decisions and a process that must be developed with complete and absolute independence. Respecting the law and respecting the judicial decisions, ladies and gentlemen, they lead, therefore, to the fact that this parliamentary group cannot support the AGE initiative, and if we are willing to vote in favour of asking the Commission to make the report public if the BNG Parliamentary Group accepts the vote on points of its own initiative, and more specifically the first point of the first paragraph of the operative part, which I request here, on behalf of my group, on a humble and formal basis. But, ladies and gentlemen, above all, this Parliament must show – and so does – the utmost respect and understanding for the families of the most serious railway accident that has happened in our history. They must know that, together with them, all of us, all of the Greeks and all of the Greeks, we have the greatest interest in knowing how first the whole truth of that sad day, which has filled so many people of good in this land and so that we will never have to suffer anything like it again. Nothing else, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Goldar. Parliamentary groups responsible for the proposal. First of all, the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry that we came to the end of this debate with a fixed picture, and the fixed picture is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party are unable to meet one of the main claims that the victims of the Crusade of Angrois, that there is a request for forgiveness, political accountability and a political investigation, which is what we have here to analyze, that really goes to the bottom of the matter and that the truth is known. Mr. Goldar, I think you should resign – I tell you frankly – you should resign for lying – and it's not a joke. You can laugh and frizz absolutely whatever you want, because we are talking about a very serious issue, because you cannot come to this Parliament and say that the Galician Parliament has no competence to open an investigation commission on the main railway accident. I say this because the Rules of Procedure of this House do not say that the committees of inquiry have to do with the exclusive powers of the Union. No, no. He says it has to do with any matter of general interest going on in our country. And I can tell you one thing: I don't think there's anything that interests us more than knowing what the causes of a railway accident were of those characteristics, clearing responsibilities and making all the decisions that are necessary. And what we think is an absolute act of cynicism is, knowing what the composition of the CIAF is, what it names the minister, that all of her positions are related to Renfe or to high-speed law firms, come here and tell us that it was an independent commission. What data do you have to say that this was an independent commission even though the European Commission itself opened it up is a procedure to the Spanish State because it says that the body responsible for doing these investigations does not meet that criterion, that it is a fundamental criterion, and that therefore cannot be a judge and party, and that that this report, which was used by itself as a very important part of the prosecution's argument to put down accusations from the political point of view, is addicted, that it has vices of legality, because whoever did it has a spure interest in that investigation and is exculpatory of all sorts of responsibilities? We truly feel like an insult, an insult to the truth, an insult to dignity, as well as to those who are suffering the pain behind that accident and an insult to the intelligence of the Greeks and the Greeks. It can't be, ladies, it's not all right. There's certainly a lot of suffering, there's a lot of work, there's the commitment of people who continue to argue that what they want is forgiveness, that what they want is justice, and that whoever committed an irresponsible assumption, and not that these people are still being awarded responsibility. Of course, I regret that, once again, what we have here is a jug of cold water to the truth. I am sorry that this is the policy of the People's Party and Mr Feijóo, who – I insist – should be present today in this debate, and should go up to the rostrum and look into the eyes of the victims of England and tell them it's true; I'm sure you can't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u208	Once again, the People's Party did not explain why it was afraid of an investigation commission in a democratic parliament. He didn't explain it because he can't explain it. What you're afraid of is precisely the truth. And you've started very badly. He said he appreciated the kindness of the victims, and the family of the victims, of being here today. They're not for kindness today, Mr. Goldar, they're not for kindness, they're despite the pain that causes them to come here. And you said that nothing can soothe the pain of these people. That's not understanding anything these people are going on. Of course, knowledge of the truth and clear political responsibilities which can bring great relief to these people, Mr. Goldar. Don't you see how they don't understand anything? Don't you see how they don't understand anything? Of course it can soothe the pain, and you're preventing the mechanisms to soothe part of that pain. You refer to legal and technical matters to deny this commission of inquiry in the Greek Parliament. That's not the point. The question is political will. And the responsible people who are quoted by the German Parliament who refuse to come and declare themselves will be portrayed, as you are being portrayed. He was talking about skills. All right. There was also no committee of inquiry at the Congress of Deputies to clear up political responsibilities. They're denying this. The CIAF, apart from being a judge and a party, because the same ones who make the decisions are in the commission, it's not to settle political responsibilities, it's to settle technical issues. They don't understand the difference or they don't want to understand it. The same judge, not a judge but two judges, said in their cars that they didn't deny there were political responsibilities, but that was not the area where they needed to be cleared, and you're denying them space for clearance, and you're also denying the possible clarification and the possibility for them to act properly. A commission of inquiry does not presuppose the guilt of anyone, which assumes someone's guilt is their attitude. You were talking about the appearance – I think Mr. Rueda – to talk about the praised device. Praised by whom? Not for the workers on the device, precisely. And you ended up asking for forgiveness. Look, the forgiveness you said doesn't like anything. That was overacting, that pardon costs nothing and has no transcendence. Mr. Socialist Party, Mr. Fernández, there is no overacting. We're acting under the circumstances. I think there's an understatement of your group and the People's Party, that they're not up to the circumstances. And, I repeat, as in all cases, as in the case of the Valencia metro, as in the case of Spanair, as in all these cases where you tried to cover up the political leaders who charge good salaries, don't worry, it will spend a lot of time, but it will end up coming out of the truth to the light and they will end up being responsible for the light, even with changes in government through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u209	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u210	At the conclusion of the debate, we proceeded to the vote on non-law proposals. We voted in favour of the non-law proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, at the initiative of Ms. Eva Solla, on the coverage of Sergas staff vacations, as well as the beds that will be closed during the months of June, July, August and September. He has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Gaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the coverage of Sergas staff vacations, as well as on the beds that will be closed during the months of June, July, August and September. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u211	We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the launch of a new service for access to the port of Burela in 2016. They don't accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso and two other Members, on the service by the Galician Union of the new access to the port of Burela in 2016. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u212	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the measures necessary for the reduction of the type of VAT established for cultural activities, as well as the drive of a cultural VAT within the European Union to enable it to be harmonised. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the central government for the measures necessary for the reduction of the type of VAT established for cultural activities, as well as the impulse of a cultural VAT within the European Union to enable it to be harmonised. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u213	We are now voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposal on action on the launch of telematic notifications, through the LexNet system, in the Administration of Justice. He has already stated to the person who presented the motion that he did not accept the amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the problems arising from the launching of telematic notifications through the LexNet system in the Administration of Justice. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u214	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the People's Parliamentary Group on the impulse by the German Government of innovative public procurement in all public administrations. The amendment was not accepted. We therefore vote on this proposal. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Moisés Blanco Paradelo and seven other Members, on the drive by the Government of Galicia for innovative public procurement in all the administrations of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u215	We are voting on the proposal for a non-law of the Joint Parliamentary Group on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the Armenian genocide. A compromise proposal has been made by Mrs Iglesias. I don't know if there's any agreement on it or not.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u216	Thank you very much. Unfortunately today is a bad day for human rights. I couldn't deal with the People's Party. If I did deal with the Socialist Party. A bad day for human rights, a bad day for Galician Parliament, and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u217	No, Mrs Iglesias, I'm sorry, that's it. Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. There's no deal. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, there's a deal with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, or it'll either bring me in or read it. Read the transaction.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u218	After explaining that I have to read this transaction without the consensus of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u219	No, no, read, read.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u220	"The Galician Parliament recognises the Armenian genocide perpetrated by the Ottoman Empire as a crime against humanity, and urges the Galician Union to: Pimero, urges the Government of the State to recognize that the events that took place with the Armenian population between 1915 and 1923, constitute genocide according to the United Nations convention on the prevention and suppression of the crime of genocide adopted in December 1948. Secondly, he asked the Government of the State to encourage the Republic of Turkey to continue its efforts, including the declassification of archives, to assume its past, to recognize Armenian genocide and thus facilitate the way for true reconciliation between the Turkish and Armenian peoples. Thirdly, to ask the European Union for the role of mediator between the states of Turkey and Armenia in the final overcoming of the Armenian genocide." Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u221	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the German Government in connection with the Armenian genocide. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u222	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members, on the railway accident in Angrois. There is a motion for a vote on points, and you will tell me if you accept the vote on points of your non-legislative motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u223	Mr President, if I were more attentive to the debate, I would deduce...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u224	No, I didn't deduce... don't you accept it? Well, thank you, you don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u225	We want the whole vote to be taken.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u226	Thank you. I didn't take it that way, I'm sorry, and I was careful. We therefore vote. A point of order was not accepted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and two other Members, on the demands to be made in connection with the new report drafted by the European Commission on the railway accident in Angrois, the composition and operation of the Railway Accidents Research Commission, as well as the creation of a parliamentary commission on this subject in the Galician Parliament. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u227	Finally, we are voting on the proposal by the Alternative Galga de Esquerda, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez and five other Members, on the railway accident in Angrois. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members, on the creation by the Galician Board of Inquiry on the derailment of the Alvia train in the corner of Angrois. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 14, against, 38; abstentions, 18. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u228	Before I move on to the next item on the agenda, I inform you, at the request of the Government, of the last question on the agenda, which is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We are now debating item 5 on the agenda, which corresponds to the question of interpelerations. The question of the Beatriz Sestayo Doce and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece of the failure to comply with the electoral commitments in the field of public services and employment and the forecasts with regard to the correction of the policy which is following in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u229	Mrs. Noela Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u230	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. The confusion reigns again, just like in the previous plenary session, because I am not clear whether you are Mr. Rueda or the Town Councillor. At least this time I know you're not the Middle Rural Counselor because you're not sitting here. What happened the other day in this plenary session when we asked the Government about its recruitment policy, about the thickening of the rates of timeliness in public employment, in the Greek civil service, was paradoxical. We asked a clear question and put as an example a sentence in which firefighting personnel were recognized the category of indefinite discontinuouss. And, being present in the Chamber, as I said, the councillor of Fairy, in charge of the Directorate-General for Public Service, and the vice president of the Board, in charge of the entire Greek Public Administration, the councillor of the Rural Environment was the one who responded, who responded according to his book, without giving any explanation to what we asked him to do. This and the Socialist Group believe that this is not a comprehensive reading problem, since we assume that this government is capable of doing so. We understand that it was a terrible lack of respect for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, a lack of respect for the parliamentary activity we have carried out here and, of course, a lack of respect for all the public employees and employees who were awaiting the response of this government. In view of this situation, and also taking into account that we are suffering these last few weeks a sort of janja vu that reminds us of that 2012 election pre-campaign, the Socialist Group decided to include on the agenda this interpellation that was registered in February 2013, because unfortunately the situation in the quality of work of employees and public employees remains worrying, remains alarming. Now I ask you to look back and to go on the 20th of the 7th of 2012, Counsellor, the day after thousands of people filled the streets of all the cities of Spain to protest against Rajoy's government announcement, an announcement for a plan that is an adjustment of 65,000 million euros in two years. That day Mr. Feijóo made these statements: "I understand the disappointment and despair of the thousands of people who manifested themselves against the cuts. I don't like this measure, but I'm careful only because the law needs to be enforced. I won't ask the officials for any more effort, they've done enough." The measure Mr. Feijóo referred to was the elimination of extra December pay, equivalent to a decrease of 7% of his wages. In August, one day after announcing, after an extraordinary board of assembly, the advance of the elections, Mr. Feijóo repeated the same sentence. And even if we looked at the election program of the People's Party, there was no kind of mention of imminent cuts in public employees' wages. This happened after the beginning of that year, this government had launched a series of measures in the public sector, such as the reduction in pay for employees and public employees for low work, the voluntary reduction in the days of the interns, the abolition of dining rights, etc., etc. Mr. Feijóo began, therefore, the path of the re-election with a clear slogan: to stay as far away as possible from the anti-popular, anti-social measures that Mr. Rajoy was attacking from Madrid; and with another clear slogan: to make an amendment to the entire public service policy of the past four years. Two months after the election, he announced the 4% reduction in the average salary of public employees in that year 2013 through a 40% discount of the two extra payments, a discount applied through the specific supplements. The Government of Feijóo assumed – while employees and public employees were protesting against this measure – that they should feel lucky because, instead of losing a full extra payment, they would enter 60%, which would make savings for the public buildings of 125 million euros. In September 2013 he again amended himself by confirming that that flap would be maintained – recognizing that again, as in 2015 – until now it is maintained in the Budget Act of 2016; a measure that means that public employees and employees are losing around 200 million euros a year. In short, in the last ten years, the loss of purchasing power for employees and public employees in Greece was 33.5%, a decrease of more than four points higher than that suffered by employees and public employees in the state administrations. That's about wages, Counselor, but let's also talk about timing. Today I'm not giving you data from the union power stations, I'm going to use IGE data, even though I know that this data is certainly also a bit of a makeup. According to the Galego Institute of Statistics, from July 2009 to the same month of 2015, the reduction of official and statutory staff amounts to a total of 5,820 public employees; a reduction that is supplemented by staff hired and in precarious daily, or other links but in conditions of absolute precaution, or they are either depreciated to end up using private companies. A situation that has led the Socialist Group to bring numerous initiatives to this House, and even a resolution in the debate of the state of Autonomy and even attempting to successfully include in the Strategic Plan a clear commitment by the Galician Union to try to minimize this precarious public employment. It is hard to understand, Counselor, that you have a desire to rectify your policies despite the announcements of the past few weeks. Because, by setting an example, the Socialist Group presented in this plenary an initiative in which the Board was asked to give up the appeal to the Supreme Court on the specific complement of the extra payments of the year 2013. We simply ask them to take over the numerous judgments that came contradicting the decisions of their government. Well, the group that supports the Government voted against. The honourable Member who replied on that initiative was Mr Tellado, who said – I quote it textually – that "not all cases were the same", and that is why they voted against, and that the proceedings would follow his judicial course. They now announce that they will return that supplement. They do this because the elections are approaching, because of the pressure of the union power stations, because of the numerous judgments that corroborate the illegality of that flap. And the worst of all, Counselor, is that they sell it as a success of collective bargaining. Precisely the party that dismantled, the party that soon dynamiteed, collective bargaining for all these years. They even announce the refund of the extra payment from 2017 onwards, returning to that of "we will no longer pay the wages of public employees" from the year 2012 of Mr. Feijóo. With two differences, Counselor: the first, that no one ever believes them; and the second, that in 2017 they are not expected to rule. So, before I forget and you go up to this forum to show all your affection, gratitude and respect to employees and public employees, and applaud the People's Party's bench, of course, all the Socialist Group's support for employees and public employees, all the support for workers and workers in public services. And, of course, all the solidarity of this group with a collective that has been enduring for all these years is being used electorally; a collective employed in paper handkerchief mode, a handkerchief that, after being used at electoral time, is rejected. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, you have the word of the councillor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u232	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit that we are quite predictable. We usually make our answers about the texts that bring us from the different stands, especially from the opposition, and also from the parliamentary group that supports the Government, of course it is. So – and I will not then run away with certain statements made by your lordship – let me allow this first intervention to tie me to the text that was initially sent to us. Because, in fact, first of all, my intervention is today's initiative of his lordship of the Socialist Group, which has a record date in February 2013 – more than three years ago –. It seems to me that, with all due respect, it has rained a lot since that one. Just as the Socialist Group exposes in its interpellation, they still seem to be very concerned, and they were then, for a 251 square amortization in the social services of the Galician Union. Supposedly for measures that would take this government at that time. You were talking about a covert ERE and the dismantling of public services. In fact, he asks at his initiative how many jobs affect these measures and which in particular. Since these measures were to take place in 2013, I will make an effort to contextualize the questions your group asks me in the initiative. I want to tell you three things. First of all, she already answered who was the work and well-being advisor then, Mrs. Beatriz Mato, on March 13, 2013. It's been a long time. Today, he's taking on another councillor. But the time has also passed, and even the honourable Member – Mrs Sestayo – who then asked the question today is no longer a Member. Secondly, today we all know that no ERE or dismantling of public services has occurred. And thirdly, that the Council of Labour and Welfare – currently the Social Policy Council – has continued to adapt its structure through the modification, as it cannot be otherwise, of its relationship of jobs, and that not only did it not involve the depreciation of squares but it created more squares where they were most necessary for the provision of services to citizens. So let me tell you that the relationship of social services jobs from 2009 to 2016 has a positive balance of 141 places, which today are all occupied. For more information, in 2015 we created 251 new squares, all occupied. So we're on a positive differential with regard to that situation, because, in fact, we're talking right now about what happened in early 2013... He's changed the preteritary situation a lot. I'll give you another data. In the Junta set, between 2009 and 2016, to date, the balance between square amortizations and the creation of squares, i.e. the balance of that change in all staff frames and employment relationships gives us a positive balance of 861 squares. You speak on your initiative – and today they keep talking about dismantling public services. I'll give you more data. To clarify, since 2009, we have increased by 103% of the day centers, in relation to what we find ourselves when we reach the Government; we have increased by 25% of the public squares in Alzheimer's residences and centers; we have increased by 13% of the squares that care for people with disabilities. Your Honor, let us therefore put into force the effort made by Galicia in recent years to maintain public services. Don't forget that other autonomous communities have reduced their staff. And as you also pointed out, by handing out certain statistics from the IGE, which questioned – it certainly questions the statistics from the IGE but hands out what IGE statistics say – I'm going to take control of the official statistics from the Ministry of Finance, that they do collect the comparison in the most homogeneous terms possible among autonomous communities. And what if I'm going to tell you is that the staff paintings, from 2008 – year prescribed – until the end of 2015 and the beginning of 2016, what gives us is that the average decline in autonomous communities was 1.2%, and Galicia is the community that has the highest degree of stability, decreasing only 0.5%. But I'll give you another date. It turns out that one of the autonomous communities – the second in relative terms, the largest in absolute terms – which has a sharper decrease in its staff frameworks turns out to be the Andalusian Board. I suppose that won't be your example when you criticize the stance of this party and of this government. The German Government always fulfills our commitments. And as far as you're concerned about the other subject that you face tangentially in your first intervention with regard to the degree of interminence, you have to point out that this government has always used as much as possible the capacity of the replacement rate that we were legally obliged to. For example, the last two years. In 2015 the offer was approximately 1,200 squares. And in this 2016, 2,644 squares; specifically,1.200 places in education – teaching staff –, 812 in health care and 714 in social services, above all, and also in fire extinguishing and general administration devices. In addition, something I feel deeply proud not only as a counselor but as a person, for the first time in Galicia, in 2015, there are six places for people with intellectual disabilities, and this year 2016, 33 places for intellectual disabilities. It's the first time it's done in Galicia. And at this point, there are approximately 509 people who have this intellectual disability. The circle will be closed when, after the first tests have been completed, even the sorting that comes out of these tests is used to achieve a temporary employment grant that completes access, the true inclusion in the public employment of these people. Your Honor, if this is what the Socialist Group calls "decommissioning of public services," this government talks about net creation of squares, which gives us another perspective. So, and generally answering your originally-exposed questions, there is neither the abolition of public jobs nor the privatization of public services nor electoral fraud – which was another of the issues in which you expressed yourself quite a bit. What we've done in Galicia since 2009 has been shielding public services and betting on the stability of public employees, despite the fact that we've met with an increase, both in troops and personnel costs, out of the question. In particular – with all due respect, I say, Your Honor – I think they must abandon the nostalgia they feel for the past. Even though any past time may seem like it was better, I think we should look at the present and the future. You were making a reference to the Strategic Plan. I believe that the Strategic Plan has to read it as a whole, both the diagnosis and the proposals, each and every one of them, with a horizon towards 2020; a horizon that forms part of a hypothesis, which is the consolidation of economic recovery, so that employment is truly generally and increasingly employment. Public employment is just part of that general tone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u233	Thank you very much, Counselor. For the replica round, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u234	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, Counselor, as much as you come here to sell the public job offer, the increase in temporality is a fact. Repeat again: 5,820 employees. The reduction in the office, as another example, is 2,757 fixed jobs, with an increase in the temporality of 1,137. And, I repeat, it's data from the IGE, it's not data that this honourable Member invented. You were talking about Andalusia. Predictable too, Counselor, as you said at the beginning of your intervention. Look, the public job offer of the Board of Andalusia is this year of 8,108 public employment squares. It is the largest public offer in all autonomous communities in this country. Although they will recover the squares that have been lost over the last few years, some squares that have been lost by selective procedures that have been blocked by the application of the state stability legislation, Counsellor. That's a reality. Even so, the Andalusian Board will recover those squares this year. You were also talking about the replacement rate. We have already warned that it would happen when we discussed the budgets, because, although in the law it was collected that the replacement rate would be 100%, the small letter says that this coverage of 100% – in the case of Galicia, not in the case of Andalusia – will be for the vacancies that are generated in 2015. That is, there will not be coverage of all vacant squares produced between 2010 and 2014. Another example, Counselor, is Sergas' public job offer, and it's about a math problem. During the period 2011 to 2015, according to data published in Sergas' human resources management plans, 3,527 vacant squares were produced. And now Junta calls for a public job offer of 818 squares. How many squares are left unplugged? 2,709 squares. In other words, Sergas' public employment offer will only cover 23.2 per cent of the vacancies, a figure which, of course, from the Socialist Group we consider to be absolutely insufficient to meet the needs of the system and the quality of care for patients. I told you, Counselor, that no one believes them anymore. The employees themselves and public employees are convinced that the Autonomous Administration is prepared to make a greater effort to restore the wages cut off from their payrolls, but also the labor rights that have taken them over the past few years, and they come and qualify as voters these measures. In fact, yesterday they concentrated in front of San Caetano to show their inconformity with the latest measures taken by the Union. From the Socialist Group – just as the civil service unions are doing it – we ask them to resume collective negotiation of the same legislation, and that the Union returns to workers and public workers the rights stolen in recent years of cut-off and austerity; that it is constituted, Counsellor, a negotiating table, a negotiating table to deal with the loss of purchasing power accumulated since the year 2012, especially with the reduction of 40% of the specific supplement, or equivalent amount, in the extra payments of 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 – that is by means of a multi-year agreement that restores accumulated debt – in addition to other rights, Counsellor, of a social nature that has been lost during the last few years, such as the elimination of aid from the social action fund, among other cuts. In short, Mr. Counsellor, recruitment policies and working conditions that Mr. Feijóo's government, the government you belong to, are applying to employees and public employees much more like those of a temporary workforce than those of a public agency, which should not only dignify, value and respect the work of employees at his service, but also work to guarantee and improve that fundamental pillar – at least for socialists – for equality and social justice that are our public services. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u235	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. You have the word, for the reply, Mr. Councilman of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u236	Thank you again, Madam President. We all have history. In a selective way, although you're relatively young by age, we all have history, we all have history. You commented on certain measures of this government in 2009, in 2012, related to the general subject of public employment. I think sometimes they have a very selective memory, because there are two great measures that I would like to highlight, also from the crisis stage. I already recognize that in the face of the deepest crisis stage in which we were in 2009 and 2010 they had to be adopted. Recognizing that, you, on the sides of the Socialist Party, few lessons I think they can teach us. Because I don't know if they'll remember that in 2010 there were two major measures. In the first measure I remember the words of that State Secretary of Public Service – I think I remember that he was called Consuelo Rumí, he must remember – that he said that he exceeded 10% in the reposition rate, given the current conditions – she said then – would be little less than irresponsible. We always leave him irresponsible. 10%, and now we're talking about 100% replacement fees for basic services or 50% last year, and everything seems little to them. As well as when they talk about the pay issues that we soon forgot, there's one thing that's on all the payrolls of the public employees and that's not yet recovered, which is 5% of the year 2010 of Government Zapatero. Because everything else, with all the effort that this government fully values... [[Applause]] [[Applause]] So, two questions of a remunerative nature. First of all, the effort as a result of the Central Government, from the 2012 extra. Of the few communities that have agreed with the unions, agreed with the unions, their return. And there are communities at this time – which you also referred to as Andalusia – that well wanted to end when we're done, in September of this year. But also with regard to the year 2013 in the effective recovery from the early January 2017, a year before we had agreed on in our Public Employment Act, a year before we had agreed on in our law. On top of that, once the juridical stage has been clarified in a way agreed with and agreed with the unions, there is no need to read today's DOG to realize what it means to reach agreements with the unions, with three of four, with three of four-- of course, it's not the only one of the agreements we've reached. [[Murmurs.]] Now I'll also tell you what it means to have a normal, normal working relationships subsystem, establishing that everyone defends their ideas but in what it's very possible to reach agreements, agreements like those we come up with on the subject of partial retirements, on public job offers. Curiously always with three out of every four, but what will be done! We even tried with that room. The holiday refund will also be known to you, you can comment on it, and freely available. The theme of temporal selection, which we already had in Sergas, for example, a pact with organizations since 1993, which is a bit behind, and so forth, and so forth. As well as the subject of intellectual disability, the issue of conciliation, the favourable welcome you have on our subject and the vanguard that at some of these points of conciliation is being this administration, as well as in the matter of flexibility and telework. But what I was saying to them, if we remember, therefore, the Government of Zapatero, both on the pay side and on the part of the interim that I assumed the rate that you criticized... because there were two options here, one is the option chosen by the Board of Andalusia, that the decrease I gave him of 17,800 are less busy, to see if we understand it, they're less busy, and now they're trying to get that volume back. That's almost 8% of the template I had at the time. We, 0.5%, in general, and always sitting under a premise, which is to recover, through economic recovery, our income, which makes possible – in a manner also agreed with the unions – on the one hand, firstly fully shielding the welfare state, say health, say education, say social services – as I mentioned earlier – and start recovering the pay issue, which we have perfectly consolidated at this time. So allow me, as a government, to feel very proud of the parameter chosen at the time, which was nothing but stability in public employment. That's why our community is the one that presents a clearer path throughout this period that goes from 2008 to 2016 well advanced. Therefore, Your Honor, I think that, as I told you, it is not good to look in the trunk of memories, as you did, to take this question and bring this interpellation here. The good thing, while you were doing that last week, is that we were negotiating with the unions – which is why I am very grateful to all the unions, even those who didn't sign –. Put in value, let's value this effort that we've made since 2009. The situation is totally different in the year 2016 that we found then, or even the reference it made to the year 2012. At the crisis stage we were able to consolidate our staff paintings in a stable way. In 2014 he began to change things, and in 2015 he began to make it clearer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u237	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u238	So let me tell you that our autonomous community...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u239	Quiet, Mrs. Acuña!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u240	...in that matter it is no longer more than a mirror in which many of the autonomous communities would want to be reflected. And to finish with, with respect to the index of interinternity that you were commenting on, linked to eventuality, right now at Junta is 19.8%. That result is virtually non-community in Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u242	If we take into account that there are alive offers, right now, of employment that go beyond 5,000 squares, and always exhausting the replacement rate at which we are legally bound, let me tell you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u243	Ma'am! I'll call her in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u244	...that I am pleased with the effort made; firstly, by the public employees; secondly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u245	Okay, you have a call to order, Mrs. Acuña. You have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u246	...in trade union organizations; thirdly, for all the people we're dedicated to this. Go ahead, so I think we're on the right line, I think the important thing is not to look at the past, as you do. Let me tell you that with your insanity right now I think you're becoming dizzy, strong dizzy and dizzy. Don't go that way, gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u247	Thank you very much, Counselor. We suspended the session until this afternoon at 4:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u248	We resumed the meeting by discussing the second interpellation. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Union of Galicia in relation to the treatment of waste water
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u249	To formulate the plea, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, today we have formulated this interpellation as a continuation of several questions that we have come up with, specifically in the last year, and which have never received a satisfactory answer. As you know, for several years the European Commission has been warning the Kingdom of Spain and the Autonomous Community of Galicia of the repeated failure to comply with the European guidelines on the treatment of urban waste water. As early as 2003, 13 years ago, the Kingdom of Spain received the first warning, referring at that time to the obligation to purify the water of the populations with more than 10,000 equivalent inhabitants. The slow and insufficient pace of progress over the years has led the European Commission, on a proposal from the Commissioner for the Environment, Maritime Affairs and Fisheries, to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, where it is currently pending and under discussion. It must be remembered, ladies and gentlemen, that the European Union has set as its objective, through the corresponding directive, to achieve 100 per cent of urban waste water purification for all nuclei with more than 2,000 inhabitants equivalent to 31 December 2005; I repeat: 31 December 2005. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that it was Mr. Touriño's fault, that he was the President of the Board since July of that year, and that he was the one who breached the European directive in the five months that he had been in charge. But the fact is that, ten and a half years have passed since the end of that date, today we understand that the European directive is still not complied with. Therefore, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have repeatedly asked three questions: First question: how many and what are the populations of more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants that have EDAR? Second question: which of these EDARs are in operation and which are they not? And the third question is, what is today the percentage of water treated with respect to waste water collected? I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that from the third question we never got an answer, absolutely nothing. The question was raised and the written answers to this parliamentary group were referred, not a line was dedicated, not even if it was intended to give an answer to this question. We know that a very important volume of urban waste water is being poured into the channels of rivers and our undisturbed, untreated rivers, with the consequences of all known. We don't know what it is, we don't know what the percentage is or what the volume is. It's 100,000? Is it 200,000 cubic metres daily? That's 300,000? We don't know him, Counselor. The second question, he never got an answer either. We don't know how many of the EDARs built are in real operation or not. We don't know. Even those that seem like they're in real operation sometimes. And the most scandalous case is that of the Ferrol River, which was passing the receipt to the citizens of Ferrol, one day we found out that the receipt was charged, but not the waters were cleared, but they were poured into the Ferrol River without debugging. And the third question is the only one who received a reasonable, non-direct answer, because we were asking how many EDARs there are and how many are in operation. And what we're told is that there are 96% of those corresponding to the nuclei between 2000 inhabitants and 14,999. And we figure that means there's 85 that exist and 3 that don't exist. And they tell us that in the nucleus of more than 15,000 inhabitants 96% are installed. As there are 52, we suppose 50 yes and 2 no. Therefore, Counselor, we hope to obtain a concrete answer to our questions today. And I'm going to repeat them if there's any doubt: what percentage of the debugger stations are working – I repeat, working – today in the urban agglomerations of 2,000 equivalent inhabitants, and in the more than 15,000?, where are they located? Or, to simplify, where is there? Thirdly, what is today the percentage of waste water seen without debugging, the percentage and the approximate number of cubic metres daily? I would expect you to give us a concrete answer to these three questions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u251	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u252	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Your Honor, I hope you have the opportunity to answer your questions, this round of interpelerations, which makes me. Because, in fact, as I spoke in the written interpellation, it's an important issue, it's not a Baladi theme, and I particularly appreciate it giving the Government the opportunity to show their commitment to improve the quality of our waters. I'm sure I'm not going to talk about Tourin, I'm not talking about Mr. Zapatero's responsibilities. You know very well, as I did, that since that letter since 2003, when it was warned to the Kingdom of Spain, because indeed Mr. Zapatero was Mr. Touriño, and now we are. But I'll figure out what the Government of Galicia has done since 2009 to improve the quality of our waters. And indeed, what we did was to invest all the resources we had precisely for the treatment of water. This government is aware that one of the great wealth we have in our community is our rivers and our rivers, and that is why we have invested the greatest – and I say it with capitals – investment in the history of our community in this matter. In fact, since 2009, our community has invested 1,100 million euros – I repeat, 1,100 million euros – in sanitation, purification and supply actions. And I can say with roundabout that no government has previously invested in and allocated so much resources to this. And I'm not saying that this is enough and that it's all absolutely clear, because we know and know that we need to keep working. But you will have, Your Honor, to recognize, that we are talking about a historical budget, an important budget, at a time of great economic difficulty for all administrations. By making a comparison and being able to have a reference to what we're talking about, twenty-five years ago, in our community, in Galicia, there was nothing more to waste than for 10,000 neighbors. Twenty-five years ago, before the '90s, 10,000 neighbors were the ones who had the chance to have the waters purified. Today, and after twenty-five years, with all the debuggers that we have and that are active in our community, there's the ability to debug the waters of more than 3.5 million equivalent people. Higher figure, clearly, to the inhabitants of our community. But I don't intend to say that there are no areas left without debugging, since this is not so, and hence the approval of the hydrological plan for the Galician demarcation recently last December. These figures hide a great piece of work behind us and which, of course, has finally contributed to improving the quality of our waters, since those over EUR 1 billion since the year 2009 we were talking about allowed 350 performances in 160 municipalities to be carried out. I mean, for you to make an idea, Mr. Bugallo, we're talking about an average of nearly 5 sanitation performances per month. Twenty-five years ago – and I refer again to that date – Galicia had only one large debugger on its way. And today we have 160 debuggers in operation, which is a very important and very necessary advance. Of the 160 debuggers that are currently in operation, active – which I will then provide you with the map to know your location, which is part of the questions you ask – 39 were asked by this government. With these new infrastructures created since 2009, with these 39, we serve more than 1.2 million Greeks and Greeks, that is, almost half of the Greeks in our community. Our efforts can be quantified. All of these actions made it possible that the percentage of water currently in good condition in the Galicia-cost demarcation would go from 70%, which was like it was in 2009, to 77.5%. An effort that, of course, we are giving priority also to our laughs, since, since 2009, of these 1,100 million, 600 have been invested to improve the state of our laughs. This made it possible for the quality of the waters in the rivers of Greece to be improved by 10% more. Today, in our rivers, there are 73 debuggers that could treat water of more than 2.2 million inhabitants. They could, we're talking about equivalent inhabitants, which is the capacity that these debuggers have. Of course, we're still working, because, as I said, we've reached a 77% high-quality state of the masses of our waters, but the main goal is to achieve 100%. And that's why – so it actually leaves the manifesto – that when we get to the Government we had to do a water planning again, and today we can say that we've already done our planning duties in front of the European Union. That's why it never ceases to be surprising, in some way, to talk about goals, in the written question, marked for the year 2005; because, obviously, from that until now, it's done quite a lot. Today we met the European Union in planning matters, something that didn't happen when it ruled the Bipartite in the United Nations. In order to achieve this European level, from the Government of the United Nations we are bet on a new hydrological plan signed in December last year, from 2015 to 2021; the plan that comes to give continuity and broaden the previous one, the one in 2009, and thanks to which we have solid water planning for the next six years. This planning is accompanied by an investment of 655 million euros; of which, 423 million euros will be from Galician Union. Much of this economic effort of the plan will obviously be destined for new sanitation infrastructures, not to mention this new planning of our rivers, where we will invest in the coming years 131 million euros for the sanitation of our rivers; of course, the Burgo, Arousa, Ferrol, Pontevedra and others. Even so, since 2009 we have been carrying out strict control for the elimination of pollutants in the Galicia-cost demarcation, a spill control plan that is a fundamental tool for, of course, eliminating them; especially those that are contaminating. And we can now report that there are 8,600 inventory points, that is, five times more than there were in 2009. But it's not because there's more point of dumping, but because it's now being inspected and it wasn't inspected before. That's right. In fact, three out of every four points of inventory, which is an important fact also to point out in this community, are not contaminants. I'm now going to answer the specific questions of this plea to try to clarify your lordship's doubts. What percentage of debugger stations is working today for urban agglomerations of more than 2,000 inhabitants, as well as more than 15,000? Today, in Galicia, we have 121 urban agglomerations of more than 2,000 inhabitants. Of which 79 have fewer than 15,000 inhabitants and 42 have more than 15,000 inhabitants. In view of this data, 99% – 99% – of the agglomerations of between 2,000 and 15,000 equivalent inhabitants currently have an EDAR. In fact, right now the only agglomeration of more than 2,000 equivalent inhabitants that does not have an EDAR is Poio, Poio-Raxó in particular, due to lack of provision of the municipality's own land, not because of lack of investment. In fact, in the budgets of the year 2016, a specific budget game is envisaged for this debugger and we are waiting for its placement. And as for the agglomerations of more than 15,000 inhabitants equivalent, 100% of these agglomerations have to date EDAR. Instead of where they are located and where they are, you could talk about the list of 160 debuggers. But I think we could extend this interpellation too much, so I'm going to make it easier for you, if you'll allow me, Your Honor, a map with the 160's placement, so you can get it here and so you have all the information about each one's location. As for the third question, what today is the percentage of water treated with respect to the total water collected?, this data, of course, as you were also mayor, I am convinced that you know him well. Because I guess you, when you talk about waste water collected, you're talking about the water that collects the municipal sanitation networks. And, therefore, the residual water that enters the collectors of the municipalities' networks, the networks of the municipality's sewers, you know very well that they are unitary, which also implies that the municipal waste water also collects the industrial, rain and other sources and, therefore, it is quite difficult to evaluate what is the water treated from the collected waste water. First because the data of what waste water is collected does not have it by the competent body on water, because it is a data with direct information from the municipalities, and secondly, the data that you can know Waters, and in fact it can have, is treated water. It is true that we can have information about it. But to talk about the percentage of the collected waters, when it's a municipal competition, because it's obviously very difficult now. However, from Waters we are working on this matter, always within our competences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u253	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u254	...to continue progressing in planning and obviously to comply with Community directives, and, of course, to improve and achieve that 100% good quality of the water masses of our community in this new hydrological plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u255	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u256	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for the information you provide. However, there are at least three details that I would like to make. The first one, for example, is about water in good state and bad state. You say we now have 77% in good condition and in 2009 it was only 70%, I think exactly 70.6% was what was in 2009. Do you know what that means? That 23% of Galician waters are recognizing that they're in bad condition, and that's a figure that's still huge. You're talking to me about 8,600 inventory points. Well, that means 8,600 spill points today. So, with regard to waste water treatment stations and population data of less than 2,000 inhabitants and 15,000 people, the truth is that this is a mess. Look, I have here the answer that you give us on April 1, 2016, i.e., first of all, I don't think they've changed things so much. You talk to me of 79 nuclei in more than 2,000 inhabitants and in less than 15,000; here you speak of 88. He talks to me of 42 in more than 15,000, and here he talks of 52. Well, I don't know if they follow the same people who made the reply in writing. I'll give you, if you like, the log number or I'll give you a copy of the reply, but the truth is, the written answer and the reply received today doesn't match. By the way, with regard to the volume of purified waste water, we are convinced that they don't know how many are. We don't know, either, and that's why we want to know. What I have to say to you is that in the diagnosis of the socio-economic and territorial situation of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which was prepared by the Business Council and which is listed as complementary documentation of the Strategic Plan 2015-2020, the Business Council says 85.27%. I don't know where they get that data. It seems quite surprising to us, it doesn't coincide with the estimates that we can do, and I appreciate the sincerity that you tell us here that you really don't know how much it is, which is what seems to us to be happening. What I don't know, then, is why the Business Council – which doesn't look like the competent part in this matter either – is the figure in such a specific figure, 85.27%; that is, it's extraordinary. I already thought it was quite surprising this data from the Fairy Council. Finally, I want to tell you something important: 67 beaches across Spain have been declared inappropriate for the bathroom, 67 for Spain and 41 for Galicia. It means that of every three beaches in Spain that are not considered suitable for the bathroom, two are in Galicia. This is a barbarity, and this barbarity unites, Counselor, to the states of gravity that we live in laughs like Ferrol's, with severe pollution, even heavy metals; to the situation of severe pollution such as that we live in the Burgo laugh, and that I find that you know better than anyone; and even to the serious problems that have occurred lately in the Arousa stream, and that I would like to be sure that pollution had nothing to do with those emergent problems, for not speaking of Pontevedra's laugh. It is clear that, since 31 December 2005, which was the date on which the deadline laid down in the European directive for the treatment of 100% of waste water was completed, 11 years later, despite the efforts made, despite these EUR 1 billion of what you are talking about, despite the 350 actions promoted, we are far from achieving the minimum desirable results, Counsellor. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u257	Thank you, Mrs Bugallo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u258	Good afternoon again, gentlemen. By continuing his intervention, I was actually saying in my speech that we had 77% of the water masses of our community classified by the European Union, after the parameters that we are being evaluated, in good quality. And indeed, we have that 23% that are in bad quality, and hence a new hydrological plan approved in December and that's why and from there new 655 million euros specifically intended to improve the quality of our waters and achieve that final goal, which cannot be another – hence this advisor – that is to reach that 100% of the water masses in good quality. Also by clarifying a little what I think is a misunderstanding, which is the 8,600 points of dumping that we have in our inventory community, and that we actually now know them because we have a plan of inspection and surveillance that not only obeys alerts that can be collected but even a planning that we have from the department, these 8,600 points of dumping there are ones, but contaminants are three out of four. I mean, it's just a thousand peaks. I mean, it can be a spill, and that's not why it hurts the environment, it doesn't hurt the laugh or anything like that, and so it's classified by all the parameters that we're asked to evaluate according to the river or the river where we are. You're also talking about the quality of our beaches and our waters. I think Galicia has one of its main treasures precisely on our coast, and I think it's good that we know and that we also defend high and clear that it's not such an amazing figure, that reading you want to give it. Because Galicia is the second community, after Canary Islands, which has more kilometers of beach and more kilometers of coastline. In fact, it's from the most beaches in the Spanish state. But, moreover, Galicia is one of the most demanding communities of itself to control the quality of the waters; which certainly recommends to us the municipalities, which are those that mark the quality control points of the waters on each beach, to the point that we ourselves do double the quality assessment of the waters of the beaches that make Canarias. We are interested in them, because we want to ensure, with maximum security, that the quality of our waters is the best. But the truth is, of the more than 400 beaches we have in our community, 447, only 5% are classified as insufficient, that is, only 5% are part of that ratio. And indeed, we have more for the evil but also for the good. More than that, 77% of the beaches in our community are catalogued excellent, something I think, Your Honor, that you may feel particularly proud, because it is an international reference which is Galicia as to the quality of its waters on the beaches – which, by the way, does not take it to the Environmental Council, which leads you to the Health Council, but well, it is the same, that we give the same answer. In short, Your Honor, we're not here to hide anything. The information I send you is true information. The situation in which the EDARs are in operation in our community I hope that it will arrive soon, after the information I gave to the President of Parliament. Today Galicia reports, thanks to the commitment of the Government of Galicia since 2009, with 39 more debuggers, which I think is important to highlight, and which knows them very well any of the mayors of their political formation, because there are many of them in their councils. Galicia actually did what the European Union had to say about planning; not today. We have to keep moving forward to improve the quality of our waters, and from there – I insist – that new hydrological plan. All the agglomerations of more than 15,000, 100 percent, count to this day with a debugger. 99% of the agglomerations of more than 2,000 inhabitants, between 2,000 and 15,000, have already been cleared. One missing because the placement is missing. The budget for this year's Board already has the budget for that debugger. And, as I told you, we're going to move forward in something that, as you said in your intervention, is not baladi, or much less, which is to guarantee that quality of good water, because it is to guarantee our well-being and guarantee our health, and of course it is also to guarantee the economic development of such an important sector, as is that of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u259	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Antón Sánchez García from G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left on the results of the milk agreement
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u260	Mr. Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u261	Well, good afternoon. I have here a teletype from the EFE Agency that says "Judge Velasco sees powerful indications that Granados collected to fund the People's Party. The former Madrid counselor reflected on one of his notebook pages payments to the former PP manager, Beltran Gutiérrez, of EUR 3.4 million..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u262	Quiet, quiet! And the interrogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u263	"The Civil Guard has already pointed out in a report the possibility that Granados would be responsible for collecting third party commissions, to fund electoral campaigns, and that he and his chief of staff, Ignacio Palacios, would have part of the money collected for the party...".
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u264	We've all read that, Mr. Sanchez. That's already read later. Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u265	"...making gala of the Spanish refran, who departs and divides..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u266	That's already read later. Teletypes read to us every Member of Parliament, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u267	How?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u268	Teletypes read to us all Members. Now we're for questioning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u269	"In this sense, an indiscriminate use of the public company of the Community of Madrid Arpegio and the Arpegio Foundation has been detected..."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u270	I'll call the matter, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u271	I hope you don't call me in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u272	No, I'm calling the question. I'm calling the question. You know that the three calls to the question involve the withdrawal of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u273	And how many have I got, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u274	Take one.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u275	And you sing, in all the legislation, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u276	No, today he's just taking a call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u277	I just wanted to draw attention to what you called me in order to say that the People's Party was a corrupt party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u278	That's right. I'll call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u279	And if you like, then I'll have to bring a teletype to every fill so you can convince yourself that what I said before was not a lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u280	No, no, it's not to dialogue that question. The People's Party is not a corrupt party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u281	Well, he looks a lot like you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u282	The People's Party may have some corrupt people in its ranks, as in other parties, but I don't agree, that I am fighting in the People's Party, that you call me corrupt, or these Members here. So this is it, and I think we must leave the thing clear, Mr. Sanchez, in order not to follow this line. And, please, go to the interrogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u283	Mr. President, I suppose in Valencia there are many militants and voters of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u284	Don't talk to me about Valencia, talk to me about the interrogation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u285	...that they are honest, that they are not corrupt, just as there are many Members and Members in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u286	That's why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u287	...that they're not corrupt, and instead, there's a judge in Valencia who says the People's Party in Valencia is organized to commit crime, and he had seven boxes B.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u288	Please, go to the interrogation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u289	Well, let's record that here's called the order to tell the truth. Counsellor, this is an inquiry into the situation of the dairy sector, after that – if only historical – agreement which the People's Party announced in September, and which would improve the situation of the dairy sector. There's no time left for you to fly. They have already destroyed the dairy sector, the countryside and the countryside of this irreparable country. You beat the record of job destruction in the agricultural and forestry sector. While in the Spanish state 8% of jobs were destroyed in this sector, you have multiplied by four rates of destruction, and you have destroyed 32% of jobs since you arrived. In this country, so in need of productive activities to give life to rural people, they continue to close dairy farms, and they do not close precisely because the owners did not do their duties, they shut down farms that in other countries or other regions would not close, they shut down farms because there is a government that does not do their duties. We're still charging the lowest price for the entire Spanish state. Two and a half years later, prices continue to be charged under the cost of production. There is a global crisis at European level due to excess production, but, in this context, three cents below, which is the difference between the price in Galicia and other Spanish and European regions, is the difference between being able to survive or not, and that difference is achievable to its policies. We've been waiting for the results of that historic agreement that improved the agreement in France since September. I want you to tell me what were the results so far of that agreement, what were the impacts it had on the life and economy of the gain. Mr Feijóo went and showed himself as a guarantor of two agreements in this legislation, in 2013 –finals of 2012 – and on this last September; he himself said he was a guarantor of the fulfilment of that agreement. Immediately after that he ceased to look, in an area which, as he said, would be a priority for this legislation. Counsellor, the situation is still dramatic. What will be the future of the sector and the gain if these prices and conditions continue to be like this? What do you plan on doing to Galician Union? What was it about this great industrial project for 2016 that Mr. Francisco Conde announced at the 2016 budget appearance, that great Icos and Lasurgal project? What has the Galician Union planned to do to balance the bargaining power between the livestock and the industry? What do you think about the current need to regulate production, when less than a year and a half ago you were praising the approach of the common agricultural policy, which meant liberalisation and that you were saying that it was going to lead to an increase in Galician production and an increase in exports? What happens now when it is said that production needs to be regulated, as many voices have warned, and instead of being organized, the cuts in production are centred on a very important part of the yellow sheep, in that 20% of the yellow sheep who charge less than 22 cents for their litre of milk? And you know well that within this 20% there are no exploits that you consider to be marginal; there are basically: large, small, medium. It's a relocating and planning of dairy production, but instead of being made from public administrations, it's done from the distribution industry. We've transferred public decision-making power to private enterprise, private industry. What about the measures to know the origin of milk? What was that sustainable price? And what was the surveillance of illegal milk entries, Counselor? We believe that, in order for this country to have a future, its rural has to have a future, and we do not imagine a future rural with this rate of destruction of jobs in rural areas. And what I'm saying is not rebutable data, it's official data. That is, in the years that you have been ruling, more than 1 in 3 jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector have been destroyed; you have no comparison throughout the state, Counsellor. How do you intend, however much of the demographics you want to ask, to give this country a future if they do not offer alternatives both in the dairy sector and in the rest of the agricultural sectors? I hope you answered exactly what I asked you, what were the effects of the September agreement? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u290	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u291	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I come here to answer what I'm asked, not just to have a headline from some media, to say that someone goes out on the street calling someone corrupt or not corrupt. Like the president said, I'm not prepared to call myself corrupt, but neither me nor many of my colleagues. Regardless of this, we're going to what we were asked, and therefore we're going to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u292	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u293	And, within the answers, say we must remember: the year 2008 – it did not rule the People's Party, ruled others – 975 abandonments, 975 farms that closed. At that time there were milk chops, and yet the brake was none. You should also give an answer. Regardless of this, and because we cannot speak of milk and milk agreement without contextualizing the situation in which we find ourselves, and to begin with serious data, we will also have to say the following: the average price of Spain, 29.8 cents; Galician price, 27.9 cents; Netherlands price, 27.5 cents; Great Britain, 27.2 cents; Germany, 25.7 cents; Ireland, 23.2 cents; France, 28.4 cents. I'm saying that because we have a reality of what's happening at the international level. A European context in a free market without quotas, a context in which Galician milk prices move around 28 cents/litre. A context in which Galicia has been prepared to increase milk production with an increase of 55,000 livestock heads between 2014 and 2015, and, of course, as we well know – and I suppose you also know – circumstances well beyond those of our Autonomous Community have provided expectations that do not correspond to reality. Those 55,000 heads that bought our livestock in 2014 and 2015, at the end of that free market, met with a Russian veto, met with a low demand from the Chinese market, met with a decline in domestic consumption. That's the reality. But, having said this, and returning to your question, in September, indeed, the agreement was signed for the stability and sustainability of the value chain of the Galician milk sector. And at that moment President Feijóo presented himself as an avalanche, and President Feijóo continues to face, he doesn't hide behind anyone. The participation of the various organizations in the dairy agreement was voluntary, but, logically, in order to be able to participate actively in it, they had to sign the agreement before. I'll also tell you that those who haven't signed the agreement now are doing their best to sign it, which we're glad about, because that was the message we sent to you from the Rural Councillory: it's best to be inside to demand that it wasn't just to criticize. Initially, by the producer sector they signed the following organisations: the Agri-Food Cooperatives, Asaja and the Association of Milk Producers. The agreement was created as an integrative document and therefore permanently open to new incorporations. As I told you, new incorporations, that are taking place in time. Since the signature, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and the Environment has prepared and published quarterly reports, of which I imagine you have knowledge. The latter, in mid-April, due to the requirements of industries, companies, associations and signatory organizations, and also to the requirements of those organizations that did not sign. This latter report reflects the work done by the parties and exposes the degree of progress achieved in meeting the targets marked since September. Of course, we would like it to be better, but if we could just remember again: the price of Galicia, 27.9; the price of Holland, 27.5; Ireland, 23.2; Britain, 27.2. Ladies and gentlemen, the report notes that significant progress has been made. In order to analyse the sector, it is appropriate to examine the conditions of the present, which operate different causes in the field of this sector. The production of milk has, until March 2016, continued to increase over the same months of the previous year. This increase in supply, of course, makes it difficult to improve the situation, as problems are increasing for the placement of higher production, by not increasing consumption, and we are all aware that this is so. The price charged by the glover in the last few months in Galicia is stagnant. The trend followed by the price is making us already above the Community average. Does that mean we're happy? Not at all. As is well known, the current set of low prices takes place not only in Galicia and Spain, but also in the context of the European Union, because the market is global, and the situation is largely the result of the increase in production and the lack of balance between supply and demand, both at the national and Community level and outside the Community. The volume of milk consumed in the homes in January 2016 was significantly reduced from December to 3.39 %, and very significantly from January 2015; the fall is 10.6%. If, in general terms, between distribution channels maintain market shares, there are some changes in January, with a decrease in sales of hypermarket format and an increase in supermarkets and self-services. The work carried out in these six months has made it possible for commitments that can be considered to be met, or with a very significant degree of progress, and whose effects have already begun to be found, and we hope that they will be more perceptible as the year 2016 progresses, highlighting the following aspects. It is already operational, after the agreement between all the agents, the impact resolution protocol, launched to channel complaints about practices that ban milk before the consumer, whose objective is to ensure that all the agents respond quickly to these situations. Before trivialization was a regular thing, and now it's exceptional, as we all have checked. But at the moment it's detected, it's sanctioned and, therefore, it's taken away. The work carried out in Inlac on the content of the contract type purchase of raw milk allowed the approval by the Magram of that contract. This gives greater transparency and security to transactions between the owner and the industry. This contract is already starting to be used in the new contracts, which are being carried out right now, and is being monitored. Inlac has set out the criteria to be taken into account by industry and distribution to ensure Spanish origin of milk, and there is an agreement to initiate the commitment to value the Spanish origin of our milk. The report concludes with different findings regarding the fulfilment of the commitments made by the signatory companies and associations, such as the information provided to the Map by the signatory companies. Although the price assignment decree has not yet been published, it was of a total of 32 industries that gave the price data that they sell to the distribution in relation to those that joined, which were a total of 35, as well as 19 related distribution companies. It can be seen that since the start of the agreement there has been a significant improvement in the value of milk. As I said before, milk is used as a banalization now becomes an anecdote, when before September it was common in most supermarkets and hypermarkets and even in the shops of different villages. In our specific case, we have obtained the collection commitment of all producers in the same amount of delivery milk as in 2015. Progress has been made by the Confederation of Agri-Food Cooperatives to promote the mergers of livestock cooperatives, after several days and meetings to raise awareness of their importance. It's done at the national level – that's what the report says – and it's also done in our community. It is not true that significant progress could not be made in organisation and social integration. On the other hand, over the last three months, one of the eight organisations of dairy producers has been dissolved at the national level. You know that in the case of Galicia we have two organizations with which the two of us together would have more than 30% of our organized owners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u295	And that's where we are, trying to raise awareness that must be the case. And that must be the case, among other things, because these are the guidelines that mark us by the European Commission. This is the report, the report that is public and that you are sure you have the opportunity to meet and I remember them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u297	Well, good afternoon. I always differentiate politics from personal matters, I never personalize unless I have something contrasted when I accuse corruption. But I can read another headline from El País: "The Valencian PP acted as a criminal group according to the research of Operation Table." That doesn't mean that all militants of the People's Party are corrupt or not honored. Now, Operation Tabula's investigation says the People's Party was acting... as a criminal organization. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u298	On the issue, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u299	Yes, this is a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u300	No, no, on the question of questioning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u301	Yeah, neither the question in the morning was the Tide...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u302	The question of interrogation. This subject has been discussed before. [[Murmurs.]] On the question of questioning, Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And don't go with this, I'm talking to him, please. That's good! [[Murmurs.]] I'm talking to Mr. Sánchez. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Then, please, Mr. Sánchez, on the matter. Article 104.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u303	I'm replying to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u304	No, no, but I don't need you to answer me. You answer to the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u305	Mr. Santalices, that you weren't corrupt, because I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u306	No, no, we've already cleared up you and I on that subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u307	But you called me in order...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u308	No, no, I didn't call him in order, I called him in.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u309	...this morning because I said that the People's Party was a corrupt party, and I say, "The Valencian PP acted...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u310	And I told him not to, and that's why I called him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u311	...as a criminal group,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u312	Well, let's get to the point, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u313	...and this paper has no complaint from the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u314	Yes, Mr. Sanchez, on the matter, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u315	I'm already on it. I'm as concerned as Mr. Feijó in the morning, I'm more or less on that question. This is milk. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u316	We're talking about it, we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u317	Counsellor, yes sir, yes sir, I understand that there are some things that choose... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u318	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u319	...but with what we have to listen to and endure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u320	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u321	...this, they should have a little more silence, a little more silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u322	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u323	Yes, man, of course. At least I'm in Valencia, I'm not in Venezuela, eh! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u324	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u325	I'm in Valencia, five miles away, not Venezuela. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u326	Quiet. To the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u327	Every time they get like this, I'm very glad, ladies of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u328	Even the children are scared. Look at the audience, even the children are scared.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u329	I like it very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u330	Look what picture we give, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u331	At least they hear some truth.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u332	Even the children are scared. For God's sake, go to the point, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u333	Well, Counselor, –I'm trying to talk –... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u334	Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Quiet. I know the plenary was long, but silence, please. We have a children's audience up there and I don't think it's very good the picture we're giving. I ask everyone to give us a better picture. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please. [[Murmurs.]] Please. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, you understand the message if you want to take it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u335	I've been asking the People's Party for a better image for a long time and they haven't paid much attention to me, the truth. Well, Counsellor, doing past bull tests is nothing useful for the sector, it's nothing useful for the sector. I appreciate all the data. It's true that I asked you about the effects of the dairy agreement, but when you justify the situation in a past bull analysis, that doesn't make any use of the dairy sector. When did you have to do a future analysis? Before the negotiations on the common agricultural policy. And you, before the negotiations of the last renewal of the common agricultural policy, haven't made a plan for the Greek milk sector, a strategic plan to adapt it to the circumstances that were foreseen in a liberalized market without quotas. It was at that time when they had to do the analysis that it was what the livestock needed to be able to compete on equal terms at least with their surroundings, and you didn't, they didn't make that strategic plan. In the years prior to the liberalisation of the dairy sector in Europe, investments were made on the whole of the European continent by EUR 5 billion in industrial projects. In Galicia, how much, Counselor? The 8 million you dumped in milk? That was your industrial plan for a quotaless market. So the analyses will have to do them in time and come in time. Well, you said there were significant advances whose effects are already beginning to be noticed. What are the effects you're starting to notice, Counselor? What are those effects, in terms of price, that are what interests the owners? Since September, what has been the improvement in the price of the liter of milk, Counselor? You tell me price comparisons. Home!, Ireland's conditions are not the same as Galicia's conditions, among other things because in Galicia you have not done your duty to prepare a sector so as not to depend so much on the inputs and thoughts you have to buy. In Ireland, yes, Counsellor, that's why they can sell milk at 23.7 cents and be profitable to them, of course. But you can't compare what you didn't do here.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u337	You can't compare me to New Zealand, Counselor. Significant advances. Counsellor, what sanctions were there in Galicia for sale for loss or use of milk as a claim? How many sanctions? Tell me: How many euros in sanctions were placed in Galicia to avoid selling to losses or using milk as a claim product? I don't know any, Counselor. In that case, in the legislation since the year 96 there was the possibility...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u338	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u339	...that the Board had intervened when there were cases of loss of sales and use as a claim product, and you have never acted, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u340	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u341	Is it worth anything to Galician Union?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u342	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u343	Do you have any use for your counseling in the dairy sector, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u344	Your time is up, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u345	Does it have any use?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u347	What can they do? What measures can you take? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u348	Thank you. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u349	Thank you, Mr. President. I see that you, Mr. Sánchez, don't care much about the dairy sector, which is what I'm talking about here today, when you're having fun for I don't know if five, six... half the time, speaking of Mr. Feijóo. That you are obsessed with Mr. Feijóo, that I am here to answer about milk; obsessed with Mr. Feijóo and obsessed with the People's Party, and these fights are in another way. And indeed, as we have seen and we can see from day to day, we must have a minimum of respect, with regard to ourselves, to focus on what we have seen and above all not to give decent shows, and that this is the basis of our children's education. [[Murmurs.]] Above all, that. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] From then on, I'll tell you what the Galician board does, which is what the Middle Rural Council is doing for agriculture. [[Applause]] First, respect him; second, he works; and from there, when he has to tell truths, days, as in today. I compare what prices are. When in Ireland it was 37 cents, they said it was a barbarity what was happening in Galicia; now it turns out that, as they're under Galicia, that doesn't matter, and there they can produce another way that we don't produce here. I mean, we always have to give it a little bit back to see if the tortilla is more or less juicy. Regardless of this, I'm going to tell you what the Rural Middle Council is doing and what it's for the Rural Middle Council. Among other things, to achieve something that has never been achieved before, which is to put in place the plan for strengthening the dairy sector. When the industry, distribution, cooperatives, professional and agricultural organizations first sit on a table, that's the first. But along with them, there's also LIGAL, and there's also Cegacol, and the basic lines are set for a future. You've worked a lot, go if you've worked a lot! There's nothing else to go to our country and see how it lived years ago and now that the farms have become real industries. And it's advanced in all directions. It is true that the sector is living a moment more than delicate, in a place that is Galicia and in a context that is the European Union, where consumption goes down, where livestock heads and liters are growing and therefore the market situation is not easy. Despite all this and that it is not easy, the Greek Government has made available to the Observatory of the Milky Sector of Galicia, with which we are always in constant relation and correlation to take the appropriate measures the Rural Environment Council and the sector. And the sector that, in addition, has a government that cares about it, and in that sense tells you that it's not just about producing more, it's about making production cheaper than a globalized world where there's more competition. And for that, since January, we have the tool to mobilize abandoned and unproductive lands through zero taxes in rural areas. These zero taxes in rural have benefited 1,200 livestock, the vast majority of the province of Lugo and Coruña. Together with zero taxes in rural areas, I'm telling you, from September to today, 420 million euros were allocated. I can remind them, for example, 25 million euros from the Government at the Spanish level, another 20 million euros more so they could have liquidity. And that is, on the one hand, the Community and the national sphere, but Galicia has not stayed behind, and has not stayed behind since it made available liquidity for our sector. On the one hand, it was EUR 1 million that was injected into the sector, so that all those young people who joined for two years don't have to pay either amortization or interest – those who requested it – beneficiaries, 1,100 holders. To this we must add the EUR 1.6 million available until 31 October 2016 through Igape, to an end: a partnership agreement signed between Igape and financial institutions and mutual guarantee companies, establishing a line of aid directed at the refinancing of liabilities and the support of the circular. And last week it was announced at the Board of Trustees of EUR 3 million more for the owners of the holdings with an end. And that goal is that those who have financial difficulties either with the banking entity or with their suppliers can ask for it. Because we know that by the month of September, the situation will start to improve, but, in the meantime, we have to help, help our creditors have liquidity. In this sense, we're working, apart from the 26 million euros we've spent this year on partial mergers, so they have a larger territorial base. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u350	Thank you, Counselor. We enter the last item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. There's not enough left. Question by D. Pedro Puy Fraga, from G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the recent institutional journey of Mr. President of the Union of Galicia to Cuba
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u351	Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u352	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Between 26 and 29 May, the President of the Galicia Union held an institutional visit to Cuba, in addition to presiding over the 11th plenary session of the Council of the Galician Communities on the outside, which developed in the emblematic and historic Centre Galego da Habana, he held important meetings with the Cuban Government, including President Raúl Castro, the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Ricardo Cabrisas, and other authorities. In just five weeks it has to be said that the President of the Union has recently made institutional travels at the highest level with the President of the Argentine Republic, with the President of Uruguay and with the President of the Republic of Cuba; institutional travels that undoubtedly reinforce Galicia's role in the world and show the ability of our autonomous community to perform effective external, respectful and consistent action with the constitutional and statutory framework. On his journey to the Republic of Cuba, President Feijóo presided over the plenary session of the Galician Council of Communities abroad, in which representatives of all the Greek communities abroad participated, in order to strengthen the galeguity among the Greeks that form part of the more than one hundred centres and houses of Galicia scattered around the world. And yet, the visit included participation in the Cuba-Galicia Economic Forum and continued meetings with Cuban communities at the highest level, agreeing to the signing of a memorandum for collaboration between the Republic of Cuba and the Autonomous Community of Galicia in economic, agri-food, energy biotechnology or even ICT. Even so, according to the media, a memorandum from the Ministry of Culture of Cuba was signed to consolidate the historical and cultural ties between the people of Galicia and Cuba. We think it's a fruitful journey, but in any case, Counsellor, we want to know what the valuation of this trip from the Government of Galicia is made by the President of Galicia to Cuba. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u353	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u354	Thank you very much, President. Well, indeed, Mr. Moreira, the travels that have been carried out by both the President of the Galician Union and... (Interruption.) [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u355	We suspend the full, if they want, momentarily, so that the questions can be asked. Let's have some respect for who he's talking about. [[Murmurs.]] That's another subject. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Whenever you want, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Mr. Moreira told you, they know that years ago, and especially in recent years, the travels of both the President of Galicia, especially, but also of the members of the Government of the Union, they come focused on various areas, because several are the areas that affect Galicia and the Greeks and the Greeks who live outside Galicia and who need this support from here too to develop in those countries, and Galicia needs them to take advantage of all the potential they have to be there. So this trip of the President of Galicia, like the recent trip to the Republic of Argentina and Uruguay, just a month earlier, had a first aspect of visiting communities. Of course, we have a lot of Greeks and Greeks who are still living there, who still feel Galicia in a very deep way, who are still exercising Greek, and so that's a potential that we should never lose and that we should take care of. That was the first goal of the trip. There's also an economic aspect. There's no need to hide it. Cuba is right now at a time when all the countries of the world judge as very attractive to start working with them to open up new markets, to offer itself as a bridge of everything that can reach from Europe to a market that is clearly opening up. And so we have to take advantage of the potential of Galicia's presence for many years to work on that issue too. And finally, there is also a political-institutional aspect, which is logically closely related to the other two, and which led to the President of the Council of Galicia being received by the highest cultural leaders, in economic matters, in relation to external relations of the Cuban Government; responsible who did not receive, on the other hand, and I think they tried, many representatives from many countries. The President of Galicia was welcomed by all of them and finally ended up being received by the highest representative of Cuba, I think in a clear gesture of consideration to which Galicia represents in Cuba, which means the figure of the first representative of the Greeks to visit the Republic of Cuba and, ultimately, to the consideration and to the doors that open to Galicia at a particularly interesting moment in Cuba, which we must take advantage of. That was the reason for the trip. So always mix contact with the Greeks, with the presence they have there, mix the maintenance of the cultural ties that explain everything else, the maintenance of the roots that we have there very deep; and finally take advantage of institutional contacts to open up doors to the Greek economy at a time when we are expanded through export and therefore open up a new market that we cannot waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u357	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. There is nothing left to congratulate the Government of Galicia, with its president in charge, first of all, for having an institutional agenda, which other leaders of other parties do not have, having an institutional agenda that clearly reflects what commitments are, what objectives are, and what may be the return to the Greeks. That's what these trips are for and they're not for other things. [[Murmurs.]] We want him to tell us a little bit more often what valuations are made of the economic transcendence to Galicia of this mission, because I think we have to call it that way, as a fruitful commercial mission to Galicia. What messages did the president send to the Cuban people during the Cuba-Galicia Economic Forum? What expectations are opened or can be opened for Galicia, for the Galician companies, for the Italian production fabric, for the economic fabric? What agreements have been reached, in what sectors and what expectations in hotel matters, in the field of construction and also in cultural and cooperation? In any case, I think it's important what has been done, that it's been remembered and valued also the Welsh footprint in Cuba's history, in Cuban history. I think it's very important to highlight those ties, to keep them, to strengthen them, especially with the Galician community in Cuba, with the descendants of the Greeks in Cuba. And I'm just finished remembering that the president knows he didn't go to the Caribbean, he went to the Republic of Cuba to work for and for Galicia. It wasn't taking Cuban mojitos like they were others many years ago. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u359	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Mr. Moreira, in particular, in the section of contact with the diaspora, it was not only with the Cuban diaspora, with the Welsh and Cubans who live there, but, as you said, it was made a plenary there of the 109 Greek communities that are scattered around the world right now; 101 were gathered there, many from America, others from Europe, other autonomous communities from Spain, who were also there. And, therefore, they came to the meeting to talk about things that affect Welshness around the world, which is as much as saying about Galicia's presence in the world. That's where we talked about the use of the new technologies to serve the Welsh people who are outside Galicia, the cultural proximity of the diaspora, which has always been very important and is very important, has to remain very important because that's the first presence Galicia has in the world. Of the new challenges facing galeguity, there is much to continue to insist on merging and stopping aging; therefore, on also putting new generations into the Greek community and continuing to gather the witness of many who have worked for many years. And also inciting, I say, that and attracting the new generations of Greeks living abroad to keep the spirit of galeguity alive, not only in Cuba but throughout the rest of the world. This is what was discussed in this forum. By the way, in an emblematic place recently restored by the Cuban Government, at the former Galego Center in Havana. And I think that only the fact of doing it there has a lot of symbolism, which I think was an important achievement that, in addition, was not easy to achieve. In addition, a floral offering was made in the Natural Pantheon of Galicia, which is called this way, and then there was a tribute to Neira Vilas, with so many Cuban and so deep roots, through the spectacle "I am Greek, I am Cuban", by King Casal, who I think has put again of first time a figure that never loses presence in Cuba and that, through him, never loses presence Galicia, as is Xosé Neira Vilas. There was also, in fact, participation in economic forums at the I Economic Forum Cuba-Galicia, where the inauguration of the President of the Galician Union served to say that Galicia is here with all its export capacity, with all its capacity to relate to the outside, with all the power of the Greeks who live everywhere, so that in all those countries – and Cuba is one of them – in which opportunities are opened, Galicia is at the forefront of taking advantage of those opportunities. There were encounters at the highest level, both with Luis Carricarte, who is the first Deputy Minister of Mancex, who is ultimately responsible for all the foreign trade and investment that can be done in Cuba, a political leader very much sought after in having contacts with many political leaders from many countries. I mean, it's not easy to hold these meetings, and Galicia could keep them and I think this is important. Also with Ricardo Cabrisas, vice president of the Council of Ministers, who gave him a little overview of everything Galicia wants to do in contact with Cuban rulers. And finally, as you know, the President of the Council of Galicia was welcomed by the highest representative, by Raúl Castro, even now also a representative with whom many political leaders from many places want to meet. I think the fact that, after receiving representatives of the Government of Spain very shortly before, the President of the Council of Galicia was given means that Galicia is there, that there are many opportunities, that this is the time to take advantage of them. And that's why these trips are made by the president of the Galician Union, and that's what these trips are by the Government of Galician Union. If some people want to think that it's traveling to the Caribbean, there they are. It was probably because they did travel to the Caribbean. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u361	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members on the views of the Government of Greece on the agreement to exempt the Reganosa storage plant and regasifier from the environmental assessment procedure
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u362	Question from Mr. José Ramón Vázquez Díaz of the Galga de Left Alternative Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u363	I have this here, I don't know if they've changed. It's a question about the agreement to exempt the proceedings of the environmental assessment of Reganosa. How did it go down? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He did not notice, the one he welcomed was the last, which is a question from Mr. Fajardo. Well, he collapsed, perfect. Let's move on to another one. No, no, no problem, we'll fix it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Perfect, fallen. Question by Mr José Ramón Val Alonso and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the information of the Government of Galicia regarding the possible sale of the production centers of Alcoa in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u364	Whenever you want. Whenever you want. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u365	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Counselor. Since a long time ago, you and other members of your government have been repeating over and over again that their fundamental objective is the internationalization of the Greek companies. And I don't know if for you the internationalization of companies is the sale of our knowledge to do to companies in other countries, as has already happened in the case of a company dedicated to shipbuilding, or if this ambitious goal has left them out something as earthly and as ambitious as strengthening industry and industrial employment in the country itself. I know you know the data perfectly well, but it's good to remind everyone. Since you are a government we have lost one in four industrial jobs in Galicia. And in this situation, in the last few days, we've found the news that the multinational Alcoa aluminium sector, which has two primary aluminium and aluminium production centers in the Coruña and San Cibrao, has just announced that it's doing a study of economic and financial viability, in which it fights all scenarios, from the sale of ambalas two plants to the incorporation, even, of some investor partner, or even other options, as it can be the closure of two plants. A situation that shouldn't surprise us, since it's happened less than three years ago on a plant that Alcoa's own company had in Italy. In view of this, and of the little information provided by the company's management to the workers, these are experiencing a situation of uncertainty in the face of this process. It's good to remember that we're talking about 400 direct jobs in the plant that the company has in the Coruña, more than 1,200 direct jobs in the San Cibrao factory and another 400 linked to the auxiliary industry. So the maintenance of activity is fundamental in the Coruña region, but much more, it fits, in the Navy region, where this company represents almost 20% of the province's gross domestic product. So, Counsellor, we know that just a week ago you met with the representatives of the workers of both plants and we also know that you collected your claims and acquired commitments, so soon enough, that it's nothing other than the cost of energy and the model of power supply, and also the one referring to protecting the process of possible sales of factories. So we consider or believe that today is a good time for you to transfer to parliamentary headquarters information from what the Government of Galicia has, as well as the steps they are taking to find a solution or a framework in which, whether it's Alcoa or another company, they can develop their activity with guarantees and not be pending each year from an electric auction. Therefore, Counselor, the question is quite clear. What information do you manage about the possible sale of Alcoa? And what steps are you taking to try to minimize the potential impact if this sale can be made? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u366	Thank you, Mr. Val. To answer, you have the floor of the Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, of course, since the German Government, we are maintaining a continuous contact with both the company and the workers. And, of course, we're following up on that strategy that Alcoa is analyzing, it's following up on both the plants of the Coruña and San Cibrao. It's not a matter of the last days or the last weeks. Because you know perfectly well that this government, whenever Alcoa needed its help, always, always, this government was next to Alcoa; not only in the development of its structure, as it was in the case of the Navy with the construction of the pipeline, but also supporting other types of investments. So, of course, this government is following up and this government, clearly, is demanding an industrial project with a guarantee of the future, both through greater investment, so that plants have greater competitiveness, as well as that commitment to maintain employment. So without any crack, this government will do everything possible, of course, to keep this industry in Galicia. And, of course, we will also continue to do everything possible to defend in a clear and round manner the position of all our electrointensive companies, focusing on the need for a context of greater certainty in the field of the power supply. I, Mr. Val, just move that this very thing that I am responding to you is what the Socialist Party is doing in Asturias, exactly the same position as the Socialist Party in Asturias. I don't understand why the Socialist Party in Galicia has a completely different approach. I don't know if this afternoon you're going to be corrected by your candidate to the Galician Council, but it's obviously hard to understand how you didn't support that institutional statement this very morning. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Your Honor, I think you have already shown that you are experts in saying one thing and the opposite, and you are also experts in forgetting your responsibility for the costs of the electrical system, because if Spain is in a really complicated situation it is precisely because the Socialist Government at the time did not know how to plan the power, it planned ten times above the demand. Because it was the Socialist Government, as you well know, which multiplied by more than 10 the tariff deficit to more than 27 billion euros. And you know that the Socialist Party condemned and forgave the electricity for EUR 3,000 million by not charging consumers too much for the costs of transition to competition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So this government will be with Alcoa, this government will be with the workers, and I hope that the Socialist Party will also join this government to support the position of Alcoa towards the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u368	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Val has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u369	Thank you, President. Look, Counselor, I was hoping that a person of his intellectual size would not frown on the way he has just done a subject that, as I told him in the first intervention, affects more than 1,600 workers in the Navy area and 600 practically in the Coruña region. So I think you should not just come here to apologize and give practically no explanation beyond saying that you will support the maintenance of industrial activity. Look, we're talking about a company that was public until 1988. We're talking about a company that has been receiving differential treatment from the Spanish state for fifteen years in the supply of energy. We're talking about a company that has received significant amounts of aid directly or indirectly. And, therefore, you, the Government of Galicia, can't be impatient and have to take a position and decide whether they're in favor of the sale or not, and decide whether they're in favor of that business strategy of fracture and dividing the plant of San Cibrao and whether you think plants will be competitive if this division is produced. That's what you must say, and you must give your opinion, because this is what's bothering the workers of the factory, Counsellor. And that's vital for the marine region. As I told you earlier, more than 20% of the province's gross domestic product is based on this plant. So what you're tired of saying, internationalization, so abstractly it's very good. But what is important is the maintenance of this country's industrial fabric so as not to continue to lose population in comarcas like that of the Navy, where you have completely abandoned employment. So what we have to do and what you should be doing is you're looking for a stable framework where you can develop business. Look, in countries like France, Iceland and Norway, they have electricity three times as cheap as we have here, and in the last two countries, in Iceland and Norway, they have a supply contract for over 20 years. And in Spanish territory there are also different models. We have the example of the Basque Government, which, in addition to pressuring the state government to reduce the cost of energy, because it is also dedicated to making forums for debate to talk about reindustrialization and competitive energy prices. What are you doing, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u370	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u371	What are they doing to reinforce an industry vital to the marine region? I don't think you can come here to frifle with a subject that affects as many people as you do in such an unfavorable area as that of the Navy. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u372	Thank you, Mr. Val. Replica from the Government. You have the word of the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u373	I understand you don't like to know the data from your own political party. I'm deeply sorry that's how it is. I'm transferring data to you. I'm not coming here to chill. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this government, of course, is not in any case in favour of politicizing about the future of the Alcoa factories in San Cibrao, as, by the way, if it is doing its political party, which is trying to politicize the subject. [[Murmurs.]] From the very first moment they're playing to take pictures, and what they're coming here to Parliament is not to support the Government, with the same position as the Socialist Party of Asturias. They come and want, logically, to ally with the Tide, with Podemos, etc., betting on their opposition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I think even next week they have a great opportunity. In the next plenary session you will have a great opportunity to support Alcoa, to support the Alcoa workers, because the People's Group will present the same position as the Socialist Party of Asturias, and surely, if you do not know whether your candidate for the Galician Council or the Socialist Party of Asturias or the Madrid Socialist Party is going to have a pretty clear position on Alcoa... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, this government has very clear its position on Alcoa, it's very clear that its position has to go through investments, it's very clear that its position must logically go through an interruption auction that has a fair price and a stable price. And, of course, this government, Your Honor, is next to the Alcoa workers, this government understands that the demands of the workers are reasonable, this government shares all the demands of the Alcoa workers and, of course, we will continue to support both Alcoa and its workers, just as the Socialist Party of the Principality of Asturias is doing and, unfortunately, it is not doing the Socialist Party of Galicia. I fully understand your position, because you have simply demonstrated over the past few weeks and over the past few months that your industrial policy for Galicia does not exist. And unfortunately, not only didn't want to support Alcoa this morning, but they're not supporting other industrial projects in Galicia, like Reganosa or Ence. Unfortunately, Your Honor, I must remind you, because you probably haven't transferred the data, that both Ferrol and Pontevedra socialist parties are next to their government partners, that is to say, those who defend the closure of both Reganosa and Ence. And I also remind you that in the case of Navantia the Socialist Party of Ferrol does not want to join the contracts with Saudi Arabia, aligned with the Tides and Podemos. I understand that their industrial policy is that of Mareas and that of Podemos, ours is industrial policy for Galicia and for the Greeks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u374	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Concepción Burgo López and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order regarding the incidence of the lack of reposition of the teacher in the teaching quality of the universities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u375	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u376	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. I am sure, Counsellor, that you are aware that the budget cuts carried out by the government presided over by Mr. Feijóo, together with the limitations on the teacher's replacement rate, are taking the Greek universities to an extremely difficult situation. These two elements would still have to be joined by your decision to mark a salary ceiling and to put limitations on chapter I of the universities. This is having very negative effects. And, of course, the most obvious, between the replacement rate and the other elements, is the strong fall in the number of teachers and teachers in the universities of the Greek university system; a decrease that even the Conference of Rectors of the Spanish universities marks for our university system around 7.5 % of the staff that existed in 2010, 7.5%. They're really important numbers. This is creating very pernicious effects and, of course, problems for the future. You know that as well as I do, especially because the replacement rates and limitations affect a very old faculty, where the average age clearly exceeds 50 years, and with a very large number of teachers and teachers over 60 years. So in the next five years, a number of teachers will retire, too, very strong. This also causes immediate problems, problems with the functioning of faculties and departments. So, as you know, recently the Dean of Medicine gave the alarm voice about the situation and the problems he's going through his faculty. Because in five years 11% of their teachers disappeared and there was no response to them, they lost 43 out of 80 concert teachers' squares with Sergas, and now to give 17 medical subjects in the medical department they're going to stay within four teachers because the others retire. But it's not the only case, Counselor. You know that this semester began in the faculties of Education Sciences and Philosophy with the closures of students who asked for something as simple as having taught. That's what they asked for, not anything else. Having teachers who gave the classes in established hours. Because they started with 15 teachers less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u377	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u378	...that the year before. In view of this situation, what I want to ask you right now and right now is if you don't think this is already having an impact on the quality of teaching at certain colleges in the Greek universities. We'll see other problems at another time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u379	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. To answer, you have the floor of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u380	Mrs. Burgo, you're asking me if I believe that the teaching quality of the Greek universities can remain without teachers. Obviously, in no way, no. But the truth is, too, Mrs. Burgo, I don't know why you ask me this question. And if I try to find out, we'll understand why his political formation is in the barrier he's in, he's in the situation he's in. And I'm going to tell you that it's absolutely amazing to hear what you just said here, that I'm sure you say it in good faith, by saying it in a soft way. Because you're telling us about the replacement rate, talk about wage cuts and talk about educational squares, about university professors' squares. Of course, I believe that they sincerely show themselves, that the Socialist Party points out, when it talks so cheerfully about the replacement rate. Why did you start the replacement rate in Spain in the year 10? Mr. Zapatero's government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u381	Quiet, quiet! Counselor, continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u382	It was certainly not Mr Zapatero who set up the replenishment rate in the year 10 out of 10% of teachers and public officials. Certainly not. All right, no! If socialists say no now, perhaps they're right. And, at best, believe it. But certainly who put in place the replacement rate in the year 10 was a government of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] Universities, like any administration, were subject to that replacement rate until last year, when a People's Party government put 50 percent. And fortunately this year also a People's Party government has put the 100% replenishment rate. [[Applause]] So, having said this, all those squares that were requested as an official professor by the universities, taking into account the repositioning rate proposed by the Socialist Party, began. And besides, I'd say that they were authorized in 13, 14 and 15 a series of squares outside the staff replacement rate: in 13, 271 PDI squares; in 14, 312; in 15, 287; and in 16, when the 100% replacement rate was recovered, this type of authorization was no longer required. But it is also surprising, Your Honor, that you, who have always defended taxively – and I understand it – the autonomy of universities, now try to suggest that, if there was no replacement of teachers due to the repositioning rate driven by the Socialist Party, it was "the guilt of the Galician Union", which, I insist, is absolutely surprising. It is also surprising, Madam, that in the explanatory statement, some data has certainly been mistranslated or mistranslated. Because look what more absurd thing you say, with all due respect. You say that the professors at the Faculty of Medicine have been reduced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u383	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u384	...11%, losing 275 teachers. A mistake? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, because I'd have to have 3,000 teachers. I accept the mistake. But look, another mistake you're saying is that there are only eight teachers in the Faculty of Medicine to teach up to seven subjects, when there are 57 professors among professors, headlines, hired doctors and PACS. I believe that you, like me, who are of the guild – in this case we are university professors – respect absolutely our autonomy, autonomy of universities, and we understand that these years that have been difficult for universities have been largely due to the fact that in many years there has been a reposition rate that has been impossible...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u385	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u386	...that there was a replacement in the official field. Not so much in the workplace, where the demands were met because it is necessary to teach. But if you're here trying to move to Galicia's board a matter that is derived from an agreement or a socialist proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u387	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u388	...but actually, as I said before, it's really amazing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u389	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u390	What is absolutely surprising, Counselor, is that you show this – let's call it – cynicism and hypocrisy. Because you know perfectly well that Mr. Zapatero's replacement rate has not affected research or this sector. Secondly, Counselor, you weren't obliged to keep it. If they were so bad, why did they keep it? Why did they keep the replacement rates if they were so bad, if they had as many negative effects as you just recognized? But not only did you keep them, but you expanded them. They've extended them to health care, education, research. Between the 10th and the 15th there was only 10% replacement. I think you were ruling. And right now there's 100% replacement for retirements produced this same year. So we can't replace the previous ones. As for the data, 275 of course is a mistake. I'm very sorry but a transcription error. Of the other data you'll have to talk to the Dean of Medicine, because it's data published in the media in a speech I think you were or some member of your team. So talk to him, because you're saying that a Dean isn't telling the truth. So, better, see what mistakes they have. Look, Counselor, your message, your speech, can be credible in ways that don't know the problem. But where it's not credible, he's in college, Counselor. You know no one will believe what you say. There were no recruits because there was no possibility of doing so. And you, and the former advisor, made an absolute intrusion into university autonomy. So in writing, they sent you – the former advisor – a letter of teachers and university members saying they had a political interference about the teacher plan, the teacher's programming, the universities. You don't repeat this in the middle of the Greek universities, don't repeat it, because you know it's not true. And what is true is they're not doing anything, nothing, to facilitate the maintenance of a high level of teacher and researcher as they were having our universities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u391	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u392	But of all this we will be able to speak – I hope – within a very short time with more data on my part and more time on the part of the two, hoping that this time, Mr. Counsellor, will refer to the truth and not to manipulation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u393	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u394	You see, Mrs. Burgo – with all respect to you and your political formation – while unable to realize that you, the Socialist Party, at a difficult and complex moment, had to take means, complex and difficult, which had consequences – part of the consequences we are paying them now – and continue to try to be genuine angels, as if they had not passed by and have nothing to do with what happened, because they really won't lift their heads. Because they're unable to recognize and they're unable to realize the issues you've raised. And maybe it was necessary to do it, maybe in the year 10, we had to do the 10% replenishment rate. But you also have to recognize, and you will recognize, that it was a government of the People's Party who recovered last year by 50% and this year by 100%. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And why? Because the economic situation is better, simple and flat. And while you're here saying that the replacement rate is a question of the People's Party, it won't listen to you or the pointer. And they're going the wrong way, they're going the wrong way. And I don't think you deserve it, you don't deserve to go that way. [[Applause]] They have to realize that the situation is what it was, but they can't keep going that way. Yeah, maybe, yeah. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, Mrs. Burgo, we with universities think we have no problem. I believe that this administration, the former advisor, and I too, modestly, have been able to reach great agreements with the university, large agreements where the universities obviously defend their part and have their logic, and it's defensive. But, look, we were able to consensualize two funding plans, which other governments with more resources haven't done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u395	Mrs. Hide and Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u396	We were able to bring a law forward, a law by consensus with universities, which you didn't care about. We were able to draw a decree to define the map of titrations and we were able every day, today, to dialogue and to carry out themes together. So, that you're trying to put in a cognate to try to generate a debate where there is no debate, well, I insist that I don't think anyone will believe it. And, look, you're talking about the squares. I think the data is what they are. And I repeat them. See, in the year 13 271 squares were authorized; in 14, 312; in 15, 287, all the universities requested, all of them. And I'll tell you something. You'll understand that I'm talking a lot to the Dean of Medicine and I have a fantastic and very good relationship with the Dean of Medicine. And I know perfectly well what he says and what the Dean of Medicine claims. And I think that there is Sergas on the part of universities – of the three, also taking into account the convention – and on the part of the board the best willingness to solve the difficulties that may have to cover the official squares and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u397	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u398	...not so much the teacher squares. Because of the squares we're saying what's going on. You will know that the vice-rector of Professor, who is also a professor at the University of Santiago and a professor at the Faculty of Medicine, because to some extent he is working to find solutions to this situation. But in any case, in any case, this problem derives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u399	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u400	...of the decision you made in the year 10. And while they try to blame others for what their responsibility is they will hardly lift their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u401	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and six other Members of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in respect of the Decree regulating the forecast of reinvestment of part of the income of the mountain communities on its own mountain, established in the Law of the Mountains of Galicia, and its impact on the protection and improvement of the mountain
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u402	To put the question, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u403	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, in 2012, at the initiative of the Government of the People's Party, the Galician Parliament approved the first Mountain Law, a step in the right direction that brought about a normative advance and fundamental support in the forest issue of our country. By this norm, the Union intends to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u404	Mr. Fajardo and Mrs. Adán, silence, please. Mr. Fajardo, be quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u405	Please don't. Please, you. Quiet. Mr. Balsairo, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u406	I'm in no hurry, Madam President. With this standard, Junta aims, among other purposes, to fight against forest mini-fundism in the community, to raise awareness of the importance of the mountain and regulate forests to make them more profitable and to make them more profitable in the future. This is precisely the last point that we would like to focus today, particularly on the community. You know that hill communities get regular income from their forest resources. The new law establishes that part of the percentage of these incomes is reinvested in actions for the value of their own mountains. And to develop this legal obligation has been approved, Counselor, a decree that aims to improve and protect our mountain, to ensure its sustainability in time. To understand the importance and magnitude of this measure, we need to remember that Galicia has more than 3,000 communities of neighbouring mountains in common hands, composed of more than 150,000 Greeks and Greeks, which have the status of communal neighbors. We speak, Counselor, of some 660,000 hectares; that is, about 33% of Galicia's total surface area has the nature of neighboring mountain and common hand. It is true that we find different casuistics depending on the uses of the different resources that produce the mountain – food, biomass, wood, chestnuts and a long et cetera – and even depending on the different existing activities and uses – wind production, extractive activity, wine, socio-recreative, etc.–. So, Counsellor, on this question, the People's Group asks the following question: what assessment does the German Government make of this rule and its impact on the protection and improvement of the mountain? Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u407	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u408	Thank you, Madam President. The staff is a little upset today. Ladies and gentlemen, "the mountain is life," that is the motto with which thousands of boys have carried out different works in the Galician Community, conscious not only of their own, but also of our greatest importance, of the importance of life and the importance of our mountains. [[Applause]] The Galician Union, in fact, continues to develop the legislative framework on mountains in our community, following the adoption of the former legislation of the First Law on Mountains in our community. Together with Decree No. 50/2014 of 10 April, the woodland, woodland, cork, pasture, mycotoxics and private management forests in the Autonomous Community of Galicia are also regulated. To this we have to add Decree 52/2014 of 16 April, so the general management and management instructions for Galician mountains are regulated. This decree, which you refer to today, makes it easier for neighbouring communities to comply with their obligation to communicate with the Forest Administration and to verify the minimum amounts to be reinvested by the communities of neighbouring mountains in common, with an end, and that is to ensure the sustainability of their own resources and forest services. It should be noted that income generated from products resulting from forest fires, pests or temporary re-investment quota will be 100%, unless they documentally justify to the Forest Administration that the level of re-investment is not necessary, as all actions and services in forest protection improvements on the mountain are satisfied, at least in the next ten years. In the event that the catastrophe escapes forest insurance coverage object, and previously contracted, the percentages to be applied will be 40%. The re-investment obligation may take effect in the same year as it occurs or within the next four years. If the full re-investment is not possible, the property may submit to the Forest Administration a multi-year investment plan for approval within a maximum of six months. This investment plan is undoubtedly an instrument designed to facilitate compliance with tax obligations; that is, it is closely linked, in accordance with Article 112 of Law 27/2014 of 27 November, to corporate tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the neighboring mountains are facing a major challenge in terms of property disincentives, forest-use management and placement in value of our lands. In this sense, the re-investment obligation, the impulse given to it by this obligation to communicate the ability to verify, is more important in our Greek forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u409	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Balsairo has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u410	Thank you, Madam President. And thank you, Counselor, for your answer, and thank you also for your commitment, for your bet, too for your efforts in defense of the Greek mountain. Thank you, once again, for all this, that the opposition also gives you thanks. [[Murmurs.]] And also of an orderly, sustainable mountain, and of a mountain, above all, which is what the Greeks and the Greeks want, of a mountain with a future. [[Laughter]] And if I'm not wrong, the obligation to reinvest is not new, but yes it responds to that objective that, once you meet the needs of the present municipalities, you invest in the future needs of the mountain. It is clear that the German Government continues to be committed to the development of its regulatory agenda in the forest area, developing the forecasts included in the Mountain Law, which was approved at the end of the past legislation, and doing in addition and regulating its various aspects with great common sense. As you explained, it is common sense that this re-investment obligation is raised to 100% in case of income derived from fires or plagues or temporals, thinking... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] –Sorry, Madam President. Thank you, Madam President.– ... precisely in compensating that situation of difficulty for which the mountain passes after suffering this eventuality. As it also makes common sense to set long periods for making these investments, a question that you will be sure to take into account. Counselor, there is enormous wealth, which seems to be of no interest to the opposition. Of course, to the People's Group, yes; to the Government of Galicia, yes. The opposition will remain long where it is, the Government of Galicia will remain long where it is, the People's Group will continue to support the Government's option...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u411	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u412	...and the Greeks and the Greeks will be happy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u413	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Replica from the Government. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u414	Thank you, Madam President. The mountain, in addition to being life, is everybody's, and the truth is, this afternoon I'm finding that little interest in rural opposition; maybe it's or I hope it's only this afternoon that doesn't interest to talk about rural. First it was milk, now it's that of the mountain, we played a bit at the wake. Regardless of this, say that, indeed, it is everyone's. The regulation you're doing is, of course, very important, and it's very important for ordering and making it productive. In addition, this is a measure that is not discriminatory, because it is not the only type of mountain that has to reinvest part of its revenue that is obtained, and in this sense we have the listed or heritage mountains, of which it holds the Galician Union, which have to reinvest 100% of its profits and yields. You also have to do at least 40% of the local entities holding catalogued mountains, to which you have to add the mountains called rods, open bars or voices. Since the Act 13/1989 of 10 October 1989 of joint neighbouring mountains, approved by the Tripartite, laid down in its Article 23 the obligation to reinvest at least 15% again. There was progressing, and there was an attempt, an attempt of approval that never came to an end, and that was that of the Bipartite, in 2008, and there was the following, regardless of whether they had not come to pass it: "The statutes of the mountain community will set an annual quota of investments, in order to improve the protection of the mountain, which will not be less than 25%." They were in it, but they didn't just shoot forward. We want to go further, and of course we put 40%. Eye!, it must be said that this is an exceptional re-investment obligation whenever there is a sustainable, active forest management commitment, by drafting and implementing a sustainable forest management or management tool. So we have the two ways: on the one hand, when it comes to forest fires, the reinvestment is 100%; on the other hand, there is the exceptionality when there is the drafting and fulfilment of a forest management or management instrument; and then there is the third way, which is the obligation to reinvest 40%. And all this, with what end? Well, with an end, what's to make rural and our most productive forest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-08-DSPG157.u415	Thank you, Counselor. There's no more business on the agenda, the session is up.
