ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u1	Good morning, gentlemen. Please take care of your seats. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you. Good morning again. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, No. 586, dated 21 January 2016, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco, for his father's passing, has justified his inattentiveness to this plenary session. From here our courage and solidarity. And, ladies and gentlemen, we go into the agenda with the preliminary point. Provision of promise or oath of acceptance and fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of autonomy of Galicia by the new Members
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u2	In accordance with Article 7 of the Regulation, a request is made for the promise or oath to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and the Statute for the Autonomy of the New Ladies and Sisters Sandra María Devesa Bouzas – in place of woman Paula Prado del Río – by woman Monica Fernández Rodríguez – in place of woman Yolanda Díaz Pérez – and woman Elena Cruz González Sánchez – in place of woman Pilar Rojo Noguera. Second, the procedure. The formula is to answer "if I swear" or "if I promise" to the question of this presidency. So I beg you to answer the question I'm going to ask you. Mrs. Sandra Maria Devesa Bouzas, do you swear or promise to adhere to and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u3	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u5	Yes, I promise, as a legal imperative, the Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Elena Cruz González Sánchez, do you swear or promise to abide by the Constitution and the Statute of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u7	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u8	Thank you very much. If the promise or oath is granted, the full status of Members of the Galician Parliament is reached. We welcome them and therefore move on to the next item on the agenda. Thank you very much. Election of the Presidency of the House
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u9	I briefly explain the choice procedure. We shall proceed to the election of the President of the House by a roll-call vote. The choice shall be made in accordance with the provisions laid down in Articles 91, 36 and 37 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. by means of papers after the nominal call, by alphabetical order, by Members of Parliament and by the Secretary. I remind you that in accordance with Article 36 of the Galician Parliament's Rules of Procedure, they must write a single name on the paper. It will be elected or elected who obtains the vote of the absolute majority of the members of the House. If no one gets that majority, the election will be repeated between the two highest votes and the elected president will be elected who gets more votes. The House's services, I imagine, would already proceed prior to the distribution of paperwork. A blank ballot will be considered that no name card and a blank ballot containing more than one name or some risk or sign. Since the papers are already distributed, we will begin the vote by calling on the Secretary of the Bureau. I ask the second vice-president and the vice-secretary to sit where the ballot box is collected. Secretary, you can proceed with the call of your lordships.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u10	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u11	There are no Members or Members left without a vote. We therefore proceed to the report.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u12	The result of the vote... excuse me a moment. [[Murmurs.]] [[Pause.]] I call on the second vice president to read the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u13	The voting is as follows: Total votes cast, 73; don Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira, 41 votes; blank, 30 votes; don Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, 1 vote; and a null vote. Don Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira obtained the absolute majority. It is therefore declared President of the Galician Parliament. [[Applause]] Election of Vice-President
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u14	The post of the first Vice-President of the Bureau is vacant with the previous election. I therefore propose to the House the election of the Vice President. I ask you to take this vote. [[Assentment.]] The election is similar to that made before, and it will be elected or elected who takes the highest number of votes. Ladies and gentlemen must write a single name on the paper which is shared for the purpose, which will be deposited in an ornate after the roll call, in alphabetical order, by the Secretary of the House. I remind you that no one is considered to be more than a name, ransoms, or signals other than that. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Empty votes will be considered when no name is present. I ask the Secretary to make the corresponding call for Members and Members to place their papers in the ballot box.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u15	Thank you. Is there any Member or Member left without a vote? Thank you very much. [[Refusal.]] We proceed to the scrutiny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u16	The results of the vote are as follows: votes cast, 73; votes in favour of Da Marta Rodríguez Arias, 40; votes in favour of D. Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, 1; votes in favour, 32. Vice President Marta Rodríguez Arias has been elected. [[Applause]] I'm begging you to come and take your seat at the table. I'm allowed, a brief speech. It cannot be a big speech because I am aware that my position of entering the presidency of Parliament is taking place because the former president has become a Member of Parliament at the Congress of Deputies. So, brief words, because today is a day of great satisfaction and pride to me. But I'll be brief. I congratulate Vice President 1st on the election. An election in which there was competition, as you can see, because we had to vote. One hoped that the result would be as forceful as it was in this case, but, in any case, I appreciate the plurality of votes and I am grateful that this was the case. I would also like to thank the people who are present with us today: workers, the media, former MEPs and former Members, and, of course, also my family, today represented by my wife and mother. I want to thank my group for voting. I have to thank them for their votes and for the confidence they're putting in my person for this position. I am particularly grateful for the presence of the former President of Parliament, who was fortunate enough to work alongside him and from which I learned several things: one, the human strength in the face of adversity, which I know he had, and I am very glad that he recovered it. His tireless working ability; this must be for us, for me, a reference that I will always take into account. Your ability to work as a team. I felt as Vice-President always very supported by the President of Parliament, and I believe that at the Bureau he was able. I hope I'm aware of these circumstances and also make an integration among all of us at the Bureau. I, Madam President, now, wish you the best: good health and good luck. My working life is long, he spoke in two ways: in hospital management, in health management, and in Parliament. Perhaps there is no one who wants Parliament as much as I do, because here I have passed, and I am passing, half-life, and I am very grateful that he is now appointed President of Parliament. We've all met, you know me, I've been there, and I like the debate, the political competitiveness. I like it, but from the margins we must have it. And I'll find this to be so because I think it's in favour of the institution's prestige. I insist, I love and love this Parliament, very much! And let me finish with a final anecdote, an anecdote that to me was a reality, and today I hope to pay off that debt I had. When I went into politics, my father brought him the greatest disgust. My father never accepted that I had entered politics, and he said to me with a phrase, "You have a bright to be a manager. When you get into politics several things will happen to you, one of them is that you are my son, I know the flaws that you have and forgive you, but when you are in politics they won't forgive you the defects, but they will air you." He never accepted that I had entered politics, never! And I'd like it from up there today – which I suppose it will be – to tell you that there are nice days too. I hope it's a day that he enjoys, and I'm so sorry to have given him that disgust. Go get him! Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u17	We've already started with the development of legislative texts, which is the second point on the agenda. Full debate on the draft law on legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u18	This bill has been amended by the Socialist Parliamentary Group as a whole. Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u19	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in this first speech to congratulate both you and the vice president and wish you all the luck in this new course. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting, or we are at a better conclusion, with the introduction of this bill, the referral that has been made in this Parliament of five bills – this is the fifth – which were included in the democratic impulse programme that the President of the Council announced and introduced to this House now, about a year ago. There were five legislative initiatives, which were designed to increase control over political institutions and, consequently, to improve the quality of the functioning of these institutions and prevent possible cases of bad practices within them. First of all, therefore, within these laws, we have increased control over the finances of political organizations, increased control of the Board of Auditors over them, about foundations that could be linked to the Greek political forces, and even about entities that grant them credit or companies that are hired by political parties for election activities. Secondly, the Council of Auditors' own Law has been reformed, as you know, with the objective of making this external control body an even more independent, more professional and more focused entity for the prevention of corruption. Thirdly, the capacity of the citizen has been strengthened to directly monitor the action of the Government through regulation of the direct participation of citizenship in parliamentary life. And finally, in the last plenary session before Christmas, you will remember that Parliament has adopted a law of transparency which will further enhance the role of citizen control by making available all the information on the functioning of the public sector and on the activity of public offices that run the Administration. And, therefore, and as we close these five laws, today comes the fifth debate, which also talks about this central goal and we believe that it will close that objective of consolidating a quality democracy. We are talking now, through this law that we present today, about control of the Government as well. And so in order to ensure full respect for legal principles, a government and its administration need not only an active citizenship, first of all, a supervisory parliament and independent control bodies, and all this is achieved by previous laws. It's also needed, and that's what this fifth law answers, a control system that's efficient, professional and well organized. We believe, from the Government, that the Galician Juridical Counsellor has sufficient prestige, a prestige earned for many years for his good doing, especially in the litigation proceedings, in the defence of the Galician Council – in contentious proceedings – but also in the legal advisory work he has given to the various governments who have been assuming these functions during the history of autonomy. That's why I want to begin this exposition of this law by making a sincere acknowledgement to the staff of the Judicial Counsellor of Galicia, because without his work I'm sure it would be impossible to have reached the milestones that have been reaching the various governments of Galicia. Now what's clear is that these personnel had since the beginning of their pace, from the beginning of autonomy, a fundamental ejaculation, which was nothing but lack of legal regulations that stood and ordered their activity in a definitive way – or at least not provisionally – way. For more than three decades now, Galician law enforcement staff have been working under a law which in their own title already carries this provisional character, Law 7/1984, of provisional regulation of the judicial-contentious services of Galician law. This was the regulations governing counseling, and as I have just pointed out, the same name was the provisionality with which this regulation was made. So we believe that this law, in addition to the obvious improvements it will make to the law it now presents, will be a very important improvement not only for citizenship, but also for this essential staff in the day-to-day functioning of the Autonomic Administration. Just like LOFAXGA in 2010 solved the deficiency that came from decades of a law of legal regime in the Italian public sector, this bill up to another of those cables that are a foundation for our autonomy. In this sense, this new text addresses the fundamental functions of the public legal services of the Autonomous Community, and which are none other than the control of viability, through the supervision of rules, contracts, agreements and legal records in general; that of representation and defence in judgment of the interests of the autonomous public sector; and that also contains the exercise of popular action in the way and in the conditions laid down by procedural legislation, as we are making in situations as sensitive as the cases of macho violence, when the result is of death. And so these essential functions are adapted through text, which we want to be modern, that we want it to be permanent and that we want it to be adapted to the new circumstances that weren't foreseen at all 30 years ago, nor were they predicted in later years. And so, first of all, we adapt the current structure of the autonomic public sector, we adapt the structure of legal advice to the current structure, I mean, our autonomic public sector. It is clear, as I said, that over three decades the organization of the Galician Union has changed greatly, first with a growth of parallel entities, and in recent years with a rationalization plan, with a reorganization and a reduction of them, and therefore this new law on this line is homogenizing the legal control of the Juridical Council on the General Administration and also on these public entities, these public sector entities that have been rationalizing themselves to ensure that they are subject at all times to the same degree of supervision and rigour as the General Administration of the United States. In addition, the provision of a legal service to these entities by the Legal Counsel is facilitated by regulating mechanisms which generally promote the role of the Council of Galicia's legal staff, which provides legal assistance services, not as up to now, that in many cases, or at least a few years ago, each body of the public sector has come to external support for the provision of legal services. So, in this way, what we do is we also develop the principle of self-sustainment, which is in the Law of Rationalization, which is already in force since the year 2014 and which responds to something so reasonable – which I suppose... I'm sure we will all agree – and is that what we can do to the Council of Galicia with our own means and what we can do in an objective and well-do way does not have to go out and hire it. Thus, it is necessary that, in character prior to the opening of any procurement file of a legal consultancy or an external attorney's office, from now on, it will be necessary to give notice to the General Legal Counsel of the Council of Galicia so that it will, firstly, be pronounced about it, whether it proceeds or does not proceed out and, therefore, it is not possible to assume that legal counsel with its own means, which, in principle, is intended to be possible as many as possible more times better. So, whenever possible, this control, this legal aid, with its own means. But even in those cases where the Juridical Counsel determines that it cannot also retain the supervisory power of the execution of that external contract. I mean, there will always be a presence of the Legal Counsel. The fundamental reason is easy to understand: it is to preserve the principle of unity in the criterion of legal representation of the autonomic public sector, that in addition to this intention, this objective of maintaining this principle of unity, is one of the things that the Council of the Judiciary deserves most praise in its report on this law. A second question is also that a modern law on legal services has to adapt to the complexity of the normative entrenchment, which has nothing to do with what was 30 years ago; it has been growing, as you know and how easy it is to understand, over these years, very much. We are very concerned about the simplification and clarification of that normative map – which is missing in many cases – and therefore we use this legislative initiative to renew obsolete laws, as is the case now with us – a temporary law that now becomes final – or also to integrate – here too – into the same dispersed normative text. We have also done so in other laws, for example, in the last Law on Cultural Heritage, which is being processed in this House. We have already done so in the Law on the rationalization of the public sector. The principle of regulatory quality has been installed, and now what we have to do is to comply with it. We adopted in October 2014 the guidelines on self-regulation and we want to homogenise the wording of the legislation of the Autonomous Community, which meets certain legal principles: because of the diversity in the subject matter, which has to be discussed, there must be a body recognised in all cases, and this law that we bring today will also contribute to fulfilling that objective. We consider it essential to include as a normative principle the need for staff lawyers to participate from the outset in the process of drawing up all these regulations, avoiding the possibility that they will eventually reach the advice of texts with many defects that delay their processing, delay their approval and make everything much more burdensome. So by working from the base, it will be much easier to achieve, in the end, an optimal result in the normative quality of the rules that the Galician Union approves. So, as I said, through this law, we entrust the Counsellor with the duty to control the legality of the legislation from its own origin, and to ensure, in addition, that it adapts to these guidelines for the development of standards that we approved in 2014. In addition, it is also called the General Legal Counsel as a coordinating body for regulatory simplification processes – which we are doing periodically – that we must undertake to debug and streamline Galicia's normative map, which, as I said before, needs, after thirty years. There is a lot of rules to debug, a lot of rules to consolidate, and therefore it must be made clearer and easier to apply and understand, not only for the administration's professionals, but for citizenship in general, which is obliged to comply. Then there is another need, another third need for adaptation, which is the adjustments of the functions of the Legal Counsel to the growing demands for cleaning and good practice of public office. That is why this law alone justifies the inclusion of democratic impulse measures. There are others, but this would justify it on its own, and it has, of course, demanded to incorporate some more important innovations that are collected in this legal text, such as the regulation of defense in the trial of authorities and public servants of the Galician Council. Ladies and gentlemen, it was about developing a procedure that was guaranteed with public staff and with the authorities that are part of the Administration, but by designing a system with all guarantees, a system whose operation consists basically of the following. First of all, any request for legal assistance by a public employee or authority must be submitted for a double examination; both the general secretariat of the consultancy where the official or authority or the General Legal Counsel of the Galician Union itself is registered must give him prior visas and please the provision of such assistance; that is, a double allowance, an approval, and therefore a prior, double and simultaneous supervision. The final decision, in any case, will correspond to the General Legal Counsel, which must assess the possible contradiction that may be given in these cases of the interests of the person requesting the defence with the general interests of the Administration. Therefore, it will not be defended in any case that it is considered to have acted consciously in the prejudice of the general interest. For this reason, the law is in such a way that the defence authorization will be denied when the background opened by the Juridical Counsel can be deduced since the acts carried out were not in the legitimate exercise of the functions of the office, and therefore it is stated that such appreciation, if it appears in addition to the process – it goes beyond that authorization – if it has been given because at first those indications were not appreciated, it may be immediately revoked by the Counsel itself. And besides, as a last filter, if that revocation had not occurred and had initially been authorized, that is, if the defense was maintained to the end, but the judgment had considered the person defended guilty, then he would be obliged to reinstate the expenses of the Legal Counsel to which he defended the Council. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, the objective is that in no case does a person who has acted deliberately against the interests of Greek citizenship go to see his defense paid for by the public money of this citizenship. We believe that it has shielded this principle by law responds to what the Greek society demands without any doubt and therefore includes and regulates in detail this newness in this law which is now before Parliament. So, in general reviewing the functions of the Counsellor that grant you this law, the novelties that are incorporated, the new tasks that are entrusted to you and the extension of its activity, we also need to talk in a summary way – but it is also necessary in this intervention – about the measures that are taken to facilitate precisely that the Counsellor can organize its staff to perform these functions properly. The first measure of efficiency in this sense is to concentrate all the staff of the Legal Counsel on a single relationship of jobs, which up to now did not happen. Today the staff of the Legal Counsel, the counsellor, is a member of the various councils or entities, and has approved their final position by the counsellor in which the services are provided. With this law, what we're looking for is to change the model, I say, unify everything in a single relationship of jobs; jobs that will be defined by the General Legal Counsel, which, without any doubt, has more information; it's the one that has that information about the different workloads in different destinations, about whether you can manage more appropriately by one asset or another...; that is, about that capacity of self-organization for better compliance with the obligations. And with this the Advisory will be able to adapt the distribution of their staff to their needs, which will be changing, which will be very diverse, and therefore need to be cared for flexibly and dynamically. A second measure of efficiency is the ability which the Law introduces to enable, by the Advisory, other staff members, who are not legal counsel, but who are entitled to law, to perform very specific tasks, corresponding, in principle, or assigned initially, to counsel. In this way, legal advisers and advisers will be able to concentrate on matters of greater importance and not have to do all matters considered to be more procedural; they will be able to do so these qualified lawyers, and therefore members of the Council can concentrate their time and efforts on the most complex matters in which their participation and contribution is essential and relevant. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, important changes, profound changes, which affect the operation and effectiveness of the autonomic public sector; changes that will achieve extreme control over the legality of the administration's data and which go on the line, on the one hand, to avoid from the beginning cases of bad practices and also to strengthen the legal security of administrative activities, so that we can ensure that citizenship has public institutions that always walk within the law. All this is intended to accomplish with a text of five chapters, very technically worked; it is not very broad, but rather very technically worked, and which is evaluated, among other organs, by the General Council of the Judiciary. I would also like to highlight an addition made to the proposal made by the Presidency of the Advisory Council, which is based on the facilitation of requests and the speeding up of requests for legal advice from local authorities. By this law we will make it easier for the mayors and mayors of Galicia to have the door of the Open Consulting Council to request reports on matters of general transcendence, thus also getting the highest legal certainty at the local level and giving them a new advisory remedy, which will gradually allow a legal doctrine to be consolidated which also allows the local authorities of Greece to know to enter into legal matters of special transcendence. We therefore present, ladies and gentlemen, a text that we consider necessary, which closes this package of five laws of democratic transparency and which is modern, innovative and – I insist – especially necessary in many respects. It is true that an amendment has been tabled to the whole of a single group. I hope that during the processing of this bill one can be processed first and then, during the processing, we can be able, just as we were in the Transparency Act, where there were three changes of return, three amendments to the whole, if we can get the text out without any votes against. I believe that we will demonstrate that the will to reach agreements remains clear, that in matters of transcendence, which go far beyond political considerations and that they are far more directed to legal security and the effectiveness of the administration, we are able to agree. So once we're equipped with this package, there'll be a lot more tools and a lot less excuses to do things like we have to do them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u20	Thank you, Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice. The defense of the amendment to the whole. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u21	Thank you, President. Congratulations to the new president and vice president. We are starting this debate today with, as the Vice-President well said, a single amendment to the entire bill called the Law Management Bill of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector, and the Socialist Party is the one which is presenting this amendment to the whole. My first words wanted to be a humble tribute to which some called the eighth father of the 1978 Constitution, who died this Saturday, Paco Rubio Llorente. I will allow myself to quote Paco Rubio, who, no. 84, not even the same year of that provisional law on the lawyers of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, not his report The legislative procedure in Spain; the place of the law between the sources of law, said or next – he read it in Spanish because he did so or wrote – "The draft laws adopted by the Council of Ministers must be sent to Congress accompanied by a statement of reasons and the background necessary to rule on them". The truth is in this bill that we amend this explanatory statement today, and those backgroundes can actually be summed up in the middle of a leaflet. Paco Rubio – and this is important – said: "Once the first draft is drawn up, the project's driving minister communicates it to affected groups or sectors (unions, professional colleges, employers' associations) and negotiates the suggestions of these. Sometimes even the ready eraser is made public, which is thus being discussed by the public." I'm running out of words – it's going to be hard for someone to be able to beat up Francisco Rubio's words in this House; none of us is up to enough to do it – because this project reaches Parliament without any communication of any kind, and we're not talking about negotiation or discussion anymore, neither of trade unions nor of public opinion nor of university, "I think it, I eat it." Paco Rubio also said: "The amendments may be directed against the whole of the project, either to request it to be returned to the Government, or to request that the regulation proposed by it be replaced by an alternative text. Ours today is a traditional amendment in our legal order, it is an amendment to return, but it is not only an amendment to the whole bill, but – let me tell you, gentlemen of the People's Party and, if not, Mr. Vice-President – that it is an amendment to the whole form of legislation, and in these minutes I will try to explain why. We know that regulation is temporary, which is 1984, and above all with a development regulation in which there are certain issues that should not be regulated by a regulation, and therefore of course its regulation would be achieved through a law and therefore it is clear that this Parliament, that is to say, the autonomous legislative power, can debate the situation of a body of lawyers and lawyers of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which well deserves it. But, having said this, in the Socialist Parliamentary Group we cannot accept a bill that was never sent to the civil service unions at any time, which in no case sought for dialogue, negotiation or consensus and which was not even agreed with the lawyers themselves and lawyers of the Autonomous Community. So I remember the words written in 1984 by Paco Rubio, who I just read. And, therefore, we socialists understand democracy in a very different way, and only for this reason is this amendment of return justified. But there's still more: there's a lot of questions that get out of the project text and we think they show a certain ignorance of the real situation. The vice president just spoke of "Galic Union Juridical Assorry." If he spoke to the lawyers and lawyers of the Autonomous Community, he would know that they do not want to be called lawyers and lawyers, the Legal Counsel of the Council of Galicia, but that they are lawyers and lawyers of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and in fact so says the text itself: legal assistance from the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. They are lawyers from the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and they are all. What about skills, like in the 19th century? Sounds a little classy, at least. There will be no more than 60 lawyers in Galicia. Wouldn't it be better if you could develop your work if you made a public summons of new squares so that you could really develop it better? Does it not seem to you that the appointment of this Director General of the Galician Legal Counsel is perhaps questionable? We don't know anything about your selection process, and you're talking about "recognizable competition," not of recognized prestige; of 10 years of professional practice. We don't know why they can't be anymore, for example 15, which is usually normal. We need to know what the world is like, Mr. Rueda. The billboards of professional jury schools don't have maximum standards, as set out in their bill, they have minimum guiding criteria; there's no maximum height in real life. The fees are free; therefore, we do not understand why this bill is ignored. Why is it granted arbitration to the Director General of the Galician Legal Counsel when there are conflicting interests in the case of defending various authorities, officials or public employees? What does it mean that he will decide or consider coming? And on what basis will such origin or inconceivableness be? Why, for example, is it not possible for officials, lawyers and lawyers in the Autonomous Community of Galicia to be allowed, without the need for authorization from the Board of Trustees, to apply to the application? Or is it not prevarication to oppose a more obvious expiry? And why are you exempt from prior and compulsory negotiation in the event of modifying the scheme for the provision of services to these officials? Would it not be better to agree, since it has just offered us consensus, negotiation and dialogue at the relevant negotiating table? It summarizes disproposition, ignorance of reality, immobility and quite classism with that of " enabled by the Juridical Services of the Autonomous Community of Galicia". And then it is – you have to say so clearly – that premium to private external means; it grants legal assistance with private external means. We're talking about hiring consultants or private counsel offices to do the work of the General Legal Counsel. It would not be too much – we ask – that, being around sixty lawyers and lawyers in our autonomous community, there was a public summons for new squares and, therefore, they did not need to go to private media in any case; besides that in the autonomous community itself there are public means – of which we will then talk – that could have been included in the text of the bill and that they are not. And then there's your cordial bilingualism. The project literally says in the first additional provision: "The Government will see to it that the actions of the lawyers and lawyers of the General Legal Counsel are done in English." What does "care" mean? With love, no love...? At no time does any effort be made to involve them. The lawyers and lawyers represent the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and in Galicia there are two languages: English and Spanish; two official languages. Therefore, Mr. Rueda, you should involve them in the use of the Greek language in all process procedures; not only with affection, but with the use of them. It would be so easy if – so we asked for it once in this Parliament – in their demands they invoke a law... you say that all citizens... have just said that citizenship is obliged to comply with the laws. The rest, those of us who are not citizens, let's say, out of this hemicycle, also those who are inside, we are obliged. It would be as easy as complying with the Language Standardization Act of 1983, its Article 7, No. 2 –I read that it was from Fraga Iribarne, by the way; and it is curious that we have to claim here from this bench to Fraga Iribarne, which says that under this law, the lawyers and lawyers of the Autonomous Community are asking for the file in German – it is not a great effort – and they ask the judges or judges to say the judgments in Greek; not that they are obliged, but to ask them, because they have translators, there are translators, of whom you speak many times. I'll tell you something. The use of the Galician language in justice does not reach 5%. Official data – and you know – are 2005 and we're in 2016. We don't know if you have official data, but, of course, we don't know them here, nor do we know them by the workers of Justice themselves. If you know, we'd like you to tell us. So that 5% is official data from 2005, and the situation since 2005 has been the worst. They're very worried about us. Last week, precisely to prepare this text, he spoke to a magistrate by telephone and said, "Don't tell me that the lawyers and lawyers in the Autonomous Community don't write their demands in English and don't intervene in the English room." No, they don't. In Pontevedra there is only one lawyer from the Autonomous Community of Galicia who does so in Greek; the rest, no. But there is no kind of motivation or involvement on the part of the Government of Galicia to do so. All of these we understand were reasons enough to present our amendment for the bill's return. We ask them to withdraw it and to develop a new project, especially to negotiate it with all those affected, with whom they really have to negotiate it. Bring it here and then we can debate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. It is in favour and against the amendment of the various parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u23	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. I really wanted to ask you today how they are, how they do. Of course, there is not a week when there is no news: now a President-in-Office of the Council who gives the alarm; now they charge – sorry, they investigate – the PP for the case of the computers of Basel; now the former Minister of Agriculture and the current European Commissioner for Energy and Climate – Arias Cañete –, linked to the Acuamed case; and not to mention what has just happened to Ence. Of course, you're lucid at this end of legislation. You're really the kings of corruption, ungovernment and anti-democratic conduct. It's no wonder you're interested in legal services, because, of course, if someone uses legal services these years, it'll be the People's Party. As far as the bill is concerned, I must begin by saying that even if I did not present amendments to the whole, I shall vote in favour of the Socialist Party. I did not present the amendment altogether for a matter of deadlines, so I presented the corresponding partial amendments to the text of the bill. Therefore, the amendment to the whole Socialist Group allows the People's Party to withdraw the bill and start showing that new heel of that renewed PP that Mr. Feijóo does nothing more than sell in recent times, opening a negotiation with the legal representation of workers and public workers. It's not the first time. The denial of the People's Party to fulfil the minimum democratic obligations is a constant one in this Parliament, where the party that supports the Government votes on repeated occasions against the Government fulfilling the rule of law and the Statute of Self-Government. So, for example, we have the naval law, negotiation with union representation, intervention in the face of corporate non-compliance in the labour order, destruction of judicial evidence, envelopes, boxes B, walks with drug traffickers, Zeta operations and many more, all the beekeepers, redundancies... The bill includes subjects that must be negotiated with trade union representation, according to the Basic Statute of the Public Employee and of the collected in article 13 of the recently approved census – with the only votes of the People's Party – Law 2/2015, of 29 April, of Galicia's public employment, which establishes the obligation of the Board of Governors to determine the instructions to which the Government of Wales and the instrumental public bodies must be given in the negotiation of the working conditions of staff with the union representation. After that negotiation, the Board of Trustees must give validity to the agreements reached through its express approval. Obviously, this is not the case. The People's Party, in its contempt already known by all and all to the working class, carries all the legislation with unilateral taxes, both in this House and in its relationship with workers and public workers. The draft law is in breach of Article 37 of the Basic Staff Regulations for Public Employees and Article 13 of Law 55/2003 of the Framework Staff Regulations for the Staff Regulations of Health Services when it seeks to act unilaterally in matters of compulsory negotiation with trade union representation. With this bill, the Government intends to unilaterally regulate the legal and defence advisory functions in the Judiciary of the Council, among which, as mentioned in the amendment to the Socialist Party as a whole, the regulation of legal assistance with external means and the legal defence of staff in the service of the Greek administration is included. That is, once again, Junta intends to privatize an outsourcing service which must be covered by public means in order to ensure transparency in government action in relation to access to public posts, since it is precisely through outsourcing, as has been demonstrated on many occasions, which often ends up in judgments that recognize the indefinite employment relationship of workers and workers who perform these jobs for the Greek administration, thus failing to comply with the principle of access through a public job offer based on criteria of equality, merit and capacity. But in addition, this bill transfers staff to the service of the Government of Wales to the duty to guarantee the legality of their actions, even if they are derived from a direct order of a hierarchical superior, without the guarantees that the workers and workers who refuse to comply with that direct order are regulated, however, not in accordance with the law. In other words, the bill establishes in its article 24 that the Board will refuse to defend itself if it acts in compliance with orders that constitute a manifest, clear and decisive infringement of a rule of law or any other general provision. Therefore, all staff in the service of the Union must be aware of all the Greek and state legislation in order to be able to decide when a direct order fails or does not comply with the regulations, in addition, at the risk of being punished if it is wrong in its assessment of legality or not the legality of the received order. However, it does not seek the refusal of legal aid in cases where public office liability cases are violated, such as, for example, in the case of public officials committing recruitment fraud, which is repeated in the Public Administration, particularly in the area of health; failure to comply with collective agreements, which are also repeatedly breached by companies subcontracted by the Administration; failure to comply with the obligation to negotiate with the legal representation of public workers and workers, as it is collected in this same bill; and unjustified ERAs, as is the case and is happening with Tragsa workers. In these cases, legal aid should guarantee the defence of the legality and rights of the workers concerned. In addition, in order to guarantee and assume the minimum case of legal assistance to public staff, article 20 of the bill points out that the mere action of another lawyer seeking information on the case will be understood as a waiver of legal assistance. This measure prevents the affected person from having two legal views of his or her defense in order to be able to choose between them, so it should be established that the waiver of legal assistance from the Board should be carried out expressly, including it in the file. And what is also not acceptable is that the Board accepts the request for legal aid but reserves the right of revocation, without even setting a time limit for that, which puts public employees in a defence situation in the absence of another lawyer or lawyer. It's a real abuse of power. Once the Judiciary has been granted by the Board, what can't be said is that in indefinite time you can revoke such assistance and leave the public worker/worker, therefore without legal assistance, and this may happen within a few days of the trial. It is also an excessive measure to present a bank endorsement by the person affected by a refusal of assistance for counter-interest, since the Administration has guaranteed the recovery of such amounts in the event of their application, since, if they are workers and public workers, their payroll is therefore controlled by the Administration itself. On the other hand, the draft law is in breach of Article 43 of Law 4/1999, amending Law 30/1992, of the legal regime of public administrations and of the common administrative procedure, which is referred to in the explanatory statement of the law in the following terms. And he says, "Well, this lack of response by the Administration – always undesirable – can never cause unnecessary prejudice to the citizen because, by balancing the interests in the presence, it should usually make the interest of those who have correctly complied with the legally imposed obligations." In the same paragraph, it continues: "The negative administrative silence is seen as a legal fiction to enable the citizen concerned to access the litigation-administrative remedy, although in any case the Public Administration has an obligation to resolve expressly, so that, if the citizen is given reason, if the price is avoided. It is therefore a matter of protecting the rights of persons who comply with the law, and the Administration cannot escape its obligation by means of the figure-fiction of the negative administrative silence, since such administrative action causes great prejudice to the person concerned and strikes the defendants of the litigation-administrative by inaction of the administration itself." For all these reasons, we will support the amendment to the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, which we believe is that the People's Party will present a new text that respects legality in all its fields and basically opens this binding negotiation with the legal representation of workers in a demonstration of real respect for the workers and public workers who go beyond those announcements with which the PP always begins to thank the efforts of workers and public workers, who then prevents them from defending their labour rights and their class interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u25	Good morning to all and to all. We are undoubtedly before an important law as it must be adhered to the statutory and constitutional principles which guarantee the legality, legal security and the prohibition of arbitrariness on the part of the public authorities precisely, as well as the safeguarding of fundamental rights. However, in a reading of the project presented to us, there are a number of evasives that should at least be cured or removed, because we understand that they do not proceed in such an important law as this one, for example, in the concept of self-supply. We understand that the text, as it is presented, is an evacuated text because it cannot be found in the law itself – to our understanding – that it is assumed to be insufficient, lacking or inadequate of the General Legal Counsel. That is to say, we understand that this is not precisely an answer to the concept of self-supply, but quite the contrary, because, in finding this, in any case the second part is already facilitated, which is precisely a process of outsourcing and private legal advice. We understand that it should not be so; in such a case, at most, it should be found in exceptional and duly justified cases, but not on the basis that the law itself contains the terms "insufficient", "necessity" and "inadequacies". We understand that this must be eliminated, and it must therefore be removed, due to this criterion, to external counseling. And this has already been denounced, in fact, by some class union, because it also represents a sort of back door through which you access a job because of the judgments that give reason to those workers. We therefore believe that a public sector worker, in this case of the Legal Counsel, should be provided by principles of merit, equality and capacity through a public employment call. We understand that this is important. And, in any case, as some public university in Greece has pointed out, precisely for what is called, or what they call the "transfer of knowledge" but that we prefer to talk about democratization of knowledge, because also a public university is public, because, in such a case, that it is possible to resort to them, but not to the private sector, and in this case in a mandatory way. Therefore, neither in Article 13 it is properly stated that the fundamental is the defence and protection of public interests. We do not believe either in the administrative silence of a negative type, and here we protest and we argue it when the law of transparency and good government was passed, where it clearly stated that principle as regulated. We understand that the express resolution must always be included in order, precisely, to safeguard people's rights in their defence, because in this case it would not be guaranteed, of course, by our understanding, with a negative administrative silence, that provision, that guarantee of defence. And in article 34, when it comes to... we understand that the adequacy of the General Legal Counsel must be guaranteed to always develop its defence task in the public sector and therefore avoid privatization. How do you do that? Competition call and, above all, through budgeting. That's why we propose you change. And, of course, what we cannot agree with is what you write in your first additional provision, where – it has been said – they introduce the maneuver concept, in a hidden way, of the usual cordial bilingualism. We understand that after the serious warnings and the varapalo given in the Fourth Report on the fulfilment of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, where you note that the Galician Executive, the Galician Executive, leads in this regard a wrong way with regard to the defence, promotion and normalization of the Greek language in all sectors of public life, for here it must be in Greek all, mainly; in Greek, all. That is why we also understand that there are, in addition, very worrying aspects in what concerns – it has been said here – the Statute of the Public Employee, especially in Chapters IV and V, where even the unions warned that it did not happen through the Bureau of Negotiation. There are facts that claim a path of wanting to continue to destroy the principle of collective bargaining, and that, of course, we cannot support it. These aspects should be changed, they should be removed from the range of this law, and if you defend dialogue, then of course, that would be a way to prove it. And what we can't share – and especially if I didn't misunderstand Mr. Rueda's arguments – was that it gave the impression that before having a defense, someone was already in charge of judging whether we were guilty or not to have the so-called defence, and then the presumption of innocence was eliminated. I mean, in his oral intervention here, that's what I understood and, therefore, that's dangerous. Eliminate the presumption of innocence before it is the trial to know whether or not we have the right to such legal assistance because it is to exercise justice before time and therefore to eliminate the presumption of innocence. It's dangerous. And the same thing, as has already been said here, about the concept of revocation, which should have been eliminated, because then you're making it easier for you to have arbitrary behavior in defending the rights of employees and employees in the public sector. So, for our part, that's what we have to say. We didn't share... and it didn't take time, we didn't present a refund amendment to the whole. We hope that we can modify and remedy what corresponds to the public servant's sector and that we can eliminate those aspects that are currently harming – to our understanding – the rights of workers and workers in the public sector and which facilitate arbitrary behaviour on the part of the public administration, precisely what should not be, if we think that the essential role of the Legal Counsel is to safeguard constitutional and statutory mandates in matters of legal security, legality and defence of fundamental rights. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing we should have to say in relation to this draft law is that it seems too resounding to include it in that package of measures for the regeneration of our country's political life, because really the only measure that is envisaged in this draft law – which, in some way, we could interpret that it is directed to the achievement of that objective and that it is one of the greatest innovations introduced through this draft law – is the question of what has been being talked about here at the last few moments, which is to clarify conflicting issues that existed previously in relation to the provision of legal assistance by the Government of Galicia, by the Council of Galicia, officials and officials and high officials and public officials in case they have any kind of judicial dispute. And although there are, in fact, some aspects that need to be improved through the introduction of amendments, in view of events in that area in this country in relation to the provision of legal assistance paid from public funds for certain public offices, I believe that it is mainly collected what has been expressed in this regard as to what cases should be dealt with by the Administration at such legal costs. In any case, through partial amendments, some aspects could be clarified which may not be sufficiently clear in this area. On the other hand, about this bill, I believe that the best definition that can be given – after that said, that it is too ambitious to include it within a democratic regeneration plan in our country – is that it is a fundamentally continuous law in central aspects, and of the few news that introduces – at least some that in our aspect may be positive – we could talk about the ability of judicial officials to act on matters of lesser importance, let's say, related to the legal activity derived from their own councils. It seems to us, of course, that this can be positive in terms of personnel, administrative sanctions, even taxes, and that the officials themselves, in many cases, of staff services or legal services of the various councils, can even have much more knowledge of the specific matter and therefore do perfectly in dealing with the attention of the defence of those matters that we could qualify as regular. We also believe that this bill remains somewhat lame in some respects, that we of course propose to improve through the presentation of the partial amendments we have already made in this regard. With regard to assistance to instrumental entities, which we could call the public sector of the Galician Administration, we believe that the law is a little concerned in the sense that it continues to maintain the possibility that these instrumental entities, through the way of agreement, may establish such advice by the services of the Galician Council, if we, of course, prefer that it be generalized – which is provided for in the law the possibility of doing so, but that it should be made on a general basis – a clearer bet for the existence of legal advice delegated to the various instrumental entities, in a manner similar to that of the State Counsel in relation to the state public sector. In relation to a matter which has already been dealt with in previous interventions and which has to do with self-supply within the public sector, and with the possibility of outsourcing of some of the services of the Legal Counsel, we believe that, if it were to happen, the same should be done a little more than that provided for in Article 5.2 regarding outsourcing. Because, although from this parliamentary group it does not seem at all to us that a certain possibility remains open, always as expressed in the preceding paragraph, absolutely as a subsidiary channel which has to rely on the prior consent of the Legal Counsel, and being clearly reserved, as set out in the article, a preponderant role for the Union and its services, however, if we understand – said Mr Ron – that, as is the wording of the article, it seems to the Committee that the latter part of the presumption that its advice has shortcomings that should be addressed through outsourcing. I think that we should also – and for that we have the presentation – for exceptional issues of special legal difficulty, especially technical difficulty, which I suppose is the object that has to introduce this possibility of outsourcing. I don't know, I want to think, for example, that if there is again a price for the characteristics of the Prestige in which the Union has to figure itself out, and in which there are very different derivatives of international trade law, environmental law, etc., we may not have experts within the Greek Public Administration that are highly qualified in each of these aspects, and that, therefore, in matters of that type's punctual if we have to outsource. But, if so, I insist that in the presentation we can help with writing the article a little more so that it is clearly linked to these kinds of issues. Another thing is that, indeed, we will be vigilant, even if it is heard, about what use the Government makes in the future of this exceptionality which is established in relation to the possibility of outsourcing. Because on this issue there is a different debate that does not have to do with the judicial defense of the Galician Union, which would be to attack the use that is made on many occasions by the Greek Government of what we could call hidden consulting through consultants or offices that in practice are hiding legal services. But, of course, I believe that this question to which I am referring right now would not be resolved in any case by what we could put in this bill, because it depends better on other types of provisions linked to political will, such as the budgetary allocations made for that kind of purpose and the use of that kind of funds made by the Government. There are other aspects of this bill that we consider to be questionable and concerning which we present partial amendments, as it may be to opt for a single path for the selection of staff, which is the one of pure and harsh opposition. And it may be that some people find it hard to make this claim. It is obviously the most transparent method of selection that exists, but we believe that it would not be left out that some type of method of access to these jobs is included in the bill, in which there are some specific types of contests that allow some way to air – if I am allowed to express myself – the legal services of the Board and which do not contain only professionals who develop their entire professional life only in the field of the Administration of the Galician Union. This would allow, as in the judicial career, for example, that persons with ten or fifteen, or those we consider appropriate, years of experience in the professional exercise can, through a contest-opposition of course, access to this scale, or even persons from other administrations, local administration or state administration, which we believe would also technically enrich the body as a whole. And finally, before entering into a question that is also very important to us, which is the one set out in the first additional provision in relation to the use of the Greek language, let me tell you that, although, indeed, this is not at best a strictly political debate object either, we believe that this bill has lost the opportunity to search or test other organizational and functional formulas within the legal advice. And I refer specifically to what he does, in some way, is to consolidate those two legs of legal advice: on the one hand, the General Legal Counsel, and on the other hand, almost as if they were independent, the legal services of the different councils. We believe that we could try other ways, say, of working more in the network, of greater complementarity, and in which the Juridical Council of the Union not only intervened in the various boards in matters of administrative processing related to contracts or to publications of rules, but also could collaborate and enrich in other areas. And finally, in relation to the use of the English language, actually, the first additional disposition... well, first, I don't scandalize myself at all. You know everyone and all that they are would work in justice and I think in all my years exercising my work as a function of justice I've never seen any demand, no written reply, no intervention by any of the U.S. lawyers written in Greek. So I say I am not shocked at the data Mrs. Vilán gave me, because it is so, and of course we must do our best to stop it. You are also the adviser responsible for the Administration of Justice and, therefore, we also want and expect that offer of consensus that the vice-president made in his intervention in relation to which this law can be improved at the stage of the presentation, and of course we ask – for us it is a condition that we will not give up – to substantially modify what is available in the additional provision first that the use of language is routinely done. No, we want it to be taxed in this article that, as public officials, as civil servants of the Government of Greece, as officials who defend the public interest of the German public, whenever they act before administrations or judicial bodies or companies based in our country, their activity must be developed in Greek. We believe that this is a question that must be picked up in this future law with absolute roundness. And, therefore, said this, I want to state that this group is going to abstain from voting on the amendment as a whole, because if there are different elements of this bill that we consider to be clearly improved, that for us, in addition, they are a cause that will determine what our final vote will be in relation to this law, as is this one that I have just mentioned the additional provision in relation to the use of the Greek language, however, we consider that there is no aspect that cannot be sub-sanitable and improved if there is any will on the part of the Government and the majority group, and of course also of the other parliamentary groups, in the presentation procedure. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congratulations on your election as president. My congratulations to the President, to whom we wish the best in the work he now undertakes in front of this institution. Today we are debating the bill presented by the Government of the Legal Aid Management Board of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and its public sector. It is a necessary and timely project that deserves, as the General Council of the Judiciary itself says, to accompany the documentation of the processing of the law, a positive assessment which means – we understand it – already, first of all, of the exercise of the power of self-organization that the Statute of Self-Government gives to the Autonomous Community. This law is again an exercise of self-government, because it means one more step in the development of the institutional framework of the Autonomous Community, which has been reformed in recent years in fundamental entities, such as the Council of Auditors, the Advisory Council or the People's Valor. And it's mainly because of the importance of the subject, which is what makes it part of the democratic impulse programme presented by the President of the Senate a year ago in this House, because strengthening internal control of a legal character and homogenizing it in the whole of the autonomous public sector, and also doing it with the highest efficiency, as the vice president pointed out in his speech, is to enhance one of the bases of the social and democratic rule of law. Because, as we all know, the Constitution, in its articles 1 and 103, establishes the full subjection of the public administration to the law, and to assure it, in order to ensure the subjection to the law, the Juridical Counsel, in the field of internal control, is fundamental both in its role of judicial counseling and in its role of defence in the judgment of the administration itself. We are faced with a necessary project that is already justified by entry for the reasons that drive the presentation of the law in the House. First of all, because, as we have also been reminded, the Juridical Council of the Union is currently regulated by a provisional law of the year 1984, which regulates legal services and has never since been reformed. It is clear that the autonomous administration, since the year 84, has changed significantly in size and importance, as well as in its powers; therefore, first of all, there is an obvious need, which is the radical change of the regulated object, in this case the Legal Counsel of the Council of Galicia. And secondly, because important principles are introduced. I understand that whenever there is an entire debate there can be an attempt to bring forward some of the partial amendments – to some of them I will mention – but the important thing is what this law is, what principles it incorporates and whether we are willing to discuss the procedure of this law in accordance with these principles. What are they? Firstly, the extension of legal assistance, through the General Legal Counsel, to all entities in the autonomous public sector; i.e. to ensure coordinated functioning and to regulate counselling also in all instrumental and institutional bodies of the Autonomous Community. And even that is how it is when the legal advice itself does not lend itself through the public administration's own means. Secondly, to extend in the field of the services of the Legal Counsel the principle of self-supply which is generally established for the whole of the autonomous public sector in the Law on the Rationalization of the Public Sector which we adopted in this Chamber in 2013. The requirements for access to external means are regulated, which up to now has not occurred, and only when the self-supply is not viable – and always reserved for the Legal Counsel for the issuance of a preceptive report on the possibility of taking up the defence or, in any case, monitoring the performance of legal aid – is possible such external recruitment. The third principle is to involve the Juridical Counsel in the work of rationalization, simplification and improvement of the normative quality of the autonomous administration. That means there's a clear bet for the stability of standards, for the simplification of standards for their better understanding by the administrations, and, which is very important, for minimizing the administrative costs arising from the application of autonomous legislation. Therefore, the Juridical Counsel will assist in the elaboration and processing of all laws, which will be adjusted to the technical parameters and guidelines established by the Juridical Counsel itself. Fourthly, the defence of officials and authorities and public employees is regulated, a matter that is not currently regulated by the Autonomic Administration. It's about avoiding conflicts of interest, it's about denying the defence when the judicial proceedings do not derive from the legitimate exercise of the functions inherent in the job, or when the performance of the employee, the public office or the official was not legitimate, or if he had done orders manifestly contrary to the law. Of course, we understand that the figure of granting silent defence to a person who is thought to have acted against the public interest cannot be settled by positive administrative silence. We believe it is of general interest to ensure that the Juridical Counsel always considers defence applications expressly to ensure that no public money is spent on defending a person who has acted illegally against the general interest. And, of course, we also argue that there is a possibility that, if during the process the lawyer of the Union considers that there are indications that this person has acted against the public interest, his request may be revoked and cease using that public money to defend someone who may have caused damage to the Administration. Fifthly, we improve the organization of the Juridical Counsel, and as a result, their independence also improves, reinforces the functional hierarchical unit of all organs of the Juridical Counsel, and in addition to the existence of a single employment relationship, it ensures that staff members are routinely able to defend and act in the autonomous public sector. Sixthly, the practice of the use of the Greek language is raised in the proceedings of the Legal Counsel, both in the internal and judicial fields, in the external judicial proceedings of the Juridical Counsel itself. And finally, in seventh place, the use of electronic means is pushed. Well, in line with these principles, the Socialist Party brings us a whole amendment with three arguments. The first is the lack of reference to unions and the lack of consensus with the Union's own lawyers, which brings together some criticisms about the processing, a processing which I remember has followed the usual steps: it has reports from the General Secretariat of Equality, the General Directorate of Evaluation and Administrative Reform, the General Directorate of Budgets, the General Council of the Judiciary, the General Directorate of the Civil Service, the General Legal Counsel itself, to those who have joined in the referral to report from the Professional Association of Letters to the Council of Galicia, for their allegations. I believe that here is a problem of conception of what is meant when the Basic Statute of the Public Employee establishes what are the matters of negotiation, which the basic Statute of the Public Employee itself clearly states that decisions of public administrations affecting their powers of self-organization are excluded. That's why this law is not the subject of direct negotiation with the workers themselves, because, in addition to there was dialogue, as I have just said, and that the Professional Association of Legislatures of the Board, which brings together 100 percent, has welcomed this legislation very positively, this draft regulation, because of course what it will have to go to negotiating with the workers of the Legal Counsel will be when the organizational structure and the relationship of jobs that the law itself provides for. So we're talking about a self-organization law that comes from situations that will have to be negotiated with the union party, but that doesn't mean, of course, that the law didn't go through the union that brings together the workers of the Union, which, I insist, rightly welcomed this law. Moreover, a very similar law is being dealt with in the Basque Country, and the Socialist Group there has not tabled a refund amendment, so we do not understand exactly why the Socialist Group is presenting a refund amendment to this bill with an argument that it is not supported for legal reasons or factual reasons, since the lawyers have pronounced themselves on the convenience of this rule. Secondly, curiously, what the Socialist Party criticises is that this law does what it does is to promote the privatization or outsourcing of the Juridical Counsel of the Union. Well, I think you, who voted against the Law of Rationalization, in which this principle was introduced, you, who recently in Commission 3 complained that the Board is hiring too much technical advice from public companies and that it is self-supplying, and that it is asked to hire more with private external consulting companies, you, who have been doing all this, are not surprised that we are now being accused of favouring external procurement. I think it's easy to explain, as the vice president has done, the mechanism that contemplates the law. What today is a possibility without any restriction, which is to hire external legal advice, is to be set up in a neatly and perfectly exceptional manner, and there will only be external assistance when the Counsel cannot meet its own responsibility with its own means; and yet in that case the Juridical Counsel will monitor the performance of the contract externally. Therefore, there will not be a proliferation of external legal aid contracts whenever the Union can assume it through its own Legal Counsel, something which, by the way, has been taken in other stages which I will not remember, and which is even being done from other public administrations. I ask you to take this as a mere information and not as a criticism, but the fact is that the same week that you presented an amendment to the whole argument that we are outsourcing the Juridical Counsel of the Board, the Vigo Council issued an invitation to tender to hire external prosecutors for 283,702,56 euros, an account that is absolutely unpublished in the recent history of the Autonomic Administration. Thirdly, they oppose this because they are, they say, against what is done in relation to the theme of the Greek language. It's true that in justice, the Welsh language is one of the least advanced fields in recent years, and it's also true that this is one of the priorities of the Union. I would like to recall that the implementation of the electronic file, from January 1st, facilitates the use of the Greek language on equal terms with Spanish, and the system of electronic presentations, notifications and communications between judges and professionals is already in place. This was a big move, the previous Minerva program didn't allow it. Work is being completed for the launch of the "lexgal", the Greek legal portal, which will facilitate all laws, decrees and orders in the Greek language, free of charge and at the disposal of all citizens. And, therefore, this law also seeks to advance in the treatment and improvement of the use of the English language in the world of justice. What makes the law is to rise to the legal rank the provision of the preferred use of the Greek language, which had already been included in the regulation of the Juridical Counsel, a regulation that was drawn up by the last Government of the People's Party, when Manuel Fraga presided, a regulation that the Bipartite reformed in 2006 and that in the Greek agent left it as it was. What we're doing now is raising this rule to legal rank, a rule that has applied all administrations, including that of the Bipartite, and of course we're already open to accepting some of the amendments that have been tabled on this issue. These are the three reasons why you vote against the admission of the procedure, and that's why, before you conclude, I want to make a little further reflection on the dialogue we have on this law. And we thank, by the way, the position of the Block, we thank that abstention, which is a demonstration that if we want to reach agreements in the final contents of this law and that, of course, we will also try to achieve it. Of the most of the thirty laws that the Government has handed over to Parliament, presided over by Nuñez Feijóo, in this legislation, there was only one law, that of archives, that did not receive any amendment to return. In the rest, 32 of the 33 projects, we had to debate in this plenary an amendment to the whole; 32 of 33 were also the joint projects that came out of this House without a single vote in favour of the opposition. We only broke this record in the last Transparency Act, where we managed to get the Socialist Group to vote in favour of the Transparency Act as well. Of course, this is a clear contrast to the behaviour of the majority group in the admission of opposition law proposals. I would like to recall that we have already passed the Proposal for a Regulation Reform Act, the Proposal for a Law on Equality of the LGBT Group, the Proposal for a Law on Sickness Terminals. From the Block we have approved the popular legislative initiative, and we are further processing the Hunting Law. And from AGE we approved the Animal Protection Act in Galicia. So here it starts to be a paradox, and that's that we're able to negotiate your texts and reach agreements, and you're unable to negotiate and reach agreements with our texts. I think we are giving samples of – although most – the ability to accept, negotiate, and approve rules that originate from the opposition; however, they do not give those same samples from the opposition benches. We thought that this law because of its technical characteristics and its remarkable improvements in the protection of public interest could at least incite the consensus of being admitted to the proceedings without an amendment to the whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u31	But it's not clear. And we think that in order to achieve consensus, we have to debate a text, not reject it before it comes up. The project is in the Chamber and despite this attitude, to this past, to this record of previous laws, we will continue to seek agreement and consensus on this norm as in all the others that are being dealt with in the House, because we think and believe that the agreement, consensus, is the best way to legislate in the pursuit of the common good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u32	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica from the amending group. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u33	Thank you, President. Consensus is the best way to legislate in the pursuit of the common good. And the question is, how many amendments to the last law passed in this House, the Budget Law, have been accepted by the party that is in the Government? Consensus is the best way to seek the common good. [[Applause]] It seems we have to follow the steps of the Basque Country because we do not have our own Statute of autonomy or our own autonomous community with different competences in the Basque Country. We have to read the Autonomy Statute, and we have to read Paco Rubio again, I read it again, it's good to read it from time to time: It's common that once the first draft is prepared – this is not a draft, it's already a project; there's a draft, a preliminary draft, a draft of the draft, and then the project's draft – the project's promoter minister communicates it to groups of the affected sectors. Even at times, the draft prepared is made public, which is thus being discussed by the public. We, of course, had three reasons to present our refund amendment. First, there was no dialogue, there was no negotiation, there were no attempts at consensus, neither in the draft nor in the draft draft nor in the preliminary draft nor in this project. It is now when the possibility of consensus is offered. There wasn't. And, man! to tell me about internal reports of bodies of the Board itself, we suppose they will be in favour of its draft, preliminary draft and project. The report by the General Council of the Judiciary, I really keep my opinion on that report. You do not sink into the improvement of the Judicial Council of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. If so, it would be as simple as summoning public squares, new oppositions, so that there are more Galician lawyers and lawyers who can develop their work well. There's no need for private legal assistance. So much so that a university in Greece has made claims to this project. We don't know if they got to the vice president, of course, to the parliamentary groups themselves; we assume that the vice president too, although no reference appears at any time in this project that comes to us. What this university says is that this law may be contrary to the 2013 Autonomic Public Sector Rationalization Act, of which you assume so much. To comply with the law, to comply with this law, because it is an offence, in times of crisis that run, for the lawyers and lawyers of our Autonomous Community, that do not go to the bodies of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community in case it is necessary, for example, to offer them this Greek university, and they have to go to private institutions, bodies or private persons. In the use of Greek they comply with the Language Standardization Act, which is 1983. It's so worrying about the situation, and don't tell us here that the electronic file makes it easy, Mr. Puy, to work in English, because you don't know how the electronic file works or how the electronic file works. Minerva system does not exist in Welsh, it does not exist! Go to the judges and ask, there is no English! And the electronic file, you better not talk about how it works, you better be quiet. If not, go to court and ask him, and they'll tell him. And I'm not telling you anymore if you ask about the Greek within the Legal Counsel. I'll tell you again that in Pontevedra there's a lawyer all over the province, a single lawyer!, and there are other provinces where there's no one who uses Greek, ever, not even to write. So worrying that it is true that the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe for the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages says in its report that there are shortcomings in the judicial field, and I urge you to change it legally to allow the development of processes in our language. This is a great opportunity for you to do it. Only this gives rise to an amendment. In the end, as you have the absolute majority, they'll get the text you want, and then they won't. Just as simple as that law of transparency and good government they talked about, which talks about limiting the management of a government in functions to the ordinary affairs office, and then, when there's a government in Madrid in functions that makes a decision like that of Ence that remains in Pontevedra's stream for 114 years, you shut up, because it seems to be clear, we have to follow the Basque Country, but Madrid, the State, does not have to follow those limited, minimal, limited jobs of government in functions. That's the way you understand democracy, respect this House. And perhaps you understand – we understand – democracy defends convenience. Not us. They negotiate, withdraw the text and, of course, Mr Rueda, close the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Next legislating text. Proposal for a law, on a popular legislative initiative, on measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u35	To present the defense of the bill has the word Mr. Carlos Fernando Branco Parga, to whom I ask you to approach the rostrum of speakers, and for that I ask the first vice president to accompany him to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u36	Good day and congratulations, Mr. President and Mrs. Vice-President. I hope you have flexibility, since I'm new in charge. Ladies and gentlemen... Do you hear me? Is that it? It's a lack of practice. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and trade unionists, in the last debate of the state of the Greek nation, President Feijóo said that he was asking for concrete proposals. When I listened to that debate, I was led by this very ILP, which today presents the Gallega Inter-union Confederation with regard to the electricity sector in Galicia. What we are actually doing, what we are going to do or try, is a concrete proposal. Galicia, over time, has specialized in electricity generation many times in a forced, military way. Significant part of our country has been devoted to electrical production. That leads us to the fact that, today, Galicia has a great power installed, it is a net producer surplus year after year. In the last published reference, Galicia exports 40% of the electricity it produces, but on the contrary, that does not mean any benefit to the country, beyond the direct jobs it creates. This focuses on the ILP presented by the IGC. First of all, request or request a public presence from the Galician, the Government of Galician, the Government of Galician, in the electricity sector. There are models in Europe, there are models in the state, which can be used. Also production capacity with renewable energies. We're an wind power, we're a hydraulic power, it's not why, it's because we have specific conditions for that. Give an example, because time is limited and finite: an airliner installed in Galicia can work perfectly over 3,000 hours a year; when an airliner installed at other points of the State, in the Meseta, it works 2,500, 2,200, 2,300 hours a year. That's to enhance our capacity, which we have, in renewable energy, also in photovoltaics. Even, curiously, one of the world's experts in photovoltaic energy is Greek or Welsh. On the contrary, it is not used for this country. Galicia, one of the issues that define it as a nation, of its singularities, is its population dispersion. If you were to bet on renewable energies, photovoltaics, self-consumption, Galicia would have another great capacity to produce, and it would be quite enough for our population dispersal, to save costs of distribution and transport problems. However, current state legislation limits or penalises self-consumption economically. But it must also be said that, exhausted from the autonomous coal of the Germans, the yellow brown lignite, both in Meirama and at the Bridges, Galicia is deficient in raw matter. We are a transforming power, but it's also true that we are deficits in raw materials. That should force us to be responsible for the use of energy. In this ILP, concrete progress is being made in savings and energy efficiency, where, for example, there is still a lot to walk in the field of Public Administration. We also request – as could not be otherwise – the inclusion of Galicia in the State Coal Plan. Galicia had two mining cages that were intensively exploited, however, the Current Coal Plan, 2013-2018, signed by the Ministry of Industry, by the Government of the State, and Spanish trade unions taxfully exclude Galicia from the profits of the coal plan. It benefits other communities, the five autonomous communities that have coal, which have fewer competitors to share money in infrastructure and business aid. It's the first time it's given and has a perverse, totally negative effect. Galicia has certain industries that are [...] in the use of electricity, in particular – are the companions above – Alcoa, Celsa, Megasa, Ferroatlantica. These companies and others today win an invention by the Government of Madrid which is to make an annual auction on the price of energy. Industries of this economic volume, this generation of jobs, vitals in some region of the country, who have every year to submit to a kind of Russian roulette to know what's going to happen next year is a real nonsense, this doesn't happen anywhere in Europe. Industrial tariffs must be known, predictable, with a barrier to known movements, as happens elsewhere. We can't wait year by year to see what's going on with that industry, because that also reflects investments to update and modernize these industries. Nobody invests if they have no perspective beyond a year. That's why we also demand a predictable industrial tariff. By the way, saying that the state's electricity tariffs are the most expensive in Europe, for many reasons. Today we don't have that time, it's not the object of this ILP, but they're the most expensive thing in Europe, which is a totally negative element for industrial settlement and competitiveness. But ILP has two aspects that are central, one is the demand for a Welsh electric tariff, and another specific measure against energy poverty. He said before Galicia is surplus year after year in electricity generation. Even if we're poor in raw materials, we're transformers because of the conditions we have, in the wind, in the water. If it is the thermal power plants – which are – in practice coastal, a logistics to bring out coal is entirely possible, superimposed, already being done. We don't have, as they have inside, other regions inside the state, thermal power stations where coal can't be taken out there. Here you can bring it out perfectly. But what do electric receipts make up, what does an electric charge make up? Basically two concepts. One is the electric market itself, the electric pool, which is a sort of daily auction of every hour of the day. Today the average price on the market is 50 euro megawatt. We're not going into that because it's a peculiar market that we don't like, and it's not the subject of this debate. What we think is important is the other concept, the electric tariffs, which is where the Government of the State decides; it is the political part of the electricity tariff. To say that the costs of a normal year are approximately three budgets of the Galician Union, around EUR 25,000 million in round numbers. What's going on in these beaches, where can you intervene politically? A lot of questions. For example, the transport of energy. The energy in transport is lost, and we all pay for it in solidarity. There is a municipality in the rural region of Galicia that produces more electricity than the entire Autonomous Community of Madrid, which triples in round figures the population of Greece. Bringing electricity from Galicia to Madrid – I say Madrid because it is a paradigmatic example, we could put others; there are more deficit communities, and some of them very industrialized – means that transport losses are paid all and all by solidarity; the Welsh and Welsh also by solidarity. But in the beaches there are more concepts of interterritorial solidarity: extrapenisular energy costs. Balearics, Canary Islands, Ceuta and Melilla are very expensive because of their state of isolated electrical systems. What the system does through the beaches is that we all pay extrapeninsularity in solidarity; in a normal year, 1,800 million euros. We are solidarity with Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Ceuta and Melilla, 1,800 million euros. I always say, when I talk about electricity, everyone goes a few weeks of their life to the Canary Islands. Well, you know she's got paid light. She's been paying for it over the years. Interterritorial aid concepts continue to exist. Looks like there's a PP deputy who never went to the Canary Islands. Well, as soon as you can, go ahead. But there are other aspects of aid, of interterritorial solidarity, such as aid to Spanish coal. Dear, not competitive in the current electrical framework, 500 million euros. And there are aids to certain technologies: the combined gas cycles. They've made a lot of them and they're just producing, and under the concept of spare capacity premium, the system has paid you 500 million euros every year. And a concept that ended last year, in October 2015, that we came paying over the years, the nuclear moratorium. There are five nuclear groups that have never been made in the state. Some of them had civil works, but some of them were just land movements, and they were paid over the years EUR 5.700 million. For some land movement we paid more than EUR 1 billion via electric tariff and receipt. In this hypersolidary scenario with territories, with technologies, with companies, will it not be necessary to ask for a bonus, a reduction in peas, those territories that must have specialized in the electricity generation and we have no benefit, that we don't even have a company based in Galicia? We, the IGC, do not deny solidarity, but also return to the country. That's why we demand a reduction in the rates of 30% as a surplus country that we are in electricity production. We'll also see on the second shift, because now it doesn't take time, as the only fare in the state is a falsity. It doesn't break anything because we have a 30% bonus. And a second aspect for us, too, in the popular legislative initiative, is energy poverty, measures against energy poverty. Today, in a situation of total precariousness and widespread poverty, the concept of energy poverty is a colloquial, intuitive concept. We all talk about energy poverty when someone can't afford the light receipt or the gas receipt. The aim of the IGC with this initiative is to define in concrete terms what is energy poverty beyond the colloquial. Energy poverty, for us, is when a family unit has to devote more than 10% of its income to paying for light or gas receipts and it can't keep its living between 18 and 21 degrees. It's not a concept that invented the IGC at random, it's in the English legislation; it was in a bill passed by the Catalan Parliament, and what we ask is that, when there is a family unit in that situation, which allocates more than 10% of its income to light and gas and fails to maintain living between 18 and 21 degrees, that is, the public administration who takes charge of the energy receipts. I know there are social bonds, even energy tickets; there is even a social bond approved by the Government of the State that does not even take account of economic income issues. Any Member or Member of this Parliament who is a large family, simply because he is a large family, has the right to social welfare because he has no economic issues. But we don't propose the ticket or the bonus, we propose a right, we do not pass the alms, charity; I pay the bill for two months and then I stop paying it. No, no, this is a right, like education and health. Or does anyone today, in current times, think you can have a house in Galicia without heating or light? What quality of life is that? The public administration will actually have to negotiate with supply companies, as it happens in other territories, but as a right, not as a point of order or as a point of issue. In Galicia we cannot have these contradictions as a country: we are surpluses, production to force, occupation of land, disappearance of populations, dedicated to the country to producing electricity, and no benefit to us, no! Our industry has to have some guarantees, our population has to have a bonus, we can't afford energy poverty situations in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u37	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u38	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. And this, finally, is what the Glaga Inter-union Confederation is presenting here today, which hopes and wishes for the support of all parliamentary groups. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u39	Thank you, Mr. White Parga. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u40	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. We welcome and welcome the promoters of this initiative which you will support with your vote. This proposed popular legislative initiative law, which reaches this hemicycle for its consideration, seeks to resolve the injustice that is suffering from Galicia since the capitalist system located it as a producer and exporter of electricity, with the irreversible environmental cost that has brought with it the construction of embassies and hydroelectric power plants at home; an irreversible fact which in itself already makes us deserving of advantages at the time of electricity tariffs. The text we are discussing consists of two parts or chapters. In chapter I, it proposes an energy policy of its own and differentiated nature as regards our condition as a surplus producer and energy exporter, with factors that develop productive processes in the use of energy, such as aluminium in the plants that Alcoa has in Galicia. Measures such as the implementation of a lower electricity tariff for Galicia, starting from the reduction of 30% of the costs of the electrical system; and also the creation of a stable industrial tariff, with predictable variations, to which large consumers can be accommodated under the fulfilment of a series of consumer requirements, contracted power and availability of interruption of supplies, if necessary, for the management of the electrical system. These tariffs, these proposals, would improve the competitiveness of the German factories in the current aluminium market, large energy-consumers industries, whose energy costs occupy the second place of expenditure after wages. The implementation of this industrial tariff, in addition, was attractive to business initiative and maintenance and job creation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a surplus and energy-exporting country, but the tariff framework is unique to the whole state. A frame which is also imposed by the oligopolie of the electricians in their decision-making centers, so far from us. Equality, equality, sometimes often, has to go along the path of positive discrimination. If the rate we pay is set at 45% for the cost of energy and the rest corresponds to the political costs, where government intervenes, but that we as exporting countries do not use most of them, it's not logical. It's common sense and justice that a bonus is applied to access fees that allow us a discount of at least 30%. It's possible and common sense, and for the common good in Galicia, owned by a government with a country project of the future, to design and apply an electrical strategy of its own, for the benefit of our industrial fabric and the growth and maintenance of employment, and which also complies with the universal right of the entire population of Galicia to electricity consumption. The proposal developed by this bill would benefit the whole of Galician society: industry, employment, the brake on youth emigration and industrial relocation, as well as the most disadvantaged class. There are 100,000 Greek families suffering from energy poverty. The popular legislative initiative proposes a stable, known and predictable industrial tariff, as is happening in France, Germany, and the Spanish State in Basque Country, among other examples. This stable industrial tariff for large-consuming companies, such as Alcoa in San Ciprián, would replace the current non-interruptibility thrust system, ending with the insecurity that causes the annual push in this type of company. In addition, the current mail system causes hyper-retrieved energies and multi-millionaire benefits for private companies. The first auction of the so-called uninterruptibility service organized by the Spanish Electric Network took place on 17 and 21 November 2014, an option by the competitive auction industry, similar to other known markets such as the farthests or flower markets, but with the difference that in this case it is a blind auction; in fact, it competes by counter or supply point, giving rise to the fact that the same plant competes with itself. The refusal of the Spanish Electric Network to carry out preliminary tests before applying a little sensible experiment as defined not by this Member, but those responsible for some affected industries, alarm and concern the working class of the sector and also the managers, of which many fear prices will safely go down, which will increase the electricity bill of the Spanish industry and in spite of the Welsh industry. The current pricing system puts these industries in a situation of uncertainty and leaves them stranded by the impossibility of having reasonable energy costs, as a result of these companies leaving Galicia in search of better conditions as compared to the supply of electricity charges. Not to mention the unstable situation in the international aluminium market, which has been altered by Chinese production, which has reached 55% and is growing at its low cost. And this affects Galicia in a unique way, so that even the president, Mr. Alberto, accompanied by the Industry Councillor, meets with the President of the Spanish Electric Network in order to request the increase of the auction deadlines in two or three years, with the same maintenance of conditions. Insufficient demand, because it is about replacing the current auction system with another stable – I repeat, stable – that allows industries located in Galicia to compete with other countries. Mr Trenor also, in his speech in this Chamber on a BNG GNP on a German electricity tariff, defended by Mrs Adán, recognized the need for a new stable system of prices to promote the continuity of large energy consumers – Mr Trenor's quote – "as a measure of maintenance to job creation". Mr Alcoa would be mentioned in particular. So I hope you take this initiative because the arguments you used at that time support it. Chapter II of the legislative initiative, which we are discussing and which I hope will be adopted unanimously, proposes five measures to eradicate energy poverty and contemplate energy as what it is, a universal right. It affects 100,000 Galician families and realizes itself in the cores of coexistence that have – the proponent said – more than 10% of their income is allocated to the energy needs of their homes. Ladies and gentlemen, a new social tragedy which emerges at the beginning of the crisis and as a result of austere cuts by the governments of the People's Party. A poverty is hard to see because it's from door to door. We don't know how many homes they consume cans of conservatives because they can't light fire, how many children or girls do their tasks in the light of a candle with their feet like snow. A social drama which, according to statistics, causes 800 deaths a year in Galicia, 800 deaths!, to the shame of our rulers, resulting in health problems and social exclusion. A poverty that affects, like not, the most favored classes of our society, because its causes come from low incomes, insufficient quality of housing and the customs tariffs applied by electricity throughout the state without politicians doing anything to remedy it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u41	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u42	It is clear that the measures taken by political leaders are insufficient, even though Galicia improves in the ranking of countries as compared to energy poverty, because the objective of a good politician is that no German, that no German, will go through the terrible experience of having to choose between hunger or cold. I hope that this popular legislative initiative, endorsed by many municipalities, in addition to the accompanying signatures, will be adopted unanimously, and that, if so, the amendments that apply to it in the parliamentary process do not distort the spirit of the initial text, which is only to guarantee energy as a public service for Galicia's economic and industrial development and the eradication of energy poverty. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u43	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u44	Good morning to all and to all. Let me have a joke before I start. As you can see, I'm still nervous about taking the presidency from Mr. Santalices, and I couldn't help but stumble back on the mate's devices. [[Laughter]] I'm sorry. In any case, thank the people who trusted me as president because I think it is an element of disappointment at the attacks on the former president, which is to be thanked. In any case, the first thing I want to do is thank the collective, the people who bring here to this House a popular legislative initiative. It is an element that is always extraordinary, and it should be normal in a democratic country that citizenship has the ability to bring them to the House that represents them all and every initiative to be debated. But it's no less true that they rarely succeed in being cared for by those who are most hospitable. A People's Party that demonstrates that it is absolutely isolated from the social reality of the country; a People's Party that in many communities – possibly also in this one – are genuine corruption machinery that is presented to the elections, as is demonstrated today by what happens in Valencia, with a police raid exclusively to that corruption machine that was presented to the elections in that autonomous community. So today is a day that we thank the initiative. Of course, I make AGE own each of the comments the rapporteur made – or the person who defended the initiative – from this stage because we shared each of the issues that were said here. And we're not going to go in and explain what you've explained very well about the industrial tariffs, the political tariffs this country pays, but if we want to focus on a question that seems absolutely fundamental to us, and that's the concept that electricity has to be considered a right, and that in today's society, without electricity, citizenship cannot live decently. In this initiative, energy poverty is mentioned, and energy poverty is much simpler than it seems. Energy poverty is thousands of families in this country – more than 75,000 families in this country – who cannot have anything in their fridge, who can only have hot water, have no light, and that in the evenings they have to sleep together to have something to warm up and shelter with blankets, because they are unable to have the resources to pay for their heating. So the first thing we would have to do from this Parliament is to be exemplary and not to live in a Parliament other than this reality; a Parliament to be housed in summer and almost naked in winter. And here we should also understand that, if we are able to be in this kind of bubble surrounded by a reality that affects 75,000 families in this country, of course, the first thing we have to do is solve this problem to people; a problem that has already been shown – there are reports about it – that already kill the cold waves in Galicia more than the heat waves. Because much of our population is incapable, because of its economic inability to survive by the politics of the Troika and those who defend them, of keeping their homes in proper condition. So in this norm, where the need to ensure that energy is not cut off from those people who cannot pay, and that it is also clearly defined what is the concept of energy poverty for those who present the norm, we believe that we have to go a little further, and that is why we have to admit this initiative and be able, even, to take one more step. It's not a question of electric companies receiving payments that families can't make from the state era. It is also a matter of – as it is said in the initiative – lowering taxes, it is a matter of lowering the costs of electricity; an electricity that has its cost based not on political decisions, but on something that is very obvious: turning doors. The rotating doors of this country are electric. Tens of public offices of the People's Party, but also of the Socialist Party, after leaving governments on shift, end up on the board of directors of the electricians. Those electricians who then make decisions that make the bill of light in this country grow exponentially every year; that make it impossible for many neighbors and neighbors to have the right conditions for maintaining temperature in their homes; that makes one of the worst moments a family lives every month, or every two months, it's when they get the electricity bill. When you can't understand that you've been trying to dodge that spending all month, and it turns out that when the bill comes, the bill is still astronomical. So what you're considering is as much as telling you once for all the electricity that's already good, which can't be that all over the country govern these companies. And what you have to do is to be able to meet the needs of your neighbors, because the problem comes from that corruption of the turning doors, but also from the liberalisation of the electric sector. We continue to advocate the need for public power supply companies. So we need to recover strategic sectors like this for the public, to ensure that those things that are fundamental to the quality of life of human beings, neighbors and neighbors of this country, are not in the hands of the market. Because it's indecent that something like the price of energy, which means being able to live or die, is in the hands of the market. And those who make decisions don't care that people die from energy poverty, because what they take into account are the profit accounts of their industries. Otherwise, the profit results of last year's electricity companies in the state as a whole would not be explicable. In the state as a whole, 7,100,000 million euros of electricity profits while thousands of people died from energy poverty. In 2015, an increase of 20.8% of the profits of the electricians while the workers had frozen their wages and were fired with compensation for misery. But electricity increasing business profits by 20.8%. How do electricity companies understand that they have three times more benefits than the budget of this country's Health Council? How do you understand, therefore, that we should continue with what we have to pay the electricians what they spent? What we have to do is, once and for all, rule for the majority of society, and the majority of society is ask for this to be a quality public service. There are political culprits – some of us know them – but the INE itself shows that energy poverty – in data from the INE over the past four years, that is, the years of government of the People's Party – has increased by 65%. So, having identified the social reality, identified the culprits of this massacre, the culprits have to make the decision to, at least, admit the process to debate how from this country we can be able to help our people, to help the industry, which also has a complex situation with respect to the rest of the state and other places of Europe, but also, as not!, so that once and for all Galicia is not a place to exploit without anything left here. And very well it has already been explained how it is possible that being a power generator we have just no benefit from that generation. We assume all costs – environmental and social – but we are unable to ensure that any benefit remains in our country. Therefore, congratulations from our organization to those who present the initiative will count on the vote in favour of our parliamentary group. And we hope that if you have assumed, once and for all, that those who govern have to rule for the majority of society, and the majority of society, what you are demanding is that a sector like electricity be a strategic sector and therefore have a part of the public that ensures that access in conditions worthy of electricity is a right of citizenship for the set of neighbours and neighbours of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Congratulations to the new president. We hope now that the rostrum will have in all the full guests. Also to greet the people who accompany us, the promoters of this popular legislative initiative, the Galega Interunion Confederation, and to congratulate them on this effort, for this work of bringing to the Greek Parliament an initiative to speak about our energy, electricity and energy poverty as well. Congratulations also to all the people who have signed this popular legislative initiative, because we cannot forget that there have been more than 17,000 signatures of people who have been concerned about the situation that Galicia is experiencing with regard to energy and which are the concrete measures that – as the rapporteur explained very well in his speech – bring to admit the process as ideas for the German Government to assume, we have a Welsh electric tariff and the elimination of energy poverty. I want to start with a little reflection on the nature of energy, because we are listening – and so we hear Mr. White in his intervention – which is a right, which is a public service, but if we go to the last law, to the law of the electricity sector of 2013, elaborated by the People's Party, it comes defined not as a right, not as a public service, but exactly as an economic activity of general interest. That's the problem, that for the People's Party electricity and energy is not a public service, it's not a right, it's an economic activity. An economic activity that actually leaves its profits in the offices of the big electricians and leaves people with light off and without heating when they can't turn it on. An economic activity that leaves its benefits in the offices of the big electricity, mainly in Madrid, while the environmental costs, while the costs of energy production, leaves them here in Galicia, without any benefit to the Greeks and the Greeks, without any benefit! That's why we start today that this proposal comes to restore electricity, energy, as a public service and as a right of all people and the people of Greece. From there it's divided into two parts, as has already been explained: a first, in which it essentially defends that Welsh electric tariff with two benefits for families and people. In fact, for companies, for industries and also for large electricity consumers who fluctuate their jobs every year according to those things that have already been explained. We have talked on many occasions about the Greek electricity tariff in this House, both from this rostrum and from the Committee on Industry itself. Too bad the Industry Councillor isn't here to finish this whole debate. I've always wondered why the People's Party and the German Government, as a whole, don't even assume the possibility of doing a study, with the mechanisms that the German Government and the Industry Council and the Galician Energy Institute themselves, on the advantages and possibilities that would give a Welsh electric tariff. And something I ask myself on repeated occasions, because they have still recently voted against this possibility. To actually study what it would mean in our economy, in the production of large electricity industries, in small and medium-sized enterprises, and in families and people in general, the possibility of a reduction, as the rapporteur well explained here, and how perfectly explains this legislative text which is being debated today: which would mean a reduction of 30% in the fees. Something that is – from our premise – of absolute justice, since energy production takes place through the natural resources that are of all Greeks and Greeks. And, therefore, if these natural resources of all Greeks and Greeks are the ones that are producing that electricity, why is there no such reduction, that possibility? or, why does the People's Party deny itself completely, not even so much, to analyze the possibility of that Greek electric tariff? As the People's Party well knows, because in addition to reaching an agreement with the PNV, there is a Basque electric tariff, or something similar to that Basque electric tariff. For example, if there exists, that is to say, a reduction in the fees paid by the Basque industry, and that minority we can put the name they want, but in fact in many newspapers it appeared like this, as a Basque tariff, and I bring here one of the debates that have occurred about it clearly... I will read the headline to all the Members, but mainly to the People's Party, in this attempt to convince them that at least they assume the process of this initiative: "The fall of light to the Basque industry creates great discomfort among their rivals." Rivals were referring to all companies and industries which, in fact, see how they do not lower their rates, but there are places where if they are achieved through a political pact in the debate process of the last law of the electricity sector in 2013, because there are fees which, as has been explained here, are political fees and therefore their minority or rise depends on political decisions. And we understand that we take this popular legislative initiative and, therefore, we reduce our rates by 30% is a political decision. If the People's Party votes against it is because it is politically against that Galicia has a cheaper electric tariff, because if it is absolutely possible. And what we can never understand since the Galician Nationalist Block is why the People's Party systematically votes against initiatives on the elimination of energy poverty. It's a fact that energy poverty is one more element of those inequalities that have come to produce the policies put in place on the right and on the People's Party. An 18% – that's the calculations according to the reports that exist – of the people of Galicia cannot pay the electric bill or have real difficulties to do so. That's what they call people who are vulnerable consumers. Well, then what do they have in the administration? An absolutely insufficient ticket that doesn't reach 0.5% of those more than 180,000 families, living units, that can't cope with the receipt of light. Well, not even 0.5 percent comes up with that energy ticket that we are proposed – rather like propaganda – from the Government. And you don't systematically assume that energy poverty is one of the biggest problems people have today. In fact, four or five years ago, if we look back, there was not even so much this concept used by people who work every day in the field of NGOs and poverty. Recently – and you know it perfectly – the European Union itself speaks about all the measures that must be taken to prevent and combat energy poverty, and one is clear: to avoid the cuts in supply of light. What this popular legislative initiative today proposes to us is that the Administration assumes that no light cuts are made. I consider, we consider, that if you should force the electricity itself, that you have really alarming benefits, that you have never cut off the light to people who can't pay. But in any case, if you cannot force them, it must be the Administration, as this initiative brings us to debate today, that it takes up these costs, because what is totally unfair, which is totally immoral, is that you can't turn on the light, that you can't turn on the heating, in a country like Galicia, in a nation like Galicia, where you produce 40% more than you consume. A nation that has no benefit for its energy production. In the face of this situation and after the explanation given by the rapporteur himself – to which we thank him for his presence today and also to all the comrades who accompany us today – the vote of the Galician Nationalist Block will be in favour of the initiative brought about by the debate, by the silence and depth of this initiative, because it deepens on a basic question: Can Galliza be able to manage his own natural resources for his benefit, as a Greek electric tariff requires? Not only because of that management of these resources, but also to increase the well-being of people on two levels: to eliminate energy poverty and to be an engine the very management of the energy of electricity, the industrial production of small and medium-sized enterprises. In economic matters, in matters of improvement and well-being of people's lives and, of course, in matters of improving our self-government, we consider this text very interesting and we will support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u48	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, let me first commend you for your new position. I would like to thank the promoters of this popular legislative initiative for their efforts and, of course, their commitment to what is a serious, economic and social problem in this autonomous community. And also thank the rapporteur for his intervention, which, beyond the relevant ideological differences, as always, the electricity sector in this country knows it well. This popular legislative initiative, which the Socialist Group will affirmatively vote on, I think it reflects very well what are the two major problems or the two major ways of acting and impacting the economic crisis. On the one hand, economic policy in a strict sense and, of course, the social consequences of those economic policies. I believe that the two chapters of this initiative perfectly address this issue. I want to start by talking about the part of economic policy, the part of the Greek electric tariff, initially of an energy reform that makes the People's Party, which with the alibi of a problem that objectively exists – I will not leave the responsibilities that previous governments may have – because with the alibi of that problem, which is the tariff deficit, which could also be talked about, and we have talked a lot about how it comes to this situation, what is its source, what are the difficulties to control it, because they are taking forward policies that clearly prioritize the interests of the big electricians, essentially grouped in Unesa, against another kind of economic and also environmental interests. I think it is convenient to know where the People's Party comes from, who put this energy reform into operation or into effect. I know it sounds heavy, but I remember Rajoy's cousin again, I mean, the insensitivity with the environmental issues on the Spanish right is historic. And we saw it yesterday, we saw it yesterday when the Ministry of the Environment, Agriculture and Fisheries gave... by the way, Ence went up 6% in stock exchange, I guess it'll be for something. [[Applause]] So this is the first question. Undoubtedly, in that tariff deficit, questions are being paid – said Fernando Blanco, the rapporteur of the popular legislative initiative, for me still being a partner here in the Hemicycle, but good – the nuclear moratorium is being paid. In fact, they are paying those costs to transition to competition, which are infinitely time-consuming costs, because I can understand that there is indeed a cost at the time of adaptation to a new market situation, but in any case you will have to define how much is and how much time it is returned. And, on the other hand, they're also remunerating, at the most expensive price of production, installations already very badly amortized. And this undoubtedly means benefits, it means increasing benefits. It means benefits, it means a frontal attack on the wind, on the photovoltaic renewable energies, and, of course, in this case Galicia appears as a great damage. It doesn't correspond now, it's not in the popular legislative initiative, but we should also take into account what was the absolute fiasco of the new wind plan, that industrial plan; I always want to remember it, 6 billion euros and 14,000 jobs. And the quantitative results of this energy reform, because we remember that the fundamental goal was that energy was cheaper in Spain. And we have data already from 2015: it's grown to 5.3%. It may not seem much, but if we note that practically the IPC is at zero, then, well, it looks a little bit more. And then, curiously, as happens every time you try to explain the inexplicable, the reality that it's not renewable energies that cause the high energy price in Spain, as we said before. And say so, in addition, the minister himself. The minister himself said that the price of electricity in Spain was in December 60% higher than that of the European average by the slightest wind. Do we agree, i.e., does the input of the wind into the system increase or lower the price? Because it makes the feeling that it doesn't increase the price of electricity in Spain. I'm talking about Minister Soria's statements, which is exactly what he said. And by the way, wind power produced the cheapest electricity in Spain in 2015, also said in this case by the Spanish Electric Network. Therefore, undoubtedly, the fundamental objective of this reform was not, at all, the issue of the tariff deficit, nor does it seem to be the energy tariffs themselves. President, it's been a while there, I'm saying because I have a... [[The President said words that were not understood.]] Okay. What we have is another question. We have the 1,206 million endesa benefits until September; we already have the announcement that big electricity will increase its dividends by 25% in 2017, which is not bad; and we have, of course, the average increases in the remuneration of electricity: Endesa 5.3 % growth, Natural Gas 5.6% and Iberdrola 4.6%. This is the general framework where we're moving. I mean, there are winners and losers. The theme of the Galician electric tariff. Indeed, the socialists question some general approaches coming from, let us say, nationalism; we believe, without a doubt, that in the matter of transport cost, reduction is perfectly assumed, because undoubtedly it is a component of the cost of general production and can therefore be affected. And, on the other hand, there are precedents, i.e., that intended market unit, because in other energy sources such as fuels does not apply, and indeed the case of Euskadi, although it is true that it is not an ad hoc Basque electric tariff, but it is true that it has allowed, through legislative changes, to adapt the electric tariff to the particular features of the Basque productive tissue. And the Basque productive tissue is a non-electro-intensive industrial fabric, in fact the only company that needed it was the electro-intensive, which was Arcelormittal, has just temporarily closed its doors at Sestao. And normally of average power the energy that needs the Basque industrial fabric and that Basque claim has been satisfied seems satisfactory to the sector. The third point, energy poverty. Indeed, these are the consequences not exactly, or exclusively, of energy reform, but rather of this kind of policy. Here in this Parliament we have attended surprising statements, many of them. I want to remember some, I remember when they emigrated more young Greeks in 2007 than in 2015, said the president of the Union, and also said that there were more poorers in 2007 than in 2015. He told us a story of average income, at last, something like budget execution and multi-annuality. In any case, what is true, and it's an empirically contrasted objective fact, with data from the official statistical institutes, with data from NGOs, with data from the State Association of Directors and Social Services Managers, is that social spending has been drastically reduced during the crisis. By the way, in the development of social services in Galicia we are in fourth position in the queue, and secondly I repeat the data are not from the Socialist Party, but from this State Association of Social Services Directors and Managers, and without any doubt long-term unemployment in time means brutal impoverishment, while active employment policies and coverage are drastically reduced. And in that context, indeed, energy poverty is there, part of that dramatic social situation. In our view, it should be part of that vital minimum income that we have proposed, the Socialist Party, which should actually cover food, housing, energy and water, and, without any doubt, we also understand that the People's Party to date the only thing it has done with this subject was, in some way, patchwork. For months he voted against the opposition groups' initiatives on this issue, denying the evidence that there were people who could not afford their light receipts. Then it put into operation a complex system, kafkiano, that's yes, electronic, because it's obvious that families with lower income, lower educational level, etc., are the ones that have the most facilities to maintain these systems of communication with the Administration. I want to remind the People's Party also that there are 12,000 families in Galicia that live in in infra-vivadas, 12,000 families are about the municipality of Vilagarcía de Arousa, i.e., in terms of size...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u49	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u50	So these kind of scarce mechanisms have been put into operation in the counties, complex disaggregated social policy of the Union, in fact those who manage them are the Council of Economics and Industry itself, something absolutely unthinkable, it's like they touched on the issues related to food problems in relation to income to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council. That is, absolutely inexplicable in political terms, and unfortunately we had an Industry Commission last week, on Friday, in which some of these issues were discussed in initiatives from different groups. We are very afraid that they will persist in the mistake, but what they can't deny is evidence, and the evidence is that energy is expensive, it's a serious problem for Galicia's economic fabric and it's a very serious, very serious problem for families in situations of poverty and social exclusion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u51	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me also to congratulate you on your election today, and I hope that you will receive the collaboration of all parliamentary groups, in the same way that you will receive from the People's Parliamentary Group, in order to make your work as best possible for the interests of the House, as not only of a political party. In the same way, I also welcome and congratulate them, in part, on their role as managers of the presentation of the popular legislative initiative, the representatives of the IGC, in the same way as I also greet the workers of the various companies that have been mentioned here and which are now attending the debate. I intervene on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group to set positions on whether or not a popular legislative initiative is presented here with three specific, clear and meridian articles; although Mr. Blanco, allow me to see that here the political groups are already taking advantage of any circumstances that have reached the ILP today to share verbal gifts which the People's Parliamentary Group has stopped, perhaps with the intention of convincing him that he must receive slaps because he is more sensitive than if he had not received them. But well, we also like to be treated with affection at one time, Mr. Voicer, and, therefore, we might be more sensitive. In any case, I agree with many of the precepts which Mr. White Parga set out here, and you must not forget certain things which have surpassed here above, as if they had no relevance. We inherited a tariff deficit of EUR 26,000 million, in the words of the former former President of the previous Government, because four or five times the nuclear moratorium. A nuclear moratorium that we are actually paying; the second nuclear moratorium, which we finished last year. We are with that, with a receipt of the indecent light, yes, indecent!, about what must be done and what has been done from the very first moment. In this case, we left a receipt of 360 euros in 2004 and received a receipt of 781 euros in 2011 -- 104% more. Even if you want to account now, we can count from 2008 to 2015, we can count from 2009 to 2014, and you can make as many percentages as you want to express, martyr numbers until you say what you want to say, but the numbers aren't debateable and they're soft, and they're like they are, and the data is irrefutable. You were wrong, governments were wrong in making consumer demand forecasts and making own consumption forecasts, installing 108,000 megawatts for a maximum consumption in 2007 of 45,500 megawatts. That's right, we pay them exactly the same, because the energies are all paid, they're all paid, more or less. It was designed that is abusive planned in 470 megawatts of photovoltaics, which have ended up being paid to 430 euros megavatio, 430 euros megavatio and installed 4,500 megawatts, that is what Minister Sebastián said according to the success that the landowners had in visits to the ministries and I found myself only at the Council of Ministers against all, that is the reality! But, in respect, we're going to enter today's ILP. I have already said that we agree with many of the proposals put forward here, not so much elsewhere, but in any case, Mr Blanco, as a spokesman for the group of proponents for this initiative, I would say that it is worth discussing, and that is why we are going to vote in favour of taking this popular legislative initiative into consideration, so that this Parliament can take account of it and draw up a legal text. That's the People's Party's commitment to vulnerable people as well, and in this case to the representatives of the people who bring their initiatives here. I am sure that it will be a legislative process which, with invaluable assistance, collaboration, supervision and control of the bodies of the House, will be perfectly consistent with constitutional order, and also a perfectly consistent order in accordance with the competence framework of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It won't happen to us, which won't happen, what happened in Catalonia, that wanting to legislate on definitions of vulnerable consumers, and also to legislate on the impossibility of cutting out power supply services, they saw as the constitutional court, truth!, that's Montesquieu's claim, the new Montesquieu with the new separation of the Lexislative, Executive and Judiciary powers personified in the Lord Voice of AGE with respect as usual. But well, in any case, I would say that it is suspended by the Constitutional Court, with which they are not enjoying the Catalans of that service, that by course they are enjoying it in Galicia, which can already be requested after signing the agreement of intense dialogue with the electricians so that the supply to vulnerable persons is not cut, which will only have to request and communicate it, and automatically the Board will take charge of invoices, of two bills up to an amount of 200 euros. They can say what they want, I insist that this text, this initiative, be dealt with and transformed into a legislative text. I also believe that it will be transformed into a legislative text and that legislative text will also serve, apart from the approaches made in the debate process, to provide actions that the Galician Union is taking place at this time, such as that convention to which it referred or that electric and social ticket applied by the Government of Greece by the mandate of this House; because a non-legislative proposal has been adopted, the proposal of the People's Party, of the People's Parliamentary Group, which did not count, Mr. White, with any vote in favour of any of the opposition parties, so now they don't like it. I remember an illustrious voicer in this House saying, "Accounts, they're stories!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh For they are not fairy tales, Mrs Adam, it is exactly the imperative mandate of an initiative issued in this Parliament and supported only, I repeat, by the People's Parliamentary Group. In any case, this social electric ticket will be used to pay for more-needed and less-resourced people from thirty-fifty euros in each bimonthly bill this year. It may seem to you little, but it is also complementary to the social bonus and other aid measures that are also under way by the Greek Government, a government that, you will say what you want, is solidarity with the people most in need; that's why an 80% budget has been approved for social spending. Maybe they don't need it, it's the same thing! You don't go to the social bond, they don't have to, they give up on him, which is also modified this year by state legislation. But, well, the social bonus came from where it came from. As far as the definition of energy poverty is concerned, we will have an opportunity to speak, because you know that I find that as a deep expert in the energy system knows that there is no specific definition, the European Union has not accepted it for Europe as a whole, and you know that this is a competition that has temporarily delegated to governments, because there is no unanimity of criteria. Here is a definition, which is the British definition most linked to some degrees to maintain a climate between 18 and 21 degrees of temperature in the homes, but the survey of living conditions, for example, or the survey of family budgets, for example, speak of other types of definitions, other types of incidences, among which are, for example, housing deficiency, which is more than 55% of the old national housing park, which has not been done with criteria of energy efficiency. And in that he's also working on Together with his efficiency plans, which aim to mobilise 45 million euros between the plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u53	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u54	...of the year 15 and the plan of the year 16. And I said this, Your Honor, I just want to congratulate you again on this initiative and tell you that you have the support of the People's Parliamentary Group and that it will be possible to enter the debate and bring constructive approaches to get the best legislative text out of here. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u55	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Closet, Mr. White Parga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u56	Well, first of all, as could not be otherwise, thank the five parliamentary groups who will support the consideration of this popular legislative initiative, both the Joint Group, the AGE Group, the Group of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, the Socialist Group and the People's Group. In fact, I did not say it in the first intervention, this popular legislative initiative is supported by more than 17,000 verified signatures, which largely exceeds the current ILP regulations, even if it exceeded the previous ILP regulations. It also has the support of more than fifty Galician municipalities, including six of the great Greek municipalities and three provincial deputies. Here, in the speeches, a certain debate has arisen, because sometimes we want to label the issues with regard to the Greek electricity tariff. We don't make fetishism about the name, yes about the concept. I mean, the unified electricity tariffs in the Spanish state have their origin in 1953, in franchise; there are European states in which there is no single electricity tariff. But even in the current legislation, the most recent one in 2013, Law 24/2013, in two specific articles that are in force, 16.4 and 17.6, with regard to electricity tariff, contemplates the possibility of creating territorial supplements, broken with the possibility of single electric tariff. And what are those territorial supplements? They are in the opposite direction, indeed, of what this initiative aims to do. What these two articles say about that law in force is that in those autonomous communities or municipalities where there are specific taxes on electrical activity, a territorial supplement for the same value of taxes may be applied – which is not being applied. In Paladin Romanian, if in our nation, Galicia, there are three electric taxes, namely: ecotax, wind canon and hydraulic canon, what that norm says is that it could be, if so decided by the Central Government, that the Greeks and the Greeks, above the current rate, we paid an equal territorial supplement of what is raised by these three concepts. Not applicable, but is currently in the legal framework. It is in the current legal framework, Law 24/2013. But it is that, in addition, at the time when that law is approved, a pact is given between the Government at that time – today in function, but the Government at that time – and the Basque Group at Congress. To be seen to serve a specific group in Congress. By this agreement there grows a non-existent toll, which never existed, to 6.1B; there was 6.1 and it collapsed in 6.1A and 6.1B. It is done by a purely technical question, because there is a singularity in the area of Basquel Herria, – not only in Basquel, sorry, in Basquel Herria and in some other territory – in a very unique distribution lines of the Iberduero era – before merging with Hydrola, who creates Iberdrola – which are given only in that territory. You raise that fee and you actually lower your rates, which is what we're interested in. In fact, at the expense order of this year, in the year in which we went, in 2016, it's the only lowering fee, the rest remain frozen. And it goes down by 6.7%. What does that mean? That the Basque industry is already paying this year as a whole 50 million euros less, 50 million euros less. And if someone pays a fee, he pays the rest. We don't call it a Basque electric fare, it actually pays 50 million euros less. They call it what they want, but it's a reality. But I'm telling you, I don't have much time. Aragon – away from nationalism! – has just recovered the concession of a hydraulic. There are ways to do this. A hydraulic whose production cost is 9 euros/megavatio. I told you earlier that today on the market is 50 euros/megavatio, 50 on average. What benefit is there for the Public Service?: Aragon. But there are examples in the country, Galicia also has creative capacity. We created the historical example of the biomass plant in Allarluz, in Allariz, for the benefit of the municipality. But there's a municipality in the country of Galicia that just decided to pay the electric receipt to all the neighbors and neighbors, the Town Hall of Walls. There are people who are working... why does the Wall Town Hall do that? He has little neighborhood, but he has huge income because he has enormous wind capacity. He has the cannon, but also other taxes, IBI, other taxes; not only the wind cannon, the environmental cannon, there are other taxes. Then revert the exception to the country. What we are moving about with this initiative is that this is done in the country as a whole. And, moreover, no alarms. You've commented here: aren't there any different fuel prices? Isn't it cheaper to throw in Ponferrada than to throw in Lugo? No precedents for water? Something we'll have to have the Greeks and the Greeks for our benefit, in a positive discrimination, without breaking the concepts of solidarity that go on in the beaches, but if something positive to the benefit of the people of Greece, but also...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u57	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u58	...of his industry. It's over, time's up. It is a complex issue, but in any case we will be very careful, very careful, how the work in Phoenicia, in the Commission and in plenary of this now draft law, which you will all support, so that at the end of what is approved in the Greek Parliament will collect what we represent in the popular legislative initiative. At least I don't know if it's in the name, but it's in the concepts. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Branco Parga. I pray to the House to accompany Mr. Branco Parga to the rostrum. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u60	We shall vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the Legal Assistance Bill of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. There must have been some problem with the vote and we're going to repeat it. Let's get started. There seems to be a problem, because they just changed this system recently, so, as there are two votes, if they don't mind making the vote by hand. It's okay, it's the first day and it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not going for now, we'll try to fix it, but this is even a good thing that happens on the first day, that everything is forgiven. No, let's... let's go. Let's vote. Voting the amendment to the full refund submitted by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists to the draft law of Legal Assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 40; abstentions, 12. The result of the vote is negative. The amendment is therefore rejected as a whole, and its parliamentary procedure continues. Vote on the proposal for a law, a popular legislative initiative, measures to guarantee energy as a public service and against energy poverty The vote was adopted unanimously, with 72 votes in favour. This bill is therefore taken into account and follows its parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u61	We move on to the third point of the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Adviser on Environment and Territory Planning, on his own request, to report on the general lines of action of his department The opinion of Mrs. Councilor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory, at the request of the 18 Members and Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to explain in which will change the policy on the environment and management of the territory with its arrival at the councillor's office
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u62	Cumulative debate of these appearances. The Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u63	Good afternoon to all, gentlemen. President and Vice-President, I thank you for this new appointment, and I thank you also to the Bureau of Parliament. I compare my own request in this House to note the strategies that since this council, the Territorial Environment and Planning Council, we are going to take forward in the coming months. We find ourselves, we understand it this way, at a time that is key to environmental issues worldwide. Today, the need for the environment of sustainable development and even a real struggle against climate change are irrevocable objectives that society as a whole must assume. We must make society aware that resources are finite and that responsible growth will inevitably affect the quality of life of today's generations and especially of future generations. To respond to this reality is one of the great challenges facing modern societies. In this sense, the Paris Summit, which was celebrated last December and which I had the opportunity to attend as a member of the Spanish delegation, will mark one before and one after, since for the first time 195 countries have adopted a joint agreement to put a stop to global warming caused by greenhouse gas emissions. The fact that there were almost 200 countries – among them the world's greatest powers, and even the highest carbon emitters – and the fact that these countries signed a binding agreement, suppose, and so we understand, a historical milestone and a point of no return. Of course, Europe has again, as it has been doing since the last few years, been at the head of this environmental awareness and the fight against climate change. Galicia also wants to be prepared to be an important part of this new Europe committed to sustainable and respectful development. That's how Galicia witnessed a heading she made on that water pact, which was signed at the Paris Summit. We have to work from now on to meet the demands, not only of this agreement reached in Paris, but of the environmental challenges that come before us. Since Galicia, we have been working and moving towards this goal for years: in efficient and responsible waste management; in the supply and sanitation of our waters; in the development of sustainable urbanism; in the fight against climate change; in the wagering, also, by placing value on our landscape; and in the protection, conservation and dissemination of the natural environment and the biodiversity of Galicia. During this appearance I will try to expose the main news, measures and resources that our board is going to design and launch this year 2016, in each and every one of the areas we've been talking about, that I have just quoted. First of all, I want to announce today that, as a result of our commitment to the environmental sustainability of Galicia, we are already working on a document that will lay the foundations for defining the environmental strategy of the Galician Union. It will be the first environmental strategy of these characteristics of the history of our Community, and which, as it cannot be otherwise, will also be consistent with the 2020 strategy that is defining the Union of Galicia. It is essential that the development of such a strategy be accompanied by a commitment to efficiency, organization, responsibility and transversality. Only by reversing our performance, and only by involving the rest of the administrations and social agents, will we achieve optimal results. A strategy that, based on a realistic diagnosis, accurately identifies which remains confronting Galicia in this new world scenario. It will also identify what are the opportunities that will arise in our Community in the transaction to a circular economy, to a low carbon economy, and even to eco-innovation. The ultimate objective of this strategy is to consolidate this commitment to the planet in all the issues of our society, starting, of course, by example, with the Public Administration. We brand ourselves as a time horizon in 2030 so that our Community can enjoy differential environmental quality and health. We work so that Galicia will become an internationally recognized region, in the value of its own resources, in the struggle for global environmental challenges and for the protection of natural resources for present and future generations. To get this strategy to achieve the results that we expect from it, you need to count on the most accurate scientific data, and with professionals who are at first level, who control them, who manage them, and even if they also analyze them, that is to say, have a diagnosis that is realistic. And for this, among other parameters, we count on one of the most recognised facilities, which is a reference to European level, such as the Galician Environment Laboratory, both in its headquarters in the Coruña and in its headquarters in Lourizán. But in addition to the ongoing work of information and research, which is being carried out within this laboratory, we will produce a new report on climate change, which is extensive and complete, which will analyse all the factors that have influenced this issue in Galicia. Our intention is to have the report ready before the end of this first quarter of the year. To prepare this, we are now collecting information from all departments of the Galician Union. The report will pick up progress in the past four years in fighting for the reduction of gases to the atmosphere, which, as you know, produce the so-called greenhouse effect, which is the main cause of the increase in earth's temperature. In this way it will continue to the first report on climate change in Galicia, which was drawn up in 2012 for the first time, and which collected 84 measures managed by all the Councils of Galicia, with an investment of 35 million euros. An action that is environmentally friendly and which is geared to sustainable development and the circular economy must, without any doubt, also maintain an active and responsible waste policy. This is a chapter that will also be very present in our strategic lines. In Galicia we have been taking firm steps for years, in fact we have successfully developed the Urban Waste Plan, which has just passed its equator, because it was from 2010 to 2020, and which is encouraging the four errors: reduction, reuse, recycling and recovery; essential for a true circular economy, thus reducing by 11% the generation of waste per capita in the last six years, eliminating 426 points of uncontrolled dumping in our community or increasing by 18% the net of clean points, and also closing landfills. This year we are going to take a new and important step forward, which is the start of a new plan, but in this case a new industrial waste plan in Galicia. A plan that will also form part of this environmental strategy, but that in this case will be overcome for the next seven years, thus adapting these deadlines – the seven years – with this Framework State Waste Management Plan, which was approved by the Council of Ministers last December and which will have within its objectives: firstly, involve all producers and consumers in the prevention of waste; promoting maximum recovery by minimizing disposal; encouraging the establishment of a circular economy; encouraging the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere, and even improving R+D+i. This will be the first specific plan of industrial waste in our community in the last decade – the last date of the year 2005 – and it will culminate in the important work that we have carried out since June in planning and managing waste to comply with the requirements of the framework directive on this matter. Since this month, the first draft of this plan, which will be exposed for forty-five days, is already available on the web page of the board so that all agents can make the allegations they consider appropriate. The gains achieved in waste management would be impossible not to be because Galicia already has a great reference in this matter, not only at the national level, but also at the international level. I'm talking about Sogama, who is voluntarily affiliated to 94% of Galician municipalities, and which represents a model of public enterprise, solvent, efficient and sustainable, and also represents a model of company in continuous process of analysis, in continuous process of improvement. That's why last year we first came up with a figure of 600,000 tonnes processed, that is, 1.2% more than the previous year, and even the historical figure of 360,000 megawatts per hour produced on the thermoelectric plant through waste management, which is also an increase of 5.8% more megawatts compared to the previous year. And even 3,000 tons of glass and 11,000 iron derivatives were recovered. In order for this process of improvement to continue, and thus contribute to the environmental commitment in our community, which we have seen signaling from the beginning of this legislation, we will invest in this year 2016 EUR 36 million for the expansion of Sogama installations; EUR 30 million are intended for the construction of a new packaging recovery plant from the waste mass, and also for the remodelling of the current recycling, treatment and fuel processing plant, and with this new plant we will be able to treat all the waste currently reaching the complex, diverting only the part that cannot be recycled or valued. We're also going to build a new composting plant in Areosa's facilities, with a capacity of 15,000 tons and an budget that goes around 4 million euros. And we'll also invest more than 2 million euros in the expansion and maintenance operation of the two root plants of the complex. Sogama has become a foundation not only for waste management and recycling in Galicia, but also for the environment of an important phase linked to citizen awareness and education, but also to the fight against climate change. A model that already has recognition by the European Union, and which is also the cheapest – from the point of view of the canon – of the three existing plants in our community, and even one of the cheapest in all of Spain. The commitment to make Galicia a reference to environmental awareness must necessarily be accompanied by continuous work and even by the improvement of the water resources of our community. The quality of water directly affects the quality of life in a society in this society. Poor quality waters not only harm the environment, but also directly the well-being of people, and in this sense we have also made significant progress. Over the past six years, the percentage of water in good condition in our Galicia-cost demarcation has gone from 70.6% of the water masses to 77.5% today. Obviously, this is not 100%, so we can't be satisfied, and we have to keep working and continue investing to achieve that 100% good quality of all our water masses. And to achieve this, we have already put in place a new hydrological plan in this demarcation, which will be extended to the year 2021, and which has a joint budgetary commitment of 655 million euros. The Union of these 655 million euros is going to invest 65% of that budget, that is, 423 million euros. And about two thirds of the economic effort of this plan will be aimed at the execution of new sanitation infrastructures and the fulfilment of environmental targets. It highlights, in particular, the investment destined for our rivers, with 131 million euros, especially in the rivers of Burgo, Arousa, Ferrol and Pontevedra. Only in 2016 will we allocate EUR 24.6 million to the start-up of new sanitation and sewage facilities around the rivers, which means up to EUR 24.6 million, 150% more than last year's investment. And 15 million euros will also be invested, but in this case they will be linked to infrastructures that are already underway, to the completion of works as outstanding as EDAR de Vigo, as is EDAR de Ribeira, or even to the collectors of Ferrol and Narón. At the same time, we continue to carry out other actions, such as the spill control plan, which has been developing in full operation since 2009, and that this plan allows us to gather continuous and accurate information on which are the problems of spills facing the demarcation of Galicia-costa and which, above all, will try to solve them. In 2015, 2,600 inspections were carried out under this plan, and due to this action 2,000 points of discharge could be amended. One of the most important developments in the management of the Galicia-cost demarcation was the approval of the Flood Management Plan for the cycle between 2015 and 2021, which was recently adopted also at the Council of Ministers. A plan that complies with European legislation, both in the Water Framework Directive and in the Flood Risk Management Assessment Directive. This is a plan that first of all bets on prevention and minimizing the risks to those areas commonly affected by flooding, or those that are highly likely to be sealed. At the same time, for the recovery of its effects in cases where necessary, considering that we are talking about natural phenomena that cannot be avoided. In any case, the administration's actions will always be based on people's security, above all other considerations and property. The plan seeks to achieve a coordinated action by administrations and society, which leads to a rapid and efficient response to floods. The budget for this plan amounts to EUR 67.8 million, from which the board is close to 70%, that is, EUR 47 million. The plan has already identified 207 areas of significant potential risk of flooding, of which three have the qualification of very high hazard or risk, and two are the qualification of high or medium-low risk. Now, once the plan is approved, we're going to design specific actions for each of the identified areas, and even talk about sustainability commitments and commitments to nature and our ecosystem. On this line, if we're talking about commitments to nature, we can't help but make a special mention to our natural parks. Galicia has six unique spaces, which deserve the distinction of natural park, and even a national park. In total, these seven spaces, with incalculable environmental, natural and landscape value, make up 50,000 hectares, representing 1.7 percent of our territory. The importance of these spaces is reflected year after year in the number of visitors approaching them, it was close to 600,000 who came up to them in the last year, and that is why it is – by the incalculable environmental value that these spaces have – that this Government's commitment to natural parks cannot be anything but absolute. Preserving and preserving these spaces is an undeniable priority, and we want that conservation to be compatible, too, why not, with its enjoyment, because this also means dynamizing the geographic areas surrounding the parks. We know that conservation is not incompatible with visits to parks, as long as they are done in an orderly way and making conservation the first objective. So, one of my first actions as environmental advisor was to meet with the sponsors of the national park and the advisory meetings of the natural parks, to announce the creation of a network, the Greek Network of Natural Parks, because I believe it is absolutely essential that the seven parks in our community function in a coordinated way, that they take advantage of their synergies and work under a common planning; of course, always respecting the peculiarity of each of them. We want to promote these spaces in a joint way, so that they all have the importance they deserve, but that, first of all, they gain their conservation. So I announce that I will create the Gaga Network of Natural Parks and that this will mean having a common seal that will be linked to tourist services and activities not only owned by the park but also around these parks. So we will expand the supply of these spaces under the umbrella of the same brand, which will be the stamp of distinguishing the quality of our spaces. I'm sure working together is going to be an important impulse for the natural spaces and also for the geographic areas of their surroundings. I would now like to refer to one of the most important policy frameworks of this legislation in the area of urbanism and land management, which is also the debate in this Parliament these days, which is the new Land Law, a law which we consider essential for our territory, in which we have been working for many years, and which is a regulation that is going to culminate in a very long process that will lay the foundations for a sustainable and responsible urbanism. In this way we continue to a process that we have started years ago with the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan, which I assumed was an important starting point for this Land Law. Thanks to that Galicia is about to have a large law, conceived to be a standard that responds to current rural management and development needs and landscape protection. The new regulatory framework is designed for all Galician municipalities to have planning. And to achieve this goal, the law includes such important tools as the creation of a single autonomic report. In this way the process will be shorter, avoiding requesting sectoral reports separately. This simplification will also be agile when administrative silence is positive when it reaches three months. On the other hand, two fundamental figures will also be created, such as the autonomous basic plan and the municipal basic plans; these, in particular, designed for the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants, which can voluntarily choose whether they want to do their PXOM or whether they want the Board to make the municipal basic plan. And yet the law gives the seven great cities greater capacity, since it will be the seven great cities that will have the last word by approving their PXOM in their respective full. And we will reform the out-of-management regime, giving it greater clarity and legal certainty, and even giving more competence and autonomy to the municipalities, since they will have the capacity to authorize six uses now through the Louga to have the ability to authorize, without a report from the Autonomous Community, fourteen uses. We're talking about a law that gives priority to the general interest over any particular interest. And for that, it reinforces the obligation to finish externally the unfinished buildings and fosters the recovery of the already built against the new structures. The expectation is that the law will be completed soon, that its parliamentary process will be completed in the next plenary session. But this doesn't mean that the work is done here, but it's quite the opposite, since we're already working on drafting the regulation of this law, which will allow us to trace issues of development of the new rule that directly affect the practical application of the law. A very important regulation that will enable the law to be applied with current and sustainable criteria. So in the coming months we will be working on the drafting of this regulation, which we will always try to speed up in the pursuit of the highest consensus. Even since the Council is already working to begin the development of the Autonomic Basic Plan, which we hope to introduce this year to the Greek municipalities. This plan will be fundamental for further drafting of municipal basic plans. And, as I said, we've been looking for consensus from the very first steps of the law, and we want to seek consensus also in this final stage, and we want to find the best possible formula always in the search for the best solution for all the municipalities in Galicia. And let me refer here to a possibility which is now being assessed in this Parliament, which is the amendment to Article 144 of this law. This amendment will allow, exceptionally, those projects promoted by public administrations that are inconsistent with urban planning to be carried out always and when there are reasons for urgency or exceptional public interest and if there is, of course, something essential, which is the agreement of the municipality. We are talking about a proposal that guarantees legal certainty and offers a uniform and strict solution for all cases that may occur in our territory. It is a proposal which, in order to be able to practice, would have to have support for its debate of all groups. So allow me here in this gallery to appeal to this House for consensus and for common solutions. In environmental matters, it is essential to involve everyone, whether in the fight against climate change, responsible urbanism or even in the conservation of our landscapes. Landscapes are one of the most important things that we have in our community and certainly why we are most distinguished. The landscape is part of what we are, but it's also very important, and it's part of our future; so it's essential to protect them, preserve them and give them the importance they deserve. This is a work of all, not just of the public administrations; and of course, from the Unity of Galicia we have the obligation and duty to put the right frame for this to be so. And, in fact, it is already approved and functioning the Strategy of the Galician Landscape 2014-2016, which among its actions envisages the development of the Atlas of the landscapes of Galicia as a priority. In that atlas we are working to become a tool that enhances the most relevant landscapes of our community and also serves as a roadmap for the protection and management of our territory. So, this atlas is made up of the landscape catalogue and the landscape guidelines. In the catalogue we have already made very important progress; in fact, we are already finishing and this week we will present the final document to a group of experts, a panel of experts that is formed by sixteen people we have been working with from the beginning, allowing us to advise for them, who are the best professionals in our community. I mean, this same week you'll already have a draft of the first Catalogue of the landscapes of Galicia. In this catalogue, more than 200 social and private agents participated voluntarily in twelve outreach workshops that took place throughout our geography. One of the most important actions of this catalogue is the determination of those areas that are considered to be of particular interest to the landscape, areas that by their characteristics deserve special mention and protection. On the other hand, this total catalogue identifies 207 areas of special interest, areas that place different types of landscape values, either for their natural or ecological value, for their cultural or heritage value, or even aesthetic and panoramic. In addition, these areas will play a key role in protecting our landscape, since they will form the basis for the definition of the rustic soil of landscape protection, as provided for in the new Land Law. I mean, these areas are going to be one of the main tools for protecting and managing our landscape so that this new policy framework will protect all landscapes and especially the most unique ones. At the same time, we're already starting to work right now on the Landscape Guidelines, which is the second mechanism that's going to be part of this atlas. And so, once the atlas is finished, it's going to be an important tool for protecting the landscape of our community. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, since June we have been working hard to consolidate Galicia as a reference to consciousness and respect for the environment. In order to comply with this objective, it is necessary to count on the involvement of the whole society, of all the groups that make up this Parliament, including public administrations, social agents, private initiative and, in general, every one of the Greeks and Greeks. I think every day that this implication has to be greater, all the Greeks know of the natural wealth of our land, of landscapes, of rivers, of rivers, of the air of our skies. We know that all this, along with our culture, is what defines us as Greeks; protecting, preserving and valuing that wealth is a challenge we must overcome. And that's the objective of these initiatives that I've exposed throughout this appearance. Galicia – as I told you – will first count on a commitment document that will serve as a basis for the definition of the Environmental Sustainability Strategy, which will be the first strategy in its history. We will prepare before the end of the first quarter of 2016 that new report that is necessary and that has to be the realistic diagnosis of climate change in our community. In the next few days, we'll put a draft of Galicia's new Industrial Waste Plan on the Council's website, the first one to tell our community in the last decade. We also invest, invest, 36 million euros to expand and improve Sogama's environmental complex. And we also approved the first flood risk management plan of the history of the Galicia-cost demarcation, with an budget of EUR 67.8 million and a concrete approach to the Galician Union of EUR 47 million. We are also already implementing this new hydrological demarcation plan, which will be extended to the year 2021 with more than 600 million euros, of which 423 are from the Galician Union. And in the next plenary session, there will be an important process, which will be the new Law on Galician soil, the most important normative text of this legislation, which means the culmination of our work for the management of the territory and the search for responsible urbanism. But we're already working from the Conseileria on the development of this regulation through the Land Law Regulation, which we are planning to end in the second half of this year, and we're already working on the drafting of that Autonomic Basic Plan. This same week, the draft of the Landscape Catalogue will be ready, along with the Landscape Guidelines, in which we are already working, which will make up the Landscape Atlas. And we will also promote that coordinated network, which is the Gaga Network of Natural Parks, which will allow you to create synergies for the promotion and dissemination and the value of these parks in our community. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, we find ourselves at a time that is key to achieving a real and global level of sustainable development, a development that allows the use of resources, the quality and the well-being of today's generations but which at the same time does not endanger and guarantee their enjoyment by future generations. This is the time to accept that challenge but also to overcome it, and to stand up to what is expected of all of us. I assure you Galicia will be up to date. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u64	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u65	Thank you, President. Good morning. Counsellor, of course, it's a real act, because when you hear them talk to you, you seem to be the ones most concerned about climate change, and then it turns out that in concrete policies that are taking place, they all go to favour and promote climate change. And I'm telling you, without going beyond that, that the German Public Transport Plan is a tough one, there is no German public transport that responds to the needs of the citizenry and avoids the use of the particular vehicle. So, I don't know where you start the fight when you insistently refuse again and again to equip Galicia with a proximity train, repeatedly requested by all opposition groups and unilaterally denied by the majority absolutist of the People's Party. But you've talked about a lot of other initiatives. Well, since the water pact, I'll talk about it during the intervention. Hydraulic infrastructure. It's really scary to put in the hands of the People's Party anything called "hydraulic infrastructures" after you've known the case of Aquamed and the businesses you have with exactly this kind of industries, where Miguel Arias Cañete, Commissioner of Climate and Energy is accused. Because that's how it understands the climate and energy of the People's Party, like Arias Cañete, that's the intention of the People's Party. And if not, as I'm very suspicious, and after all that we've seen from the management of the People's Party and how the public money ends in the hands of private companies and does not act directly on the problems affecting citizenship, I'd like to know what concrete actions are going to be done in the Burgo stream with those six million euros that have been granted to them or that will be done in the rivers of Arousa and Ferrol with 800,000 euros. And I remember that in September last year, three AEOPAS technicians visited Ferrol's sewage dump accompanied by the mayor and the concierge. And on that visit they found out that EDAR was not clearing up and that it had too many deficiencies. The mayor reported that since August 2014 the plant was inaugurated, there has really been no complete debugging. So Urbaser acknowledges, who also warned Galician waters of structural defects, that they are still unsanitary and will have to repair them now. And I don't know if within these 800,000 euros together, Junta is planning to pay the expenses that Galician Waters should pay. What actions has the Council carried out in connection with this complaint? Did I do something in the legal field? Did you solve the problems, asked for responsibilities? And he also plots to know how with an budget of 400,000 euros, which I understand is what there is, if there is going to be a local sanitation plan in the river Pontevedra. And, of course, it's a scandal that you come here and you have the courage to talk about sanitation in Pontevedra's stream when you've just been granted an extension of the grant to Cence for sixty years. An indecency of a government with a foot on it, if it's not with both. A way of anti-democratic action, the people's back, deceiving people and condemning Pontevedra's laugh to constant pollution and total disappearance of sea products because of that pollution. It's you, of course... this is an act that I would call a criminal's own, because it affects the quality of life of people and it doesn't take into account the opinion of the Town Hall or the population of Pontevedra for anything; it's only taking into account the opinion of Ence, which is the only thing that really interested them in defending, the interests of Ence. But also, because of the floods – and you were talking about a flood plan – the mayors of Caldas and Cuntis report that Galician Waters have not yet presented the pending hydrological plan of application in the Arousa River and the bad state in which the rivers Umia and Gallo find themselves, who are responsible for the floods these years. But it's not just the Umia and Gallo rivers, the Galician rivers are abandoned, they don't clean up, they don't protect all the species of river, which were precisely those that avoided erosion and these floods. So I don't know what the plans are to avoid these floods, but I'd like you to insist on something on those plans, on which way you go when you keep giving yourself permission to continue building in the floodsome areas of the rivers and ever closer to the shore of the sea. That's your environmental policy: building in places where you shouldn't just build to give urban ballasts. As for waste management, there must of course be a great value to talk about Sogama as a solution, and much less a solution that gives an environmental response. It is true that there has been a decrease in landfill deposits in the landfills, it is true that Sogama has recycled more in 2015; but it is no less certain that, as a result of this crisis, there has been a lower production of waste. And because there's less waste production means that Sogama doesn't even have less waste is able to solve 100% of recycling, it's up to 80%. So he keeps insisting on incineration as a cheap method to get rid of the garbage. Thus, Greenpeace, for example, detects in Galicia 30 environmental black spots: Sogama, Once, vegetables in the creeks that I still don't know whether or not Junta has been investigated, but it seems you don't know where they come from, the high eucalyptization of our mountains and the great impact of the multiple forest fires. All of them have been denounced on numerous occasions in this House and have never had the support of the Government for its defence. One of the main black spots that points to Greenpeace is that Galicia only recycles or recovers 13.48% of the waste, and criticizes Sogama's plant for its high level of incineration. In addition, it defines Cerceda's garbage plant as a drug dump, because it has thousands of tons of pharmacological waste, which is so contaminating and doesn't seem to matter to the Government. Therefore, we believe that a participatory process with society must be initiated to change the urban waste management plan of Galicia 2010-2020, with the participation of municipalities, eco-associations and citizenship in general, in an urban waste plan that counts with the support of local authorities and society, which avoids the transfer of waste for miles from its collection to the ship where it will be treated and promotes reuse and recycling in origin. As for the sustainable management of the territory, you speak of the law of the ground. For both the Law of the Earth and the Bill of Cultural Heritage do not favour precisely the protection of our landscape and our natural surroundings. The Soil Bill, for example, does not provide for the need to obtain in all cases the autonomous urban authorization for constructions that house potentially polluting activities, nor does it clearly define the rustic soil in which extractive activities cannot be carried out, without the fact that such activity is clearly prohibited in the soils of special protection. According to the information provided by the Union, the Government of Galicia and the Official Chamber of the Galician Mining collaborate in carrying out and promoting various actions to improve environmental compatibility and territorial integration of extractive activities. I would like to know what this plan consists of and where it is published to know how the Board and the Official Chamber of Mining will come to an agreement to be able to open mines in Galicia while maintaining environmental quality and without affecting its landscape or urban values. So I'm telling you to see if in the answer you can answer these questions and you can tell us how you're going to protect the coast and what you're planning to do to reduce emissions by private transport and boost collective transport; and if you're also going to take some steps to reduce that pollution, something as simple as the Vigo-Pontevedra motorway frame, with more than 14,000 vehicles daily both on the side of the highway and through alternative routes. So we need a sustainable transport plan that also takes into account road safety. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u67	Good morning, Counselor. You talked about circular economy. Circular Economy is that the Labour and Wellness Council grant grants to an artificial, fictitious plot to obtain subsidies called Azetanet, and that Azetanet gives EUR 15,000 to the Galician People's Party, to which the Labour and Wellness Counsellor belongs in the Coruña? Is that a circular economy? Or is it circular economy that Pachi de Lucas speaks to Mr Feijóo to intercede for these companies and that these companies end up paying Mr Pachi de Lucas 3,000 euros a month? Is that a circular economy? I think it's circular economy. You're back from the Environmental Counsellor's Work Council after leaving behind a legacy called Operation Zeta in which there are now 55 defendants, after you had received a pocket of that plot, after you lied here saying that it was you who denounced the case. Liar, in the summary itself, says that those who started the complaint were workers, former employees of the company. And you, when you had legal filtrations that this was going on, came to try to cover up your performance. You put them back in a council office and you've got a CEO who's being charged right now. And there are several options: you might have been aware of what was going on, which is very serious, and you might not know what was going on, which is less serious, but I also think it's very serious and should be taken into account to put it in another council. I say that, as a prize to your management at the Labour Council, they put it at the Environmental Council. But well, we're overwhelmed by the democratic regeneration and the struggle against the corruption of the People's Party, and with isolated cases of corruption in the People's Party. They still arrested the former president of the People's Party of Valencia after discovering Aquamed's plot as well. I also ask you if you will review the Aquaes contracts, which were also signed on occasion by Mr – Creo – Fernando Ramos de Armas, number three by Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría. Cases of isolated corruption, I say. The People's Party has nothing to do with it. It's incompatible with corruption. They're isolated, but they're very common, more and more, more and more open. Mr. Arias Cañete too, the People's Party of Valencia, Mr. Aristegui, Mr. Gómez de la Serna, etc., we could be here all the way. Well, speaking of corruption, fighting the corruption of the People's Party, we see that you are in charge of Operation Zeta. Crespo SMS directed to Pachi Lucas: "I have to ask you to call Bea for course programming, which gives us a little more this year." Well, you could explain why you lied about this case, and you could explain what happened in a council so that two high offices, as I say, Martiña and Ana María Díaz, are charged and that the magistrate says today that the information and conclusions of the investigation are demolition; 55 defendants, two high offices, one active in her council. And speaking of corruption, you have to point out, speaking of the environment, too, that yesterday a government in function takes nothing more and nothing less than the decision to extend the grant of Cence to 2073. Shame and indignation, Counselor, Shame and indignation! You guys haven't stopped working for the company, you haven't stopped working for the company for many years, and there's not much to climb up. You have made an amendment to the Law of the Back, of protection of the coast, according to Ence. They opened the way with the support of the representatives of the German People's Party at the Congress of Deputies. Mr. Feijóo didn't say a word when he was taken from Galicia's board, this country, the last word to decide whether to stay or not from Ence. They gave in to the sovereignty of this country for such an important matter without saying or saying. And now still on top, it's worth it to save yourself from... Ah!, to me register, I have nothing to do with this. Right? You allowed, because you did not object, the amendment of the law that gave the last word to the Government of the State. They made a regulation from the Spanish Government – to measure too – saying that the environmental report to be issued by the Environment Council with regard to Ence had to comply with the previously approved environmental authorisation. Obviously, that was like saying it was already approved. Because if you have to comply with the conditions of an environmental authorisation that is already approved, because obviously in the environmental report it was already the result before the party played. And you also played the game when you anticipate it and leave the petate to a hypothetical next alternative government to the People's Party, as you also did with this country with AP-9 in Manuel Fraga's time. We can also talk about turning doors. Who's at the board of directors? Isabel Tocino, who was Minister of the Environment and who made decisions about Ence; Carlos del Alamo, Environmental Counsellor of the Board of Galicia; Pascual Fernández Martínez, who was Secretary of State of Waters and Coasts of the Government of Aznar with Jaume Matas, a also trusted man, an isolated case of corruption also in the People's Party. And it should also be pointed out that María José Echevarría, Deputy Director-General for Environmental Coordination of the Galician Union, who made decisions with regard to Ence and this integrated environmental authorization, is the wife of the director of the factory of Ence in Pontevedra, Antonio Casal; not to mention Fernando Abril Martorell or Pedro Barato Triguero. Shame on you! What do you call this, Counselor, what do you do with Ence? To miss his word, to his word given to the transfer, to violate decrees signed by Mr. Feijóo, such as the Coastal Management Plan and the Land Management Guidelines, to violate his electoral program once again, and to demonstrate once again his inability to give this country a different future than to spoil natural resources. Inability to create another economy other than simply extracting natural resources at cheap prices to take advantage of elsewhere in the added value. It's only good for that, and to charge the remaining commissions of these laws. Nothing more, nothing more, for a plate of lentils. He has also just been pronounced by the Prestige, after an act by the Government of the State, when the People's Party ruled, at the level of the legal process, regrettable; by filing civil lawsuits in the United States against ABS, losing it, not presenting itself to the arbitration process in London, also losing it. And, above all, the documentation provided in the United States is not accepted in the Provincial Court of the Crown, where it also comes out again as the only culprit of environmental crime – at least in this case it is still an improvement with respect to the Provincial Audience – the captain of the ship; no political officer, once again, as happens with Angrois, as happens with the subway in Valencia, always paying as an scapegoat a worker. You were talking about climate change, Counselor. Well, what you just said is the most absolute sample that up until now you haven't done anything, because what you're going to do in this first quarter is make a report to see what's going on with climate change. But, on the other hand, in matters that are transcendental, such as renewable energies, what we do with thermals, which are causing more than 30% of the greenhouse gas or the mobility model, you, up to now, these seven years, high-capacity highways, individual road transport, not encouraging the train within the country and favoring the continuity of the thermals and above all brake the renewables. Climate change, Counsellor, is not done with nice words, is done with determined measures to reduce greenhouse gases. And when 60 percent of transport and thermals are where priorities have to be set and they don't get dizzy. And as I think I don't have much time, I also wanted to tell you about the Law of the Land, Counselor, that you talked about a historic law for sustainability, about the landscape, etc., and didn't last or the presentation process, if you want to modify in the presentation process, in a way, once again, improvised and chauffeur, Counsellor. How is it possible that you, a matter as transcendent as the one you want to adopt now, to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u68	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u69	...amendment of the 144, present it out of time, and do you intend to make a call to consensus? The consensus, Counselor, is not imposed, the consensus is not imposed; in such a case, it happens with dialogue, and you did not want to dialogue. We have arguments, ideas and we have the will to dialogue to solve specific cases. But here there are no shortcuts, Counsellor, there are no shortcuts when you have just cancelled planning instruments for missing the public participation process, the last case in Barreiros, which is a constitutional right. How can they dodge...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u71	...this procedure knowing it'll be a problem in a few years! And you're trying to eliminate environmental processing when you know it's going to be cancelled in a few years. Because precisely the Vigo Municipal Management Plan is cancelled due to lack of strategic environmental assessment, to avoid it. So here are no shortcuts to make time and so in a few years we're again having an even more aggravated problem, and much less, to solve a specific problem, which we're in favour of solving, if these problems spread across the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u73	So I use it, whenever I wish, for you and the judicial advisers of the Galician Union, to have a meeting and exchange opinions and information, which the People's Party denied in the presentation. Mr. Bugallo said you could come with the legal advisers and the secretary general of Urbanism. And we talk, I'll always be willing for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u75	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Mr. Pontón Mondelo displays a poster on the rostrum of speakers.]] Mr. President, I wish you luck...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u76	Mrs Pontón, you're already a veteran and you know you can't hang anything in the gallery, can you? It's the regulation, you can't, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u77	The Rules of Procedure do not say anything about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u78	Yes, yes, you can't.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u79	The article, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u80	Mrs. Pontón, let's not complicate the matter. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u81	We are today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u82	No, no, I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, don't complicate me, besides, which today is my first day. Don't complicate this, you can't wear it. I'm begging you to take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u83	I think it's getting complicated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u84	I beg you to withdraw it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u85	...there's a lot of history of using this gallery freely. If you want to convert this debate and this gallery into a box closed to our demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u86	Look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry, I don't want to convert it. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u87	...I'm telling you that since BNG we're not changing anything, you're just proving...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u88	Mrs. Pontón, I'm sorry, sorry, the last time it happened, I warned Mrs. Churches, that you won't let me lie on this matter, and then I told you with a phone call. You are a Member who has been in Parliament for many years and knows that cannot be done. So, I beg you, and I ask you, in addition, to withdraw that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u89	I strongly ask you to apply the regulation, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u90	I'm applying the Rules of Procedure, because they say so, and then I ask you to withdraw that, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, but you can do it in your hand. You pick up. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u91	I'm asking you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u92	Mrs. Pontón, I don't want to complicate the day. Freedom of expression can be yours, Mrs. Pontón, anyway, but that can't be done. Then I beg you, please, to take that away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u93	I beg you to tell me which article of the regulation prevents me from illustrating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u94	This is always, for the rest of my life, it was in Parliament like this, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u95	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u96	Mrs. Pontón, please remove that, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u97	I will not withdraw a poster that is representing the dignity of a people in the face of democratic fraud...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u98	Well, I don't think that's the way it is. So we're not going to go on like this. I ask you to withdraw it; otherwise, we cannot follow the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u99	It's just that you haven't told me yet which article of the regulation you're applying to prevent me from freely using my intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u100	You never put this in Parliament's rostrum, and you know it. So I beg you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u101	As I say, you know it's the other way around. Please don't do this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u102	We can't keep arguing about this. If you want, we'll suspend the full one second and we'll talk about it yourself and me, but, please, I ask you to withdraw this.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u103	What I can tell you is, when I come to the gallery, the cartel goes with me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u104	I'm asking you to withdraw it, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u105	I, Mr President, don't see the problem, I don't see what the Rule of Procedure is, so I ask you, Mr President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u106	Don't make me don't let him talk. Don't make me, please. You take that away. I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u107	That's a decision that's in your hand, it's not in my hand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u108	But you don't force me to make that decision. I ask you to withdraw that, and I think that's what has always happened in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u109	The truth is, if you tell me what is the article of the Rules of Procedure where that prescription appears...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u110	This was not allowed in this Parliament's rostrum. So I'm asking you to pull him out. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, you don't get into this. Take that away, please, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u111	Of course, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u112	Take it back, Mrs. Pontón, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u113	Mr. President, I think if you want to remove it, you can remove it. In any case, what I can't afford is to deprive myself of the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u114	Please, services from the House, withdraw what's in the rostrum. Take it away, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u115	I believe that it is a decision, in any case, of the President who demonstrates how, indeed, in this Parliament, the truths hurt. And the People's Party can't stand the people being represented here saying what's going on. In any case, Counsellor, as it is not the first time that we have discussed, nor is it your first intervention, if I wanted to start by mentioning that it appears in a day that, indeed, is very interested in talking about the environment. Today we know that there is a review of this shameful judgment in relation to the Prestige, a revision which seems to us of very small scope, which touches only part of the procedure, which would open up possible compensations, but which in any case maintains impunity, the impunity of political leaders in connection with this catastrophe. And I can also say that it doesn't stop being a sarcasm that exactly a former member of the Fraga Government, who had responsibilities during that catastrophe, today, ends up being Environmental Counsellor. Of course, with this letter of presentation you have to understand that we consider it to be a genuine disproposition that you can be environmental advisor when you were part of that government that caused one of the greatest environmental catastrophes in our country. We believe that in any case his name should be in those who are judged at this time because he has eluded many of the responsibilities that they had to have and avoid the catastrophe that I assumed the Prestige. We also see how the creation of the Environmental Council does not respond to a change, a rotation, in the role of environmental policies. Now we know that there is a new economic concept, which is "the circular economy" -- we have passed from industry, from the 3.0 strategy, to the circular economy -- you are very good and very good in this case in using an absolutely empty terminology not to talk about the real problems. But we are very clear that in its appointment and in the re-establishment of the Environment Council it does not repeat a change in environmental policies. In any case, it is obvious that for some reason Mr. Núñez Feijóo cannot or did not wish to leave you at the last remodeling of the Government. We don't know very well what the reason is. But I was saying and you were talking about climate change, new politics, laughter, a whole series of words that many of them sound very good. But when we look at reality, what we see is how the People's Party maintains an economic model for Galicia that is incompatible with a sustainable model. And the best example is that we have in this vetoed cartel in this Parliament, in that cartel in which we are being told and if we are denouncing the real environmental and social assault on this country which is supposed to extend to Ence, an extension which we consider to be fraudulent, antidemocratic and contrary, Counsellor, to the general interest of the people, which is supposed to maintain for sixty years a mortgage for the river Pontevedra, maintain the contamination and therefore condition the future of the development of that river. So in the middle of debate, for example, about the Law of Aquaculture, where you're seeing how you want to privatize the sea and give our laughs to multinationals, you only have one exception, which is Pontevedra's laugh, which doesn't give it to the multinationals of aquaculture. They'll keep it in the hands of Ence; a position, Counselor, in which you have a direct responsibility; you, Mr. Feijóo and Mr. Rueda. Because you, as head of your council, evaluated a report that could continue on in the stream of Pontevedra. He did it knowing that this goes against not only Mr. Feijóo's election program in 2009, but also against land-based management instruments such as the Coastal Management Plan. And so you'll have to explain to us what role that kind of instrument has for you. And, above all, he did, disregarding that the Galician Union has jurisdiction over territorial management which is clearly invading the State, and are not acting on that ground. Of course, a fraud of all kinds, this is environmental fraud, it's social fraud and legal fraud. We also want to know, Counsellor, since the decision is not firm and there is a broad majority who is demanding that Ence leave the river of Pontevedra, if his Government will appeal against this decision. We'd like to know, because this decision is not yet firm and you still have the ability to amend. The BNG will be on the side of those who make it easier for Pontevedra's laugh to have a future, which is not hypothesized by a company that is polluting and creating a serious problem for the whole of the river and the whole of the country. We wait to see what his intention is, of course. Because, look, that decision has implications, not just for Pontevedra, but for the whole country. This decision not only consolidates a clearly colonial model that has been made for Galicia, designed by franchise, but consolidates a forest model that is clearly loosing the possibilities we have in that future, and consolidates a serious problem for Galicia, because you know what this forest model brings about in relation to forest fires, which are also a serious problem associated with climate change. Do you have any evaluation to do in this regard? I don't know, you're worried about this? Are you aware of what our country's eucalyptization implies as a response to the needs of a company that in addition to never even finished the productive cycle in Galicia, and which, therefore, is creating higher added value outside, while here leaves pollution? We would like to know what your opinion is because, indeed, behind this decision is not only the consolidation of a model, but also those rotational doors that cause the Government to be legislating according to the interests of a company and not according to the general interest; these rotational doors that make Isabel Tocino, who was Minister of Environment with Mr. Aznar; who was José Carlos del Alamo, who was, among other things, Environmental Adviser of the Galician Union; or also Pascual Fernández Martínez, Secretary of State of Waters and Coast of Government of Mr. Aznar. Therefore, Counsellor, it is clear that there are very dark links between Ence and PP, and also that all legal changes that have been made are made by committing a fraud of law in practice because it is legislated to the interest of a company and is not legislating to the extent of general interest. But this is something that you've got us used to, too, because it was said here that there is an ongoing operation in which there are members of your department, a judicial investigation, for a possible cause of corruption, in which you have an alleged CEO. And we would like to know, Counselor, if you don't believe that at a time when the People's Party says it gives you repugnantness – I think it was – corruption, if it seems normal to keep this person in charge. And I say it because I don't blame them, I don't blame them, in the judicial field they're going to stand up. But don't you think that keeping the Galician Union under suspicion of corruption at a time when there is such an important democratic crisis of credibility is to continue to focus on that rot within the administration itself? Don't you think it would be more normal, with regard to the citizens, that these kinds of cases were not blowing up the Galician Union and that, therefore, the judicial investigation was on the one hand and the problems that this creates in the Galician Union on the other? Don't you think it would be more decent cesala? I also ask you if you don't think it would be more important for you to clarify some kind of statement that we saw in the papers, in which the businessman himself was being investigated that Lucas – this gentleman who hasn't yet explained to us the People's Party what the link he has with Mr. Feijóo – left... I knew that he was pinned, and literally says, "He told me he was very sorry, but he couldn't warn me, and that it was why the Labour Counsellor" – that it was you – "and Feijóo, they set up everything to cancel the last courses and send the course to the prosecutor to save himself". I think these are statements that at least require an answer from you in this Parliament. We, of course, believe that they disable a very important part of their party and put all credibility on the ground.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u117	And I say only one last question: Land law. It is an absolutely unprotective law of our heritage and our territory, liberalizing. But the worst thing, Counselor, is that it's a law that's born telling us it's a law that's useless. You know why? Because they're going to have to reform her by following the path of the previous law. Why? Because that law is very important, and the fact that they can't give a solution to Vigo's problem demonstrates it. We made a proposal to solve that problem, and your group blocked it; your group blocked the modification of that article 144 and could introduce improvements to solve the problem that Vigo has. I think it would also be nice if you told us today why. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. And congratulations to Mr. President and Mrs. Vice-President for the election to their respective positions. Counsellor, you are the third advisor to the Feijóo Government who takes possession of his office. So we talked after seven years of government; it's not a government that just started its walk, but it's the third advisor of the same government. It coincides with its appearance – imaginatively not premeditated – with what we have just heard, which is the news of the extension of the grant of Cence for sixty years, from 2013 to 2073; that is, Ence will remain in the stream, at least, from June 1958 – on June 13 – until November 8, 2073 – 115 –. Justify, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is extending on the basis of supposed investments; they speak of 61 million euros to be invested. And this decision is taken, besides, Counsellor, by a government in function with the complicity of the Council of Galicia; the complicity manifested not only in the complicit silence, but also in the report issued by the general secretariat of this Council of Galicia, of its council, in favour of this concession. It highlights all of this the continued and repeated lies of the People's Party: you lied when in the 2009 electoral program you committed to move Ence out of the river; you lied when in this Parliament you voted motions to initiate management and studies to find formulas that allowed the transfer out of the river; and in this House you lied to your predecessor, Mr. Agustín Hernández, when we discussed here that the amendment of the Law of Back that suppressed the binding report of the Galician Union and replaced the term "linking" with "determinant" meant that Junta no longer had the last word and against all evidence underpinning our face that the Council of Galicia would have the last word. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this heap of lies, falsehoods and half-truths has been filled with this extension for sixty years. And the most serious thing is that this is done with nightlife, with alleviation, with concealment, with premeditation and with all the negative characteristics that can be attributed. We learn about the news from the press and why it makes the company public, not because it is publicized by the corresponding ministry, which hides information. It's because of an investment we all know that, at most, it must be amortised in twenty-five years, and it is justified by that an investment, an extension, of sixty years. What technology can resist today for sixty years? None. It's all a lie. What this highlights are two things: one: what interests do the People's Party and the People's Party really serve? And the second highlights something we have repeatedly said in this House: that the amendment of the Back Law was to solve the problems of Ence, Petronor, Repsol and some individuals, as was the case with Formentera. Formentera's has arranged because the Constitutional Court has annulled this scandalous provision of law, but Ence, Petronor and Repsol will be satisfied with their demands through a friend and friend government and by a law made to its extent. You spoke of surprising things, Counselor. Tell us that the fight against climate change is irrevocable. I'm telling you a paralysed plan since 2011, and you tell us, Counsellor, that they are going to draw up or that they are preparing a document to lay the foundations of Galicia's environmental strategy. Seven years later, the third advisor, and now we're on it! You tell us about responsible policy in waste management, but the facts deny your claims. Do you know how much they spend on household waste recycling in 2016? 400,000 euros. That's ridiculous. Do you know that the Sogama composting plant that is budgeted for 2016 is 468,000 euros? Do you realize what you told us you were going to...? No, 4 million in total, but for next year it's 468. But you said you were going to recycle 15,000 tons – I understand – that's what you said here. Do you know how much it goes to the dump? 300,000 tons each year. Or there's an error, which you might be able to nuance, because you have no time limit, but that's what you said. Inundable zone risk plan. Do you know what the mayors of the People's Party want to talk to? Let Galician waters clear the rivers a handful of time, because they're dedicated to collecting the canon from the water, collecting everything, but the rivers don't clean them, they're all unwashed. I'd appreciate it if, instead of plans and plans, they were really devoted to spending money on cleaning up the rivers. You know what's going on with the Environment in Galicia? It's not just the budget drop. You're talking about getting up a little bit like last year. But, look, in 2009 it was 295 million euros; in 2010, 243; in 2011, 192; in 2012, 136; and you assume now that it's going to have 119 by 2016. Well, less than half of what I had in 2010. That decreasing contribution is the one that measures the real interest of the People's Party. And you know what goes up? What's up. The Galician Board is increasingly collecting water canon, in terms of what Sogama has to pay for; by this year 2016 they budget 99 million euros. I'll put, to show you, a button, which will sound to you, is a topic of Santiago: the EDAR of Souto. I don't know if she's alone. I have here an agreement signed by his predecessor, Augustine Hernández, by the former mayor of Santiago de Compostela, by the previous mayor, who was Mr Curras, and, by the way, by a director general of the ministry who is now very famous, who is Mrs. Ardiles. In that plan it was said that in 2013 they would invest 797,000 euros for that debugger; in 2014, 13,495; and in 2015, 38 million. Do you know how much you invested today? Nothing. But the worst thing is that nothing has been invested, that this is evidence, is that this deputy – and this comes to the story of the transparency of what the vice president was talking about a couple of hours ago in this House – on November 6 asked for access to the only document that was prepared for that debugger, which is the preliminary draft that is in his council, and they spent the 30 working days without having access to that preliminary draft. On December 18 I repeat again by register, and we're January 26th and I still don't see that preliminary draft. I'd like to know, Counselor, that you have to hide and why you're hiding in your advice on this preliminary draft. I hope to see him. I'm also going to talk about land management, something I have to say. You have this year and dedicate 15 million euros –15,595,219 euros – to that matter; the most important matter, deserves 0.1% of the budget of the Union – there goes to Aplu and there goes everything. Look, it's not just that this budgetary-weighted ridiculousness clearly indicates the importance that it gives you, for example, that for the development of the territorial management guidelines – that a few days ago they filled their mouths by talking about it, since the year 2011 – there is not a single plan developed, either in development or in processing. And they budget for 2016 92,000 euros for that matter. I want to say something about the law of the ground, because something I have to say. The law that you present – as we have said in this House – is a cut, devalued, impoverished version of the Land Law that we currently have in force. He has no objective of protecting either the countryside or the landscape or the environment; none of that, in contrast, is protected. It has only one objective, or it has a couple goals: on the one hand, favoring the liberalisation of the ground again, taking steps back. Secondly, it establishes a measuring rod, which is two or three measuring rods; one, when it acts on the Board. The Galician Union, a simple processing procedure, 3 months to respond to all the documents presented to it. If it is a council that promotes, complex procedure, very long, and 15 days to solve the documents presented to it. And I'm not going to talk about the final approval...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u120	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u121	...by the big municipalities, of which, if I had time, I could talk. If I'm going to talk to you about Article 198 of the law currently in force, which you convert to 144 into the new law, deleting the second and fourth paragraphs. And now it will happen that a law has to be amended, which will be the first case before the law is passed. On February 9, we will discuss that law, and you will approve it because you have a majority. We'll repeat our argument. You're probably going to bring us an urgent change here, and we're even going to vote for it, because we have to solve the Vigo situation, but the Vigo situation, to some extent, believes it with the very modification of the law that we are currently undergoing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u122	It's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u123	In short, it's a real law of the embudsman. Counsellor, welcome to the discovery of the world, but the world has not begun – not environmental policy – when you appoint it as advisor, but it comes from a long time ago. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u124	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Freire.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u125	Thank you, President. Good morning, and I also want to wish you a great deal of success in this new responsibility, both for you and for the new vice president. I want to thank one of the speakers for their respectful intervention, especially bearing in mind that other voices or voices do not seem to care much about debate or this audience. Some vocabularies, advisors, don't even want to give him the benefit of the doubt; they give him competences that are not proper to his counsellor, that they are rather his own other administrations or even other administrations. It's probably because they weren't paying attention to their intervention or they're not interested. But, no doubt, you just put on the table major challenges to the future, and refusing to recognize many of the data you were giving here is just a matter of a lack of objective vision, and at least arbitrary, for not saying anything else. They will agree that, even if you do not share any of these proposals or initiatives, it is undeniable that the thrust work you are doing in recent months has taken on this new responsibility. Mrs Martínez spoke of the competences clearly of other advisers, such as mobility or the surrounding train; aspects which may not be part of this debate, and also possibly with a lack of rigour in some of her statements – I have said a lack of rigour for not saying anything else – especially when she makes certain statements about Mr Arias Cañete, leaving comments concerning at least non-existent imputations, and much less prosecutions, such as those mentioned here. It also seems that some voices link mud and mud to the environment, and what they're interested in is trying to melt. It must be by the presence of mud and mud in the joints, which is practically an element with presence in all those habitats. That probably reminds them of it, and it causes them to want to ruin the environment. Once again, they try to paint a totally catastrophic landscape, a landscape that I don't know if it's what they like, but that obviously doesn't fit Galician reality. I believe, Mr. Sánchez, that you are in time to change your posture. The law of the sun is processing. It's time to join together to reach solutions that have come and to solve problems, which in many cases are not the result of improvisation, but are the result of surviving circumstances that in certain situations it is not possible to foresee in advance. Mrs. Pontón, it really seems you were more concerned about discussing the cartel here... you lost an important part of your time discussing it. Of course, I don't doubt your ability as a parliamentary, highly proven, but you probably took the time to make some of those contributions to us would be more useful to all of you here and to those who listen to you. It also turns out a little rocky that remains anchored in what they consider to have been a result in the past. I'm talking about the Prestige case, which you referred to, and which once again try to include it in the debate. But, by focusing on some of the issues raised, the truth is that, related to a topic of the highest topicality as referred to here, the topic of Ence, the role of the Galician Union must be clear, and that in relation to the extension of Ence is strictly limited to ensuring compliance with the environmental parameters and that the Environment Council itself has sent the report requested by the Directorate-General for the Sustainability of the Coast and the Sea on Ence to the Ministry of Environment. It should be recalled that this report responds to a request made by the Ministry and referred to in Article 177 of the Coastal Regulation for the processing of the extension of the grant of the company Ence. And so, in this case, since the installation has an integrated environmental authorisation – which was indeed granted in April 2008 – the report is limited to determining compliance with its requirements, and in the document sent to the Ministry to Together, it was assessed that the plant Ence, in Pontevedra, meets the parameters regulated in the integrated environmental authorisation, which is currently in force. Therefore, this report, which is not decisive and which is not binding either, does not give a concrete opinion on it, but it is necessary to pretend that, in any case, the final decision on the extension of Ence corresponds only to the Ministry of the Environment, which followed the administrative procedure corresponding to this type of concession and evaluated all the parameters, complying with the applicable legislation. So we understand that the criticisms of the opposition to this extension are not understandable, since it is shown that the plant of Ence, in Lourizán, meets, at least, the environmental parameters and the emission indices established. And it's also true that you give the feeling that what they're trying to do is close a plant that, even if it meets all environmental requirements, would put at risk the 800 direct jobs with which Ence counts in the district of Pontevedra, and above all the 5,000 it generates throughout the entire Greek geography. I mean, today, the plant of Ence, in Pontevedra, meets the environmental requirements required. This does not mean, of course, a blank check for the company, but in order to continue its activity, it will have to continue strictly fulfilling the new demands of the European Union, which is supposed to be even more demanding in many respects than at present. In fact, before October 2018, Ence will have to undergo a new review and assessment of the conditions of its environmental authorisation, with the aim of verifying its adaptation to the environmental requirements required by the European Union for the production of paper and paperboard. Counselor, you referred to a series of ads. It's difficult in a single appearance to engulf such a volume of ads, but ads that, in addition, are accompanied by a budget commitment and economic support to materialize and carry them out. It's obvious that you've been taking initiatives in which you've been working for a long time in your counseling, but also a lot of news that brings your personal fingerprints and that we're sure that I'm a fruit of that work developed over the past few months. It sets ambitious targets for the future, but assumeable, especially if we count on the involvement of all sectors. And, as you said, working decisively to consolidate Galicia as a reference to consciousness and respect for the environment requires an involvement of the whole society, but it's also a challenge we have to overcome. You reported a series of master lines, a series of strategies, related to the Environmental Sustainability Strategy, with a new report on climate change in our community, with a new draft of the Galicia Industrial Waste Plan, with a guaranteed investment for the expansion of the Sogama environmental complex for more than 36 million euros, with a first flood risk management plan for the history of the Galicia-Costa hydrographic demarcation, equipped with a budget of EUR 67.8 million and an increase of EUR 47 million, with announcements as a new hydrological plan for demarcation, which will extend to 2021 and which includes an investment of EUR 423 million, and a new Galician soil law, which is now being discussed and which can be the culmination of the work for the management of the territory and the search for a responsible urbanism. As he also proposed the elaboration of the rules of the Land Law itself, or the drafting of the Autonomic Basic Plan. And he also made a series of announcements related to the draft of the Landscapes Catalogue, the first Landscape Atlas of our autonomy or the creation of the Greek Network of Natural Parks. All these investments and all these proposals that you have just announced clearly demonstrate the level of commitment and the level of involvement that you are having to develop these initiatives. A brief reference was also made to the performances in the Burgo River, and I have to say that from the Junta, and after the announcements made until now, we must evaluate or highlight the effort that the Government of the State is making to bring forward the draft dredging of the Burgo River. It is good that prudent and reasonable deadlines are established for all stakeholders, so that they can participate, so that this process is participatory and that a document is produced by collaboration and maximum participation and provides a real and appropriate response to the interests of those neighbours of Burgo. It is true that last December 11 was published in the BOE the beginning of the public exhibition process of the Burgo River Dredged Project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u127	...–Filled, president–, and then the Ministry of the Environment extended the deadline to make claims until July 21st and offer the parties more time to be able to study the project in depth, given its volume and complexity. For the Greek Government, sanitation and regeneration of the Burgo River represent a priority, as has already been announced on many occasions, and this is evidence of the planned investment of more than 100 million euros in actions already carried out which have focused directly on the improvement of the river, and in actions also planned for the pumping of the Temple, in Chamber, and for the storm tank of Santa Cruz, in Oleiros. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Freire. Replica. Counsellor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u129	Good afternoon again. After listening to the speeches of the parliamentary groups, I, who was a Member, was the fact that I am increasingly surprised, because I didn't know that when you had the honour of being elected by the people, besides collecting the minutes of the MP, you also approved the opposition to the judge, which is more or less what we just saw here in this Parliament, where two spokesmen in particular have just judged people, with names and surnames. And beyond being a judge – it seemed they were above the Supreme Court – they criticized judgments that are now published because they do not condemn whom they want to condemn. That, of course, does not belong to Parliament. So I will therefore try to try to answer those who spoke in this Parliament concerned about something we are talking about today, which is about the environment. And I'll start with one of the themes that actually appeared in this audience through the spokespersons, which has to do with Ence. Mrs. Pontón, at least what I can talk to you about is the political hypocrisy that shows your political formation, when it was you – no, you didn't; your political formation – with the Socialist Party, when they ruled, who in 2008 gave the environmental authorization to Ence. That's at least what happens to me is to call it a hypocrite, the least, because, if you wanted to, and being your training a political formation that had the responsibilities of government, can a government tell you that not to that authorization that was requested from you in 2008? [[Applause]] And if you can, why didn't you say so? Because he had in his hands what worries him so much, or at least what you say he cares so much. Of what there is no doubt, Mrs. Pontón – and being serious – is that the environmental demands that exist now in our community are becoming more and more demanding. You have to remember – because, indeed, we have been in politics for a long time now – that you and I are not the exact demands of the present fifteen years. And I'm also convinced that the environmental demands within fifteen years will not be the same as they are now. And administrations have to comply with these environmental assessments that every day, every year, are more demanding. Obviously, this was what this advisor did: neither speak positively nor grant nor anything at all, but say whether this environmental assessment – I repeat again, awarded in 2008 – is in line with the activities currently being developed in this company. And so that's what we answered from this council. As for Mrs Martínez's intervention – to try to respond to some of her concerns – Mrs Martínez, as for the Burgo River Sanitation Plan, in particular, where we have already invested 100 million euros, for this year 2016 we have almost finished everything that is the Sanitation Plan, the only remaining are the different spills that have now to control from the municipalities. And we have already committed investment of more than 3 million and a half euros, in particular, in a storm tank in Oleiros and in a pumping in Chamber. This closes the Sanitation Plan with the responsibility of the Galician Board, which does not remove the Council of the Crown, for example, now announces 60,000 euros of investments for the cleaning of these spills. He also asks about Arousa's laughs, Ferrol's laughs and Pontevedra's laughs. The Ferrol River will also have an investment of 7 million euros to virtually complete the sanitation planning that is the responsibility of this board. And even you're also talking about the planning of the sanitation of the Pontevedra stream; a sanitation plan that you're already committed to and where we're already about to adjudicate 1 million and a half euros just for your writing. Which does not mean that different investments will not be developed in the infrastructures of this river of Pontevedra. Different spokespersons also talked about the concern about cleaning up rivers in our community. There are two areas that are now working on the cleaning of rivers, not only for the conservation of their banks, but also for the prevention of floods, and also for the solution after every flood. We have commitments this year about 2 million euros, which is 1 million euros more than we had committed last year precisely to clean up and maintain one of our treasures, which are the rivers of Galicia. I will try to continue to advance this government's commitment to the environment and make this area a major area, not only because, in fact, there is a new adviser, which is the Environmental Council – where, Mr. Bugallo, in fact, I've been also in the Government for seven years, and now with these new responsibilities, that we are defining a strategy like this – but also because we are also defining the strategy of the Council of Galicia. Because indeed, the roadmaps are not unmovable, and we have to write the roadmap to ensure that sustainable future of our community. That is why we have not only the desire to have a roadmap but also, of course, to accompany it with the assumptions of the Galician Union; assumptions that in this case – and although it seems still hurts – grow, grow. It's 254 million euros, which means about 7 points more than the previous budget, and even 2.3 more than the average of the rest of the Councillors of Galicia. And where we have committed investments in Galician waters that generally grow by 16.7%; in nature conservation, by 26.5%; or even in the Secretariat of Environmental Quality and Assessment, which grows by 6.4%. And with this, I want to tell you that there's no better sign of the commitment than the creation of this council, and even also of the increase in our accounts. I'd like to re-value one of our treasures, which are always those protected areas. And it is that in Galicia we have 400,000 hectares protected, distributed in 97 areas of special protection and also in six natural parks and in a national park. These seven natural parks – as I told you – will work together, coordinatedly, to be a real network of natural parks, so that we have the opportunity to have a unique brand, a quality brand, and also to have the opportunity to boost natural tourism, perfectly compatible with its conservation. Within this area, I would also like to talk – and I want to highlight it – that we are now working on drafting a new policy framework for the protection of captive domestic and wild animals. We can't continue to tolerate animal abuse, which sometimes shows us the media. That's why we want to go beyond that commitment and go beyond doing what others do, which are just awareness campaigns. We're working on a legislative text that has to collect this will. And that's why one of the actions we're going to focus on in the coming months will be the elaboration of this new Act on the protection of domestic and wild animals in captivity. Soon, in the next few days, we'll be counting on the text to begin its processing and even to be exposed to allegations. And on the other hand, we are making the document – as I said before – of that commitment that will be the basis for the drafting of the strategy – I insist – necessary in all the actions of the Galician Union and which, as such, has to be a living element and has not done. We will also, of course, try to give you not only the necessary transversality but also the requirement that the Administration be an example in this model of society that we want to be sustainable. Acting strictly and in the long run will also bring great benefits to our community. This is what we want not only with this strategy but with the policies that I have now had the opportunity to explain in this House: to reduce, as far as possible, the generation of waste and, indeed, to enhance and increase the treatment capacity of Sogama's plant. We were talking about 15,000 tons, Mr Bugallo; indeed, 15,000 tons of compost, which is going to treat the new plant and in which it is committed an investment that will exit the tender and, therefore, the adjudication – and you will – of about 4 million euros – not 400,000–. Investment and bidding will be EUR 4 million. We will continue to make progress on what will be a new industrial waste plan, which, as I said, has been saying ten years ago, there has not been any industrial waste plan since 2005; that is, three legislations have passed practically, with different leaders in front of these legislations, and now there will be an industrial waste plan. And, of course, also a flood risk plan, which is the first one that exists; it is the first one we have in our community, where, beyond that investment of 2 million euros that I told you for this year for the cleaning of our rivers, we have the work done to identify which areas are those areas of potential risk. Of course, we are committed to the whole plan – which reaches up to 2021– 67.8 million euros. And we will move forward in that hydrological plan that will cover them, with the investment of the Galician Union of more than 400 million euros, the infrastructures that need the Ferrol River, the Arousa River, the Pontevedra River and the Burgo River, of course. And speaking of the Land Law – which was also a special mention of all parliamentary groups – the People's Parliamentary Group from the very first moment has been giving way to dialogue. But, of course, I have to give you the opportunity to dialogue, and if there is a group that boycotts that possibility of dialogue and at the same time calls for dialogue, that is probably absolutely incompatible. Of the two subjects that you have mentioned in this gallery, the truth is that we are willing to talk about them, but if you do not want to talk about them, we will, of course, have no chance to do so, both from the exhibition and, indeed, from the inclusion of the environmental sector report. In short, it's about being strict, it's about being efficient, it's about making our community a community not only good for our present but also about guaranteeing the future of future generations and therefore sustainable. In that endeavour there is the whole Government of the Council of Galicia and, in particular, this council. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u130	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u131	Thank you, President. Counsellor, if you say that we act as judges, the comparison is that the Greek Government acts as God because it no longer needs to consult lawyers or prosecutors. He makes decisions alone and, above all, he comes here saying that we are the others who are not willing to talk. Look, in the Land Law I believe there is already a willingness to dialogue to solve a specific problem that concerns us all and everyone, which is the problem of the city of Vigo; a problem that we do not cause by citizens but to which we now have to give an answer. But you can't give an answer under a single prism saying: either this or it's nothing. So, I think that within the commission that is leading the Law of the soil, of the presentation, we are all willing to talk and solve this problem, but not to hand in a blank check to the People's Party, because then we see what happens, we have experiences left over. Until such a fact that you've been asked to take part in the Council itself so that you can save links and debate a formula to the end, but you have all the haste of the world, you want to put it in the next round and you don't have time to debate something so important. Just by the way of the events you've spent and acting as gods you impose your religion on us, and that's really what's happening. Now you were talking about the storm tank that will be put in Oleiros to continue the Burgo Sanitation Plan. I hope it is not like all the storm tanks that have come to this Parliament for malfunctioning and deficiencies, as happens, for example, in Ferrol, where there is not even a separation between domestic, industrial and white waters. With which, it's much worse performance than almost not acting because, in the end, there's no such debugging and it's all propaganda again. But he didn't question me, either, whether Junta is acting to investigate the responsibilities of the malfunctioning of Ferrol EDAR. It also notes that for the Pontevedra River there is an investment, only for the drafting of the EUR 1 million Sanitation Plan; it is EUR 1 million that will be used to make a plan that will not serve, because the most polluting infrastructure in the Pontevedra River will remain in the Pontevedra River contaminating its own river. So they're gonna take our hair back. There's no justification for the extension of Ence. It's incompatible with the quality of life, it's incompatible with the environment, and it's incompatible with the recovery of shellfish in the river. It's a political indecency, and it's more political indecency to do as it was done. And you come here to talk about agreements. It is indecent that from Madrid a government which is giving its last sighs, which is dead, and a president who is no longer worth, who has neither the value of presenting himself, if it has the value of unilaterally imposing Galicia and Pontevedra similar animalized and similar disproposing from an environmental point of view. But he also said 800 jobs. You don't know how many jobs you have Ence; they go up when you're interested and, when you're not interested, they go down. But the truth is, Ence isn't creating wealth in the stream of Pontevedra for many years, that doesn't create jobs and that hasn't improved industry for anything or improved the quality of his work, or even bet on finishing the productive cycle of paper in Galicia. It's about the rivers, it's about the river cleaning. I asked him for the protection of the species of shoreline, which are ending; they are completely abandoning the rivers, so there are these floods.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u132	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u133	We must maintain – I will finish – the protection of space. And I want to make it clear to the end, too, that if it's true that I'm talking about things that have to do with the competition of other advisors, but the Environmental Council has to act, it can't happen, because Galicia's board transport plan is the individual vehicle. There's a lot to talk about, if we talk about climate change, if we talk about fighting air pollution. How does the Council have nothing to talk about? How come you have nothing to talk about the Land Law, the Heritage Law, the Ence, Sogama, the Forest Policy? It's all about the environment. And yet that doesn't seem to belong to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u135	I'm done. I agree that it is necessary to legislate to avoid animal abuse, which must be punished, but you should also avoid human abuse through cuts in health, education, access to energy or food. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u137	Now it turns out that the People's Party will tell us what we can talk about and what we can't talk about, Mr. Freire. Man, we just wouldn't be able to come here to say what we think we have to say. And, as far as we're concerned, what we're doing is you doing what you're doing, not who we denounce what they're doing, who we're telling what they're doing. If that's mud it's because it's because there's rotational doors, the one that's relevant to companies, the one that's using public funds to pick them up privately, etc. To denounce that a hard drive has been destroyed by the People's Party at Geneva headquarters is not sinking by those who say so. Whoever melts it is who destroys the evidence for justice. To sink is not to denounce that the reform of Genoa was made in black money. To sink is to make the reform of Genoa in black by a party that rules in the state and then demands any neighboring son to fulfill his obligations as a tenant. And to melt is not to denounce what you have let happen or have done at the Work Council with training aids, at Operation Zeta. What was a mud was the plot that did it with public money. That's what it's like to sink, what you're doing is to sink, and we have to report it and tell it. That's not sinking. Then we also talk here about things that don't have to do with the powers of this council, Mr. Freire. Man, are you going to make a plan to fight climate change without an integral approach? Or is it possible to fight climate change in the narrow competences of this council, Mr Freire? No, right? You can't fight climate change without talking about mobility, you can't talk about fighting climate change without talking about renewable energy and thermal energy. Or not, Mr. Freire? Or would you like to help us? I believe so, that it is true that your conception of the fight against climate change is that. Because we believe that to fight climate change and reduce energy dependence, we have to make a coherent country project, and that has to be an integral project. And that's the only way to do it. You don't, for you, it's how a subject would bring about climate change. That's why so far they haven't done anything, so far they haven't done anything, and in the first quarter there's going to be a report on climate change after seven years of government. That's the concern for climate change. Now that Obama even says that the economy needs to be decarbonized, you're going to give him a layer of makeup that they haven't done in these years. Look, as far as judges are concerned, Madam Counsellor, we don't do judges. No, no, look. It is that in the case of the Prestige there was an action by the Spanish State, when it was governed by the People's Party, in the judicial proceedings. And we're critical of this is the chapucier proceeding from the People's Party, who went to file a civil suit in the United States and lost, who didn't appear in the London arbitration process and who didn't provide the documentation that was in North America to the Provincial Audience, and that's how we stayed. That's what I criticise, just as I criticize the work of Mr. Mariano Rajoy when it was that accident, that of "one son of plasticline"; and all the very effective work of Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa, who has a very large employability. If he has employability, he will never be short of work for Mr. Arsenio Fernández de Mesa despite the lack of many qualities, Peter's principle. You don't listen to anything, Counselor, you don't listen to anything. What's Scottish is to have a government that doesn't respond to the demands of citizenship. Are you going to review the contracts made with the state company Aquaes and signed by Fernando Ramos de Armas, who just resigned as number three of Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría? And there was no court sentence, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u138	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u139	He's quitting, eh! It's diminutive. And that gentleman signed agreements here. Are you going to review, as Minister Tejerina announced in another isolated corruption case in the People's Party? And finally, in the Land Law, if there is no improvisation in your course, how is it possible that you have tabled the amendment of article 144 outside the deadline of the amendments? If that's not improvisation, what is it, Counselor? How is it possible that Alternative Left Galeg blocks...? And you ask me to admit that amendment when we have the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u141	...to consent first with you a procedure. What's the problem? You said you're willing to talk about public participation, you're willing to talk about environmental processing. What's the matter, Counselor? If we agree, let's do it, let's talk and propose a consensual solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u142	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, we will not turn Parliament into a trial, but I think you have a political obligation with this Parliament. And when his name appears in summaries, I think it makes sense that we can ask him about the political responsibility of possible criminal acts. I also think it makes sense that we can tell you that it doesn't seem ethically relevant to us that a person who is charged with a corrupt judicial process is part of your team. We believe, just as it was said here that they've done other charges on their party without any kind of judicial judgement, that these people don't have to be part of their office, and that we therefore have a cleanup in the Public Service. Because we believe that these kinds of issues are important regardless of what the outcome of a judicial process is, in which you also know that often things that are true do not end up being condemned for many reasons. So we have all the freedom to think in this Parliament about things that are public concern, or does corruption not seem to you to be a first-order public problem that needs to be answered? Well, we certainly think so. I don't know either Mr. Lucas or Mr. Crespo, I think you do and therefore it's normal to ask him what the public affairs managers are doing with public money. Whether they're using them properly or not is part of our obligations. And yours, Counselor, is to answer in this Parliament. I also want to tell you that here is the only hypocrisy of the People's Party. Hypocrisy, first, because you think you've presented yourselves to some elections saying that Ence was going to leave Pontevedra. I think you were part of those lists. So it's logical to ask what happens when a legal amendment is made to consolidate the Ence in the Pontevedra River. I believe, moreover, Counsellor, that you should know what the process of integrated environmental authorisations is. And he knows that this is a procedure that is solved in a general direction where there was no member of the BNG. And what I'd also like you to tell me is, if you disagree with that integrated environmental authorization, why you extended your government in 2011. Tell me, Counselor. We have a very calm conscience. I think those who eat in the Ence manger are in the ranks of the People's Party. I gave him some names and I think there are many more that could be given, Counselor. So don't come here to circumvent your responsibilities. [[Applause]] Why did the Galician Union issue a report favourable to the continuity of Ence in the Pontevedra River? Why did the People's Party make a legal amendment in accordance with the interests of that board of directors? Does that sound ethical to you? Does it seem ethical to you that a government in function mortgages Pontevedra's creek and the entire forest policy of this country? Do you think that's a democratic, fair, equitable way of proceeding? I think Mr. Feijóo has said on one occasion that he is not in favour of ruling in function making transcendent decisions. How do you think a government, when it lost its elections, intends to perpetuate a cascade like that of Cence in Pontevedra? These are important issues for the future of this country. You do not come here to tell us that what is being said outside of this Parliament cannot be spoken of. Because today everyone's worried that the Ence will be consolidated in Pontevedra. And the advisor comes here to tell us no, that we can't talk about it, that we have to talk about climate change. And I wonder: won't you have much to see in politics, at the bottom of politics, which is leading to an environmental and social disaster in this country? And look, one last question: the law of the ground. I asked you a very clear question. Why did the PP veto the possibility that an amendment would be included, which would collect what is currently in force in the Land Law, to give a solution to Vigo's problem? I think your duty is to answer and not come here with a pre-established script and did and not say anything at all. Look, the Land Law is a disaster, it's going to cause a lot more trouble.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u144	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u145	And it consolidates a model that is lethal to the territory. Counsellor, if you had any sense of political responsibility, what you'd do would be remove that bill, because you know it's worse than the law we have in force, and do what I'm saying. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, again. Well, Mr. Abeijón and Mrs. Counselor, there's something I have to tell you. Here we discussed the State Back Law, and we discussed it during the entire election campaign in 2011, especially the municipalities. And the representatives of the People's Party were tired of saying that this amendment of the law that was driving the People's Party had as its object to solve the situation of the coastal nuclei of Galicia. Mr. Abeijón, is it solved or by Walls, or by Noia? Is it or two nuclei resolved? Not at all. What's solved? The one from Ence, the one from Repsol, the one from Petronor in Bilbao, that's settled. So we said it from the very first moment: the goal of the law was to remove powers from autonomous communities to solve those issues that from the point of view of the State Government were understood to be matters of general interest and they did not want to be left in the hands of the autonomous communities. And he lied to us and all the citizens of Galicia repeatedly on this subject. She said the counselor, and she said well, but she doesn't apply it, that every fifteen years the environmental demands change. Fifteen years ago it was one and within fifteen years it will be another. Didn't he say that? And within fifteen, others, and after fifteen, and others, until they reach sixty. But the authorization is for sixty years, and even if the demands change, Ence will continue there under the same conditions. And that's not justified by investment, because investment has to be amortized in ten, fifteen, twenty or twenty-five years at most. And an investment, if it's not profitable at that time, it's no longer investment, it's something else, it's losses and profits, which is where to take it. I was talking to Mrs. Counsellor of the two million euros that she's going to use her board to clean up the rivers of Galicia. That's good! Congratulations. How much do you play by river or mile? And that doesn't contrast with the 22 million euros you're going to charge for the canon and the water? I think with two million euros you won't clean up the rivers of Galicia. They'll clear some, some friends, I suppose; but not the rivers of Galicia. Protected areas. Do you know that they lift the protection of oak trees and that they can be cut off and that they will no longer be protected in the new Land Law unless they are included in a catalogue that does not exist? What happened to the carpenter who disappeared next to Santiago, next to the Way of Santiago, with the authorization of the Council – I suppose it would be from agriculture, not from his own –? What about the preliminary draft of EDAR de Santiago, Counselor? Will you be able to see him or will you keep him hidden? Is it a state secret? Why can't you see that project? Sogama, Counselor. You said the same thing I said: 15,000 tons for compost. But how much do you see in Areosa every year? 300,000 tons. And with 15,000, with that, do we fix it? It's 300,000 people who are being seen in the dump, or something's wrong or there we're still going to have a problem. I was talking about this year's 468,000, not the total amount of the investment. The fight against climate change. Well, you went to Paris at the top, you went to Paris, and Paris always deserves a trip and a Mass, they said. But with climate change, what do we do? Are we going to start doing the projects now to define what we have to do against climate change? After seven years, is that the point, Counselor, what are we at? Is that the point we're at? You from the ground, opportunity for dialogue. Look, in the Land Law I think we've been working around and we've been working positively in the presentation, with a very good climate and trying to cooperate. But there's something that has no solution, the People's Party is totally inaccessible to the possibility to pose and accept changes in that element which is the trunk element of its proposal, which is justly the lack of protection from the rural environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u148	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u149	...the withdrawal of requirement for certain urban planning of supplies in minimum equipment. There's a total negative from the People's Party, and there's your representative's reply: no, this, no, this, no, this can't be... Do you know what the final conclusion is? This is a government of survival and they try to turn us into a country of survivors, into a Galicia that is becoming more and more into a mining country; you left him as an advisor, with 940,000 employees and nearly a million people, almost a million people, who have to live on benefits, unemployment insurance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u150	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u151	...or pensions. So there's not even one contributor, one contributor, for every perceiver. That's the country that leaves us, and you want to make us a country in the image and likeness of the People's Party. You will have to survive in the Government and want the whole of the Greeks to be content with your survival in the Government. I hope that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u152	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Freire Abeijón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u153	Thank you, President. After listening to most of the interventions, it is clear that the environment today is not the priority for any of the speakers. Other times, yes, we have to admit it, but today it seems that they are more interested or interested in parallel issues. And in the case of Mr Sánchez, particularly incisive today, I would say that there is some question about the financing from third countries of some political training, especially all funding from Iran, Venezuela and others, to contrast and complement the information he has given us here today. I tell you, in general terms, Mr Bugallo, that, although we coincided with some of your appreciations, the fact is that you cannot question that the improvements proposed for Sogama, the planned enlargements, the proposed composting plant, as they can contribute to correcting some of these deficiencies or some of those deficits, and above all contribute to diminishing that waste through the dump. The truth is that you referred to the traditional nuclei, to certain traditional nuclei on the coast, which, although we all wish the situation of many more to be regularized, the measures were crafted. And many times, if it wasn't possible until now, because it was also due to lack of involvement from the municipal administrations themselves. And there's still a margin to correct the situation of many of them. It's not just a question that if you want to make clear here that the only objective was the "Ence" but that what was meant was to regularize the situation of many other nuclei as well, and from there on, because perhaps that scarce involvement of some municipalities has made them not to be regularized at the moment more than they are at present. Well, Counsellor, it is clear that your commitment in this appearance is to plasma in those 254 million euros that this year will invest the Environmental Council, a figure that means, as you said, an increase of about 7 points over the budgeting of the previous year and which covers, apart from the aspects already killed in the first intervention, another series of areas that you announced in this second intervention, mainly related to investments for Galician Waters, whose budget increases by 16.7 % to reach the 100 million euros, or the own investment planned through the Directorate-General for Conservation of Nature, with these 26.2 million euros, which means an increase of more than 25% over last year's fiscal year. And, as well as not, it is necessary to highlight the investments planned by the General Secretariat of Environmental Quality and Assessment, with these 19.4 million euros that clearly refer to that will that which you referred to in your intervention. Therefore, we believe that these are very important announcements, announcements that will significantly change the future of our community in the environment, with fundamental approaches, such as the creation of the Gaga de Parques Naturales Network, which covers and the possibility of such coordination of the seven natural parks of our community managed together and establishing a series of synergies that favor all of them. Here was also a reference by some voicer to actions aimed at eliminating invasive species in some rivers or in some borders. The fact is that investments are envisaged, according to the advisor, of more than 200,000 euros in actions directed towards the eradication of these invasive species and the development of a catalogue of these species to try to act and correct, and even predict, the deployment of these invasive species. It is also news that we should welcome this announcement that we have just made by the advisor on the improvement of the regulatory framework for captive domestic and wild animals, announcing the development of a new legislative text that collects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u154	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u155	...that will and bearing in mind that it is an increasing demand on the part of our society; especially as a result of this increase in sensitivity and awareness campaigns. We are therefore pleased with this announcement. And I finish by saying that the soil law document has a very busy normative text. It was a very consensual law, more than 80 percent of the allegations proposed were accepted, 75 different agents were heard from the territory, more than 300 amendments were being addressed by the various groups. Everyone is working on finding consensus and agreements to get a proper document, and the debate – I repeat once again – is still open. The People's Parliamentary Group has accepted many of the amendments, it is trading others, we are still in time to reach agreements, to continue working in consensus around the Land Law. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Freire Abeijón. Shut up. Environmental Adviser and Territory Planning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u157	Good afternoon. I will try to begin the last intervention related to this appearance by calling once again for that necessary consensus that should exist in the debate of an amendment, which is the amendment on Article 144 of the Land Law. This isn't about any improvisation. Obviously the demolition of the Supreme Court's ruling on the Vigo General Plan is something that has been seen since Galician Union as the most worrying. The Galician Union is with Vigo and to effectively solve Vigo's projects of interest. And I'm asking for political formations that are also defending Vigo's interests, because these public administration projects that, in addition to being of general and urgent interest, touched Vigo's city might be that they also touch any other city in the future and therefore this solution will be a general solution. I appeal to that common sense and, above all, to defend the interests of the main city of our community, which is the city of Vigo. In everything that has to do with the processing of Ence, Mrs Pontón, because, as you can actually verify, authorizations are being processed, the authorizations approve them by the Bipartite. There seemed to be two governments, because you say that your political formation had no idea of Ence's authorization, that this is a realization of what bipartisanism means every time he reaches the Government. Then you say that there is a further authorization, and it also goes ahead that in 2018, whoever is in the Government will also have to make an authorization or not, according to the new requirements which, once again, Community directives are making in environmental matters. And, as I say, these authorizations come solely and exclusively to recognize the conformity of what is written with the requirements of the Community directive. And if his political formation, when he was in the Government, indeed, he was unable to brake him, for of course, from the Council of Galicia we will do so with the same rigour. From this government what I can assure you is that you are on the side of the workers, this government is on the side of employment, and this government is on the side of the sustainable future of our community, which is going to be a continuous work, which is not a prompt work. Because ever since, for a long time, humans used the resources offered by nature to try to think that all of them, those from the sea, those from the earth, were infinite. And it has been found that this is not the case and that, therefore, we have to make policies that are responsible and that are also in line with all directives, I insist, every day more demanding, that we are dealing with everything that has to do with climate change, with the preservation of our nature and with the impulse of the circular economy, and above all by enabling all of them not only our present, but also our future. With that rigour, roadmaps were planted where they had never been before, because obviously those who had the opportunity to rule did not make any environmental strategy, which is what is, at least, striking. And when we talk about a climate change diagnostic report, that's the second one. This is not the first time we've been working since this government on the situations and impacts of measures that from society as a whole and from administration directly affect CO2 emissions to the atmosphere. But this is the second that makes this government. Neither did any previous government, nor did any previous government make an industrial waste plan; even they had the opportunity to do so, but they did not. The previous one ended in 2005 and so do we now want to move on. As they have not made a clear bet for improvement in urban waste management until they try to achieve the treatment of all urban waste that now reaches the Sogama plant. And, of course, we have to bet on our coves, for everything that has to do with the hydrological plan of the Galicia-coste demarcation, where more than commitment we have to have a committed investment for these important laughs of our community, as is Pontevedra's laugh, as is Ferrol's laugh, as is Burgo's laugh and even the Arousa's laugh. Or that flood risk management plan, which is also approved for the first time by this Government of Galicia and ratified by the Council of Ministers. And even, of course, that new law that will be one more step in the commitment of the Government of the Council of Galicia, beyond the Land Management Guidelines, which were approved by this government, beyond the POL, of the Coastal Management Plan, which was also approved by this Government, and now this new law, in which, of course, that capacity for dialogue is fully established when we were able to accept about 25% of the allegations made. I believe that the fact that the People's Group in this debate has accepted about 25% of the amendments tabled by the various political formations clearly shows not only that we are able to dialogue but also to reach consensus. And I appeal once again to common sense and above all to responsibility for the city of Vigo, especially with projects of such important interest to Vigo and to Galicia as they are now debating through this amendment. And, of course, speaking of nature must also be a fundamental pillar of this council, and it will be with that unique figure that there will be of the Gaga Network of Natural Parks, and even with that new law that also seeks to improve the protection of domestic and captive animals, which will provide our community with a regulation, beyond being modern, which will collect the will in this case of this government and that it will collect the will of all the ecologicalists and animal-protective associations that can contribute to their drafting. In waste management, in land management, in supply, sanitation, ultimately, Galicia is a conscious community, it is a community respectful of the environment, it is a community that is also committed – and so demonstrated at the top of the past in Paris – to climate change. And obviously he wants to be a sustainable community too in all matters, and that's why every day he works the whole Government of Galicia – not just this council – and that's why we also want to develop not only our cities economically but also develop and protect our rural environment. I think we have an important challenge, some important challenges, but above all we also have many opportunities, opportunities that I am convinced that, if we work them together, they will be much bigger for our community. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u158	Thank you, Counselor. Amendment of the agenda of the debate in the plenary meeting
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u159	Before I suspend the session until the afternoon, I inform you of a change in the agenda, which I transferred yesterday to the spokespersons and the interested party, which is that the interpellation that appears in third place, the questioning on the consequences of the current state and autonomic systems of scholarships for university students, will be substanceed when discussing the third non-legislative proposal this afternoon. He's talking to everyone. We suspended the session until 5:00 p.m. [[The session is suspended at three and fifty-two minutes in the afternoon and resumed at five and two minutes in the afternoon.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to the dairy sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u160	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr. García has the floor to present the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u161	Thank you, President. Well, let's get one more motion about the dairy sector. There are numerous motions on problems in this sector that brought this group and the other opposition groups to this Parliament; that is, because of lack of attempts it was not. And if we take a brief look at these initiatives – I had these Christmas occasions to do – we would come to or should come to a conclusion, which is that the measures that had been envisaged there for three years, if they had been put into practice and if they had been carried out, would certainly have been, from our point of view, very effective in the face of the difficulties that we were faced. And as we have said here too on many occasions, they were very announced difficulties and very easily predictable; although they were not desirable, they were indeed predictable. It is true that we always count on the irreversible wall of the Government and the People's Party, a wall that has never been protected from another kind of policy, another political alternative, which could be completely legitimate, but rather defence of that inaction, of that passivity and of that total absence of political action in which this sector, as in many other sectors, refers. It is true that this inaction was not and is not innocent, nor is it irrelevant, as it proved to be tremendously damaging to this sector. It might be less important or less relevant at other times. It's true that this sector is a very dynamic sector, a sector that has always been under a lot of pressure, a lot of difficulty, a lot of regulation, but it's also true that right now, and two years down here, it's been these last years when more needed a government and an administration that was as an accomplice and as an ally in the tremendous moments that you're living. We asked the advisor in December for that first balance sheet of the agreement signed in Madrid in September. Well, when we say we ask him, I say it repetitively and formally, since I think all of us here are very used to asking without ever getting any answers; so we do it rhetorically. And so did they rhetorically because in practice, in fact, the balance of that agreement was quite palpable as to the data we already had. Of course, that's right, we agreed on the first thing I said to him and asked the advisor. If we agreed on what was the object or what was the main objective of that agreement, that in theory and from our point of view, I don't know if the price of all of them was to rise to the producers, i.e. that the original price paid to the producer had an increase. And yet what we had two months and then peak was that the price itself had risen a penny, it was around 27 cents. And I also referred to that similarity that in its moments there was, both at the signing of the agreement and at the moment... even here the President of the Galician Council and the Council itself said that this agreement was better than it had been signed in France. I told him that there was a small difference, that the one in France had met the goal; that is, the French gloves had achieved what was reflected in that agreement, that the milk had risen from there to December around the 34 cents, and here we followed 27 cents. So I wish it were better here, but, as we said, it wasn't that it was worse, it was that I had absolutely nothing to see. And the novelty, if there's anything new, which is always because of the facts and events, that is, we have a completely inactive government on this subject, totally waiting for this problem to be solved, I don't know whether by divine inspiration or by some sort of confluence of external elements, but since that month of December we've been questioning the advisor, because the news we have is not hopeful at all, but rather the opposite. I told him, in his first appearance as counsellor, that he was a counselor who had to be aware of the circumstances in which they had named him, that they had named him because things were not right, and that he had a small margin of action, both for the political moment he had touched him and for the time he was left of legislation, and that therefore he could not expect great achievements or great changes. I regret tremendously those words that I said to you, because I think that same day the counselor was opened up to the heavens and said, "Well the less we do, the better, because, overall, how the times are actually going to be complex, how actually the height of the legislation is what it is, and how actually I already have the budgets made and I don't have much room for manoeuvre, so why should we waste too much time on doing something? And it also affected and we've touched on what I think is a diagnosis of the situation, it's just reading reality, reading the data and reading the situation in which we find ourselves, in this pressing need to have a strategy as to how the national market, as to the state market, and whether that strategy was or is led by Galicia. Totally predictable, and totally undesirable, as it is not desirable, but fully predictable, the situation that we have already begun to glimpse towards spring, which is an increase in the difficulty to even have again in this country lack of milk collection; that is, if the forecasts and governments do not act, from March to April we will again have milk without collecting in Galicia, and we will again have those difficulties, in which we will no longer talk at all at a price but that milk may be collected. It's easy to come to that conclusion, and there's no need for a lot of analysis either. Our production, as we have already shown here, is almost entirely devoted to fresh milk, or to white-labeled milk, that's what we have. We produce 40% of state milk, our industry represents only 10%, and it transforms only 25% of the milk we produce. And so I always put here the example that all the designations of origin of cheese we have in Galicia because they're 2% of our milk, i.e. practically residual. So, with the international scenario that we have, with the persistence of the Russian veto, with the fall of consumption, with those alleged importing markets, which were the ones that we liberalized the market and which would be dedicated to importing European milk, in free decline and with an intervention price of 21 cents, because the international scenario will not come to us. That's what we wanted to tell the advisor, internationally there will be no improvement, but rather all the opposite. And with the state market, which is what we basically live from, also with a fall in consumption of 3%, or a little more than 3%, especially in liquid milk, which is what we're dedicated to, well, because by that way there seems to be no recovery either. And with an increase in production in Galicia by 3%, when we were talking here -- and how many times we were told that we were crazy -- about the relocation of milk production, which we see in Galicia increased by 3%, while in communities like Castilla-La Mancha or Andalusia are at a 15% increase in milk production only in the last year. I mean, if there are no policies that favour and protect the sector, milk production will end up moving from Galicia as well. There is no divine mandate, nor is it collected in any European treaty, nor is it collected in any law, let us say, human or divine, that there must be milk producers here; therefore, if the administrations, governments, the Council of Galicia, the President of the Council of Galicia, take no action on the matter, and do not start to take up and reverse that situation, I repeat that nowhere is it written that we have to produce milk here. And if we were talking about, and we've already talked about here, about the weakness of our industry, and we gave that data that between 2012 and 2014 across Europe invested nothing less than €5.500 million in improving and expanding the dairy industry, of these €5.500 million, in Spain only €165 million – a 3% – was invested; and from that €165, in Galicia invested zero. And if everyone seems to accept – I think less this government – that, once the market is deregulated as to the production and disappearance of the quota system, what we would have to do is go regularizing the market via industry, and here we have zero euros invested in it, well, because the situation is not much better. This initiative, this motion resulting from this interpellation, are initiatives that I believe ultimately, as it was said of the commandments, are summed up in two, which is that this Government, basically, once and for all...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u162	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u163	...start this political action and be able to lead it at the state level. This is done by many things, essentially, for example, by urging the Ministry to comply with that part which remained undeveloped from the rules of that agreement. So far the excuse is that the Government is in operation. Home!, I understand that yesterday you solved the issue of Ence... it seems to me that it is much more dangerous or more difficult, or has more complicated, to solve the issue of Ence than to take out decrees that are consensual and agreed on in an agreement, and signed by the minister in functions; therefore, I do not know where is the difficulty so that these decrees continue in the drawer, with a government that is also superaccustomed – and we hope that it is already the last one – to rule by decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u164	Thank you, Mr. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u165	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The motion presented today by the Socialist Party is one of the many initiatives to support the Greek milk sector that have been presented in this House, updated to the circumstances of the almost null effects of the agreement signed by a part of the representation of the sector and the Ministry of Agriculture. That bitter agreement of 23 September last year was presented by the Ministry and the People's Party as the panacea that would give stability to the sector, taking it out of the crisis that could no longer deny in the face of the mobilizations of the sector, massive, continued mobilizations, and, what was most of the concern to the PP, supported by most of the Galician society, who with more discretion than the Government of the Union and Madrid perceive milk and all the rural as strategic sectors for Galicia. Then, in September 2015, the voices that denounced that the agreement would not end with the prices of ruin for milk, because it did not establish mechanisms to force industry and distribution to comply with it, were silenced by the propaganda of the People's Party, which was already in the electoral campaign and the desperate tried to propaganda reduce the electoral battalion that was finally confirmed on December 20. Let me say at first that this Socialist Party motion is one more initiative, it doesn't mean at all that it considers it to be of little importance. What I want to express with this statement is that all initiatives, however reasonable and necessary they are, are always fighting against the majority mechanics of the People's Party that still maintains in this House. That is, if, instead of dealing with the common people, the greedy and the greedy people, we've been talking about the problems of the electricity, the bank, the builders or the businesses of friends and friends of the People's Party, surely the PP governments would be more agile and diligent to transfer public funds to them out of the way. And that is what the agriculture minister, Mr. Cañete's pupil, who is being investigated for Aquamed's fraud and the million-dollar overprices in euros paid to companies like Acciona or FCC. Only the known priced so far in favour of FCC would come to make two or three milk groups like the ones Galicia needs so that the milk produced here does not follow the mercy of an industry, a distribution, which imposes real ruin prices. But if one remembers the dairy feed fiasco, it's almost best that this illegitimate board is still, because they have no courage to postpone elections, as has been repeatedly asked by Mr Feijóo on the occasion of the countless cases of corruption we've known in recent years. And I say that the Union is illegitimate because, even though its government was originally democratically elected, the exercise of government in favor of powerful and friendly people, corruption involving the People's Party and anti-social policies that it has long practiced has dissected it. That is why, because the People's Party is still a government, it is why I particularly support point 4 of the Socialist Party's motion, which calls for an agreement with the sector to draw up a strategic plan that brings about an improvement in the territorial base of farms and an industrialization plan to be able to develop products that generate greater added value. I especially support this point because only with a strategic plan is possible the viability of the sector over time and the production of quality foods that leave most of the value added in the Greek economy. The other measures proposed in the motion are also supported because most of them are required by the urgency of an agonized sector that in a few months may suffer a lot of damage. On the part of the People's Party, almost certainly it will be said that everything is being done, because the rules of the European Union prevent more means from intervening because it would undermine competition. They will say that the problem of milk is a problem of surpluses that are also suffering from other countries of the European Union. What they won't say is that the current surpluses have something to do with the closure of the Russian market as a result of the economic sanctions imposed by the United States on the impoverished trade in the European Union's states. Nor will they say that the dairy fiasco, with the delivery of more than 10 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u166	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u167	...–Friendly, president– to the friends of the People's Party, in the best of cases, being very indulgent, it could be said that they were handed over to the incapacities. They won't talk either of the need for a Greek milk group, and much less of the food sovereignty, which seems to them to be uncanny, even if food sovereignty is the guide to the agricultural policy of the countries that usually take as an example the People's Party: Germany or France. For that and other reasons that I have already raised in this plenary session, I will give my support to this Socialist Party initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u169	Good afternoon. We support this motion, although we believe it is already too late for the Government of the United States and for the Government of the State to provide a solution to this sector. It's been many years ruling and not explaining a will or a ability – or both – to face a plan, a project, to give the dairy sector a future, in addition to a sector that supports the rural economy. The agreement reached at the end of September by the Ministry of Agriculture is one more success for both the Union and the People's Party. Four months later, prices remain the same, and the only minimal improvements that can be achieved are uniquely and exclusively thanks to the mobilisations of the livestock, who are doing what the Government of Galicia does not do. Even Mr. Feijóo had the defamation of, in reply to a spokesperson from a parliamentary group, saying that the rise that transferred some distributor to the owners was the merit of the Board, which began processing some sanctioning file to the distributors. There's no need to be any shame! Despite the fact that you've already been used to this type of statement, Mr. Feijó still continues to surprise us. There's no need to be any shame! If there's such sanctioning files, they're contributing them, they're making them public. See when we see the first fine to a large surface for selling losses or using milk as a claim product; as they have already done Cantabria, Murcia or Portugal in previous years. That we know, not a single one; that's the will to keep an eye on Galicia's board of distribution. Key issue is also this – product loss sales – for the survival of gainful holdings. Prices remain the same and farms continue to close, they close farms daily. And they close daily farms in Galicia that would not close in other parts of the state or in other countries of Europe with other governments and with other policies. That's the big drama. They don't shut down because the yellow thugs do worse things than the European thugs. They close because the governments of the yellow gainers make things worse than the other European governments, for example, the French Government. That's why they close, and that's the big drama. The measures announced in that agreement were already, they are fearsome, poorly decided measures that do not change anything in substance or change anything in depth; but they were already in previous legislation. And there is another path that the People's Party is never able to move, which is the execution of regulations, the execution of legislation, the execution of decrees. You have to run what is published in the DOG and what is published in the BOE. That's not done either. And then you don't do what's a strategy either. To the Government of Galician Union, if you ask what is the strategy of the Galician Union for the industrialization of the Welsh dairy sector, they start babbling. There is no strategy to transform liquid milk into products with added value, either with a great initiative or with a model based on small initiatives, in demand control, etc. There is no strategy because it is not explicitly stated. On the other hand, we also believe that short-term measures must be taken to stop the indentation. Data on the abandonment of holdings in the last seven years are discouraging. Short-term measures must be taken to increase surveillance and transparency in the marketing chain, which is what is said but never done; we don't know why, but never done. In the short term, ensuring a price that covers costs to stop the indentation, and in the medium and long term a country strategy must be made. And you can't keep betting, as the People's Party put it, for models that are harmful to Galicia. You can't go to Galicia to the negotiations of the common agricultural policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u170	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u171	...posting for a liquid milk production model to export at low prices. That's not the model that favors Galicia, and you've always bet on that model. Galicia has to go to another model: production based on land, production of quality products, supply control and quality control of products. That's the model that suits Galicia, because the model that suits Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u172	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u173	...–and it's over– is the model where farms survive, not the model we're going to, which is that 2,000-3,000 farms at most survive, which would mean even more desertification in rural areas. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u174	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u175	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, it is a pity that the Counsellor for the Rural Environment is not present in this debate, because she will then say – as she has already said on some occasion, not on this, but on the previous – that the opposition groups do not put forward proposals. Indeed, Mr. García seems to have taken the job of looking at all that we presented – no, he didn't say how many were, I thank him because I didn't take that job – and it's infinite almost the proposals we've made over the last three years and always clash with the People's Party and the Government of Galicia's Union. But I believe that today's situation in the dairy sector in Galicia is finding and confirming that, indeed, the agreement signed on 23 September in Madrid, sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, was a real failure. I'll give you three or four data to corroborate this fact. Today in Hypercor you can buy milk at 0.39 centimetre. In that agreement, there was a commitment among the signatories, including Hypercor, not to continue trivializing milk and not to use selling prices in the distribution that were genuine business dumping. Second. The prices of the milk originally in Galicia rose by an irrelevant amount, 1 cent from September to this day. We're still under 30 cents, we're still under 34 cents, which INLAC itself indicates is what it costs to produce a liter of milk in Galicia. The administration was unable to comply with the part that corresponded to that agreement. It's not yet the milk transfer pricing decree; on the other hand, as it is, we don't think it's going to solve much. The Order of First Buyers is still a very incipient draft and, of course, in Galicia it would be very relevant for proper regulation of the issue of First Buyers. And finally, the standard contract that circulates there and which intends to approve the Administration does not take any of the premises that producers were asking to ensure that they actually had some kind of negotiating capacity and that the contract's signature was some kind of guarantee for the owners. So we can say that instead of a type contract, you can start calling it a garbage contract. But with regard to Galicia there is another worrying fact, and it is that while throughout Europe and throughout the Spanish state, milk deliveries are increasing in a vertiginous way, since 15% of Ireland or some communities in the Spanish state, Galicia is rising by 3%. I've asked here once, I don't understand anything about economics, and I strongly ask someone to explain to me how one can understand, from the point of view of the dynamics and the functioning of markets, which precisely in the place where the least is produced, where less deliveries are increased, whether or not the product is paid. Somebody explain to me, please, because Adam Smith was explaining the thing differently. Then, please, of all the economists here who help me see the light on this matter. And finally, the most absolute irresponsibility of the Galician Union. It's not only the gloves who have to be mobilized from industry and distribution to try to raise the price of milk while the Galician Union is in cross arms, but I haven't even heard the lady adviser make the slightest prediction...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u176	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u177	...with regard to what will happen this spring rising milk deliveries across Europe. When we're still in the winter today, the price of milk powder and butter is in the same situation as it was in 2009, in the worst crisis in the European milk sector, the Galician Union doesn't care or expect you to worry, so I see...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u179	...because it's going to happen in the spring, when seasonal issues greatly increase the production of milk in our country, and not only do the livestock not only charge for that milk, but they even end up having to throw it out again. That is why we are going to vote in favour of all the proposals put forward on this initiative by the Socialist Group, because, in any case, they are all necessary. But it would be essential for the Galician Union, apart from acting on long or medium-term issues that you make here too, to start thinking about what's going to happen in a month and two months...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u181	...because the situation can become much more dramatic. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Garcia Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u183	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies. Congratulations on the new Bureau posts. Mr. Garcia, a few details on your argument and presentation of this motion. You said that the new advisor was appointed because things were not right. I mean, it's totally the opposite: because things were going well, because budgets grew for the first time, because the Rural and Sea Council could be able to unfold and continue to bet on the productive sectors of Greece. [[Applause]] You threaten once again with the lack of milk collection in Galicia. Mr. Garcia, it happens that production in Galicia continues to grow. Because I think the producers are smart enough to, as the production continues to grow... I think even in the past they repeatedly said that there was milk left without collecting. Divine command, Mr. Garcia? Divine Mandate is not what milk produces in Galicia, they are the excellent conditions of our community. [[Murmurs.]] And you clarify yourself, because you spoke of the passivity in the management of governments, that there was inaction by public administrations, and at the same time said that "currently the decrees" – and I collected, I literally believe – "consensualized and agreed by the Minister did not just be published." So, if they're consensual and committed, something's been done, right? But, ladies and gentlemen, when you come into question, you are proposing six agreements, six proposals, which bring nothing new to this House. It's six questions that I don't know if they're on impulse, as a result of an interpellation, but that impulse that you demand, and as we shall see goes to each other, we understand that this is what you're doing, Mr. Garcia. You come to evidence with your criticism, or with your stance against the current management, which are doing things. In the first paragraph it says: Commitments of the ministry to comply with the September agreement. First. The ministry acts as a mediator among the signatories and as a guarantee that these commitments signed are being carried out, for which various follow-up meetings of the agreement are being held, and even have benefited from the issuance of a first report on Christmas last. That's not of relevance, it doesn't exist, it doesn't bring any questions to the table. You also speak of the fact that nothing has been done, when yesterday, even on Monday 25, a ministerial order was signed, which, as Mrs Paz stated here, shows a standard contract, that since the Nationalist Block Galego rejects, but that Agricultural Unions and other sectors claim that it is positive, but that it will not be the solution. We must agree on the criticism – I believe too – when the Government is always attacked in the same sense, in the same direction. It has also been confirmed that the publication of the royal decree on the declaration of industrial transfer prices to distribution will be published this month, and in the next month, in February, a draft will be submitted to cooperatives and OPLs on the regulation of the activities of the first buyers. Therefore, Mr. García, the first point in execution and fulfilling itself. Second point. Exercise actions to avoid milk as a claim product. They go up here to show that there are no sanctions, no inspections, no control, no rules in the DOG or the BOE that are evidenced. First we criticize the rules, Mr. Sánchez, since AGE, but once they are published, they must be met. I think it's contradiction in itself. For there are sanctions, there are sanctions. Even the Labour Union on its website, on some news, concrete with specific accounts of such sanctions. And let's remember that AICA, in the last report she made, proposed 261 sanctions, of which 30% are milk; that is, an average – I think I remember – of 80 sanctioning files. Action of impulse, Mr. Garcia, that I understand is being fulfilled and in which one is working. Third. Labelling that collects the source of the product. That's where you're working: German milk 100%. Mrs. Paz refused it and denied it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u184	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u185	...even at ministerial and nation level; sustainable products. Also two tools that we're using to make the consumer know the origin of milk. Strategic plan. The strategic plan is part of the agenda for next February's agrarian council. Stable evaluation framework. Multiple, followed, continue meetings and dialogues with the sectors. Specific plan with own budgets; it doesn't take any other question. We have come to really important: own funds for milk. Well, look, back in 2009, in a crisis that's too acute and very difficult to overcome, Galicia with 20 million own funds came to show that socialist governments at the state level have not achieved enough funds or management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u187	...of other dairy administrations. But now yes, because the glovers and the glovers in Galicia had 119 million euros in their pocket at the end of last year. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u188	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Motion author group. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia. From the bench, please, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u189	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Pacín, the problem is easy, is that you, Mrs. Quintana then, the current Counsellor and Mr. Feijóo have all the time in the world. I understand. The problem is, greedy people don't have that much time. So, for you, indeed, all those decrees are being made. That agreement signed on September 30 is a decree, the word says so. That agreement is signed and could therefore have come out on October 1st. It is true that you, Mr. Feijóo, the current advisor and the former one have all the time in the world to fix the problems, but while the greedy do not have that time. Three percent. How is it possible that in Galicia production increases by 3% and in other autonomous communities that do not have a milk-producing vocation if they increase by 15%? Why is that? How is it possible that where only 3% is increased, in Galicia, where we have many more options to produce milk, the industry is telling the owners that they have to tighten their production, while in the rest of communities they're saying they have to increase it? That's what the advisor said many times here. So it is actually confirmed that there is a relocation of production and that we are at risk of relocation of that production. And as I said before, if nothing is done at all, by divine command it is not written anywhere that milk should be produced here. It's not written anywhere or going to be by divine command; it's going to be if you put the measurements on the table. Look, Mrs. Pacín, I think you're the least allowed to speak on the subject of labelling. You voted in the European Parliament on many occasions against the obligation to label milk; on many occasions against it, against it! It's not that they looked the other way, against labeling the milk. I would tell Mrs. Counsellor – yes, check the documents; they're there, they're public – to me, I'm not actually against the 100% Galician campaign. But what are you assuming in practice? We go back to the same thing, that you and I didn't agree with the diagnosis, just like the government. What's all this about? What's the deal? What are these measures about? For me, the price of milk goes up to the producers. The brands that sell under Galicia 100% are paying producers better than the brands that don't sell Galicia 100%? No, no, no, no. So they're serving us for something, beyond it's a measure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u190	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u191	And in the long run, is it happening right away that producers cover more of the milk? No, no, no, no. So it's not an effective measure. I think they're all measures assumed. I understand he's going to vote because he said they were doing it. You'd vote. If that's what Mr. Farinas said this morning, for a matter of love, I, with all the love of the world. I mean, if the PP problem to vote on initiatives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u192	Finish it, Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u193	...is that no love is given, all the love of the world, Mrs. Pacín!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u194	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u195	But I understand that if you said that was done...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u196	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u197	...you'll have to vote in favour. And for once, we will adopt an initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u198	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u199	...of the dairy sector, which I think doesn't say anything...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u200	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u201	...revolutionary, things that would be cashier and logical enough to be able to reverse the situation, because if not, as was said here and as I said in the intervention, within two months it will be much worse, much worse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u202	Finish, please. Thank you. [[Applause]] G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the measures to be taken to achieve a new allocation of fishing rights for the fleet of the siege which takes account mostly of socio-economic criteria
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u203	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u204	To present the motion, Mr. Rhodes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u205	See if I don't make myself, too, as in the previous initiative, into a true Martian. Marcians like those who have been camped in San Caetano for 90 days, who perfectly sparked the demand of the sector but also the inability of the People's Party to face the problems of fishing in our country. They've been more than seven years, and in these seven years they've been unable to present a single solution either for the siege or for the drag, for the steering wheel, for the mussels, for the shellfish or for the artisanal fishing. Seven years ruined! The siege – I'm telling you – is an excellent example of how the country is betrayed, how a model that marks the European Union is being imposed, and that it is only to take our fishermen's right to be able to work with dignity. Two years have been there for the shipowners of the siege demanding a fair distribution, asking our Greek government to put the most reasonable arguments on the table in order to defend our fishing, just as the Basques or the cantabs do. Two years asking the Government to be interlocutor, to defend the rights we have for centuries. In recent years, what has the German Government done? For the German Government is the great contribution it has to make in this process is that the latest initiatives were going to be doing a study to see what the best arguments are for defending our sector. What did the Spanish Government do? The Spanish Government did what it did was deceive them. Tell them that after two years they're going to give letters again and they're going to appreciate the situation. The reality is, when the time came for the truth and they gathered together, they told them they were dead, not in function, as it happened and it came quite clearly this morning with what happened to Ence, that they didn't have the slightest noise in giving him an extension for 60 years. The criteria for sharing, which is what we've been discussing here, have been set up by others, not by the Greeks. They established that the distribution of fishing migales was important for 70% to be done according to a supposed historical right, the rest would be based on today's socio-economic criteria. With this magnificent distribution, the result we all know: that the Basque fleet, with 60 boats, gets 50% of the total of the yard, and the Welsh fleet, with 150 boats, only gets 25%. Some criteria that we've been questioning from here for more than two years, questioning with all the simplicity of the world. Why do we need to take into account the period 2002-2012, for example, and not another? Why should excess catches of 2009 and 2010 be compatible? And why does this excess that I assumed a fine have to pay linearly, as if we all committed that excess? Why can't we establish another type of criteria, as there are them on the wheel, as there are them in the drag, as there are them in the background, for example? How can it be that the criteria we've seen maintain, on a daily basis, do not have any value, do not prevail, with respect to whom in their inland waters he could fish all he wanted, and now on that excess of quota, that excess of activity and fishing, it turns out that he still computes it as a historical quota? How is it possible that we don't count those who work less days a week, that we rest more days of the weekend? We work in Galicia 4 days a week and rest 3. Or those who take measures to preserve the alevins and determine, for example, a maximum peak of 500 kilograms of juuba. How it is possible that today we are still setting these criteria and that we never put those who could at least favour us, such as setting a minimum criterion to ensure the survival of the fleet or a maximum criterion, to prevent a single vessel from accumulate, for example, all the quota that has a Greek port. Can it be reasonable that 9 ships own 34% of the quota of the jury in the VIIIc? Can it be reasonable for 12 boats to catch 33.3% of the share of the interest in the IXa? Of course it can't be reasonable. Reasonable is what we are moving here, which is that since 1986 they have been unable to question the distribution which the European Union imposes, in which we have been totally distracted. I've explained it more than once, 30,000/40,000 tons to the Spanish state, while Scotland, for example, 210,000 tons, when we have much more fleet than this country has. Another example. As it may have been two years ago, a ship of contained Greek and Basque arts had the same right to be able to fish. And today a Greek boat, next to a vase, they have four times as many fishing rights as they have a Greek. How can you stop in this country, for example, that we passed a right two years ago to be able to fish at IXa 10,000 kilos a day of mouth, and today we have 54 tons for the entire fleet and for the whole year? Or, like not!, how can we stop the situation of the sardine, when we came to claim that it was necessary to develop a plan of recovery of the sardine to the image of what was done in 2000, in 2001, in 2002, and the Counsellor said that she did not find that the sardine had a problem? And now the problem is that we have it there, and above it are incapable of taking action. At the Galician Fisheries Council they adopted the socio-economic criteria, and two days from there it turns out that the Mapra itself takes away an order where it throws the criteria that theoretically had to defend the Greek Government. And the drama of the sardine is tremendously dramatic, because we went from 19,000 tons to sharing between the Portuguese and Spanish states, with a criterion that is fundamentally geared also to historical criteria, where Portugal corresponds to 70% and Galicia 30%. But the most dramatic thing is that in these last two years we have neither ass of fish, and the right that historically we have we find is pointing at Portugal, which is pointing at it in the Basque Country and which is also pointing at it in the Gulf of Cadiz. And before that, what measures? We checked as Portugal if it had this year's ability to put measures on the table. What about the Greeks? The Greeks have the example of last year's subsidized unemployment, which today no one has been able to charge. So the current model is a model that is completely ruining the sector, in this case, of the fence, but also the rest of the sectors, because it only benefits a minority. It benefits the most fisher, the one who practiced the Olympics, the one who was able to fish all he wanted in inland waters, and the one who was also punished for overfishing. And, above all, what is dramatic is that this government has the great achievement it has achieved during this crisis only to divide and upset the sector itself. He didn't take into account the regulatory criteria that Galicia demands, the criteria that are more of our own. Because it's a nonsense, if we've been regulating for so many years, putting reasonable measures on the table, what we can't do is go to a new division, and that's what we've been talking about for the last few years, it turns out that it's not worth anything at all. So there is a need for a solution to this problem, and the solution we have already proposed here, in this motion, in three very simple terms, that anyone who had a minimum common sense would accept without any problems. The first is, in the responsibility of the European Union, to question this division with which we are highly disadvantaged. The second is to impose the distribution criteria on the table that benefit Galicia at least. I used to say that before, why that period and another one? Why shouldn't we take into account those sustainability attributes that we've seen by putting on the table, such as daily quotas, such as breaks, such as the number of crew members, or less days of activity, or how to set up a slot to prevent a few...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u206	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u207	...have no right, and others remain with all the right of the world. And finally, like not!, we can't give up the historic right that we have to go back fishing for a bite. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, today they have a new initiative so that the tidal wave that they were able to put in place the sailors and the shipowners of the siege does not carry them forward. So you're going to put a hand here too to change this reality! otherwise you'll get drowned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u208	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u209	The last time we spoke in this round of siege – I think I remember that it was also on the initiative of the BNG – I presented a substitution amendment that was not accepted. Today I present a replacement amendment, because I consider it my duty to remain responsible for this sector; a responsibility that leads me to analyze the sector to seek real and comprehensive solutions over time, as did the two-party Government with the presentation, on its day, of an integral plan for this fishery. Plan that should start from serious bases, so that the fence sector can reach its age and start acting in defense of its profitability, which ultimately is what it is. I cannot vote for an initiative that follows from one purposely fairer basis and that as the only viable solution envisages reducing the quota to one sector of the Welsh fleet to give it to another. That's not where the problem is. The problem is in TAC (totally permissible for catches to be distributed). I've said several times in connection with this conflict that poverty has very badly divided. Making a community division was the big mistake of negotiation, they go there for three years and therefore we cannot support this motion. My proposal is to recover the locker of the north-west Cantabrian as a single locker, not as four lockers. The motion does not clarify whether the fishing system will be divided by daily quotas or quotas, and we would have to discuss whether the previous day quota system is beneficial or not for ship workers. Because this is not only a problem of shipowners, it is also a problem of sailors, and the former system dominated some sailors – i.e., some workers – in the face of others with unequal treatment. To make any right decision it is necessary to know the reality of the sector: how much you fish, how much you've billed, for everyone and every one of the boats. It is also necessary to know why some ships have more prices than others, because, apart from punctual cases, all vessels had and necessarily have a manual fishing logbook – and now also an electronic logbook – on board so the quotas were allocated. That way goes my amendment, which I hope will be accepted, to have all the necessary data and to be able to present a good solution to the whole sector, because I think the solution has to be valid for the whole sector. My substitution amendment therefore proposes to present the results of the 2015 campaign for all vessels in the Welsh siege, where it consists of species and kilograms of species captured in each of the fishing areas of the north-west Cantabrian wharf. Amount of sales on the far side of all the galley boats that make in the North-West Atlantic. Quotas transferred to the joint holding by the vessels in the vicinity of Galicia, precisely according to the excess of catches now to be paid. Number of vessels operating together and how many joint farms existed in Galicia in 2015. Number of vessels and crews enveloped in vessels, on joint operation and on individual exploitation. Sales carried out on board by each and every one of the vessels in the Greek siege between 2003 and 2011. Second, to defend the quota system as a management formula, whatever the fishing distribution criteria the Galician Union sets out for the management of the siege fisheries. Third, defend the participation of the fleet of the Welsh siege throughout the North-West Cantabria, eliminating the actions divided by communities. Four, urge the Government of the State to promote a campaign against the Community authorities for the increase of TAC in all species of fishing to the northwestern Cantabrian fleet, seeking a unit of action with the autonomous communities of Asturias, Cantabria and Euskadi. Defending a TAC distribution formula that does not diminish the quota that they have at this moment and each of the vessels in Greece, make the joint or individual exploitation. And finally, the Galician Parliament condemns all the acts of sabotage that have occurred in recent months in siege boats in Greek ports and in ships with base port in Galicia. We hope this amendment will be accepted. In any case, if not, we abstained in the vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u211	Good afternoon, everyone. He was still shocked by the speech of the President of the House this morning, who made it very clear some of the principles that govern the politics of the People's Party in the House, which is more love for the House itself and belonging to the House than love to defend the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks. Because this, the situation of the siege, is a clear example of how a government obviously needs a real sector and is able to anticipate other interests, possibly of the party and of the state as a whole, to leave once again the sector in Galicia with the worst possible results, in view of a different result, if we had a government that defended the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks and, above all, of their sailors. The first question to be asked is that it would happen in this country if an industry that gives more than 1,300 jobs was about to close. What would happen if an industry that generates 60 million euros in auxiliary companies was about to close. Or an industry that is able to inject 40 million euros into marine wages in this country. So we'd be in a huge conflict, because it's unacceptable that a government's political decision leaves 1,300 workers on the street and leaves this country without 107 million euros of income spent on the coast of Galicia. So it's not just a matter of this country's sailors, it's a problem of the country. And it's a problem in a country that can't afford to stop entering more than 107 million euros into areas and sectors that are very much needed not only money, but jobs. So you have to widen the focus, and in view of that, the only ones who had high sights to identify the problem were the sailors themselves, who spent three months camping at the gates of the Union simply saying that there was a need: the need for social justice. All these sailors are asking is for a fair deal. That we will already talk about expanding the TAC of Europe, but, with the division that exists, what is not reasonable is that a few are left with most of the fish that can be fished. What is unreasonable is that a very minority group of boats, in many cases linked to the People's Party itself, are left with most of the fish that can be fished in the country. Or it is not reasonable that the People's Party, for other interests, does not defend its interests against those of the fleet of other autonomous communities. That is the reality of what we are debating. We can get more quota tomorrow, but if the distribution is still the same, it'll be the same as injustice, and we'll give more quota to whoever else has, and what's not, has nothing. It is not to receive the current agreement. It's not to be told to vessels that have no type of quota that will be able to fish another 10,000 kilos, because 10,000 kilos more five years ago could fish us every day; 10,000 kilos more means just 5,000 euros a year. You tell me that this country's boat, the fence, stays at 5,000 euros a year; none, it's impossible! We're sharing poverty and saying that this misery is the salvation of the whole sector. But behind this inequality, what is a policy of the People's Party that has an objective, and is the occupation of the territory and also the occupation of the sea. We denounced it in 2013: each of the strategies of the People's Party were not wrong, they were looking for a goal, which was to throw our sailors out of the sea and also our sailors. Because the People's Party wants to occupy these spaces with another kind of industry, with large industries that exploit our sea. And we say no, that our sea must exploit this country's mariner; those who know how to take care of the sea, who were able to understand that they had to take care of the resource. But the People's Party wants something else, he wants big industries exploiting our sea; that's why he bets on the waste, that's why he can't live from the sea and that's why he's betting on a conversion of the sector that's going to mean what the conversion of the land has already meant: to make our coast desert, and that's something we can't consent to. So we're not going to have an impact on the explanations made by the BNG spokesperson, which we share to a hundred percent, but we ask the People's Party that once and for all, now that he begins to understand that this path also leads to the disappearance, he understands that he has to defend the country. And defending the country means defending its territory and the people who live in this country from its resources. If they don't, you'll be complicit in once again handing over our resources, and of course our fisheries, the multinationals who are going to flee with that money out and not spending it in sectors that need it so much in this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u212	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. I'm sorry you were shocked today. It wasn't my intention. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u213	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this motion put forward today by the Galician Nationalist Block, although with very little hope, or rather none, that this serves anything. And I'm saying this because the management of the People's and the Government's Party in this matter is perfectly summed up in a question that was asked recently by the Minister of Development in functions, when several representatives of the Acerga group were given a letter explaining the reasons for his claims to the President of the Union, at that time Mrs. Pastor asked herself: "Alberto. Where's Alberto?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, this short sentence perfectly sums up the balance of the People's Party in the siege conflict; a conflict that lasts almost three years and where inaction and displacement were the general focus of this government. [[Applause]] They started almost three years ago by insulting the people of the sea, first by saying that they were four exalted who did not represent anyone, they continued to apply hard actions to many representatives of this collective for participating in various demonstrations, none of them for more than 90 days, who remained camped in San Caetano, and ended the game by giving explanations just a few days ago, in the Ministry's General Fisheries Secretariat, that the only thing that they do is provoke disgust and rage; disgust and rage for shielding that the current Government is in function and therefore cannot be modified the current management order of the northwestern Cantabriacal room; and disgust and courage when on yesterday we all saw that same government in function was able to grant an extension of more than 60 years to the Ence factory. This is undoubtedly the best show of the interests of the People's Party. We have said this many times since this rostrum of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party: one day you will have to explain to all the Greeks why they have been defending a model of distribution of pelagic species that condemns the total ruin to almost 80% of the fleet of the Greek siege; a model based on historical rights that rewards those who have not been responsible for the environment, who have not been self-limited for years with daily commercial tops, and deeply discriminated against those who have even been able to reduce their activity to four days a week. That's the model that the People's Party stands for, what's been defending for these three years. We have another model, of course we have another model; a model where socio-economic criteria are taken into account, where everyone, regardless of where they live or the boat they work on, has the right month to fish; a model in which everyone wins and no one loses; a model in which there are no first and second sailors; a model that guarantees the same possibility of access to the use of all mariners. And of course there are alternatives, and of course the Greek Government can do things, but for that we need political will and ability to interact with the sector, something that the current advisor has been missing, which for a long time should have abandoned his position. We need leadership to reach a consensus with all the representatives and different associations of the sector; we need a consensus and support it, just as they are doing, Mr Balsairo, in other communities. Because, gentlemen, in this matter there are several fronts open: First, one that needs to change the distribution criteria, removing relative weight from historical rights; and for that it is important to assert the position, weight and importance of our fleet in Madrid. One second, which is to jointly manage the scarce fishing opportunities that our ships have. And this is where the German Government can do and can get to work. Unfortunately, during these three years the only thing he did was confronting and confronting the sector. There are two well-differentiated fronts on which you can work, but unfortunately this government does not want or can, for lack of interaction with the sector, address either. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, people return to the sea because of need. You don't think they won the battle. The sector and the Socialist Party are going to continue fighting until a more fair and equalist model is reached for all. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u214	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u215	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the German Government, and also the People's Parliamentary Group that supports the Government's action, wants to achieve the best conditions for the fleet of the siege in the development of its activity. And the fruit that she wants to achieve the best conditions is that we are very pleased with the results of the meetings that the lady has had with the search sector. And we are also very pleased with that proposal for quota reassignment designed by the Board the initiative of the sector itself and which accepts the sector with pleasure so that no vessel - I repeat it, in case it is not understood well: for no vessel from Greece - is without quota; that is yes, distributed according to the size of that vessel. By the way, a proposal already made by the Government of Galicia two years ago, and then we don't understand why it was not accepted, but it's also true that it's never too late to rectify. Of course, the Union is taking the initiative in defending the fence sector; I repeat that if it is not understood correctly, the Union is taking the initiative in defending the fence sector, for example, asking that it does not contain sanctions for overfishing this year. Above all, benefit the fleet of approach. And that's going to be an important increase in quota for every ship in this association. Mr. Rhodes, we cannot accept the motion of the Galician Nationalist Block without you giving us some or a lot of explanations, because you spoke here less than you asked for in the motion. And we want you to explain, for example, the consequences of eliminating the current North-West Cantabrian Management Plan. What do you want? Do you really want to go back to the previous model, to the model that Mr. Val defends, to the model that would return to the Olympic fishing – since you spoke in the gallery of this Parliament – when there were no limits and when there was no control, to the model that the Socialist Party had, which at some point you also supported, which gives rise to overfishing sanctions that have to pay our sailors and that you have to pay our sector until 2025? That is why we cannot support this since the People's Parliamentary Group. But we also wanted to ask him for explanations. What would happen to what you're asking for from a linear distribution per crew member? We have to put the numbers down. We put the numbers in, and it turns out, by casting the numbers, Galicia loses a lot, the Andalusian fence would enter. Andalucia has 1,100 crew members, Galicia has 1,228 crew members, and only in the IXa area – the most common one has the Greek circle – would lose 50% of the quota of the jury; in an area where we currently have almost 99% of the quota, 98.7%. So the question comes: what are you asking us?, what are you asking the Government of Galicia and what are you asking the Counsellor? Do you ask the Council to defend a position in which Galicia is losing? Is that what you ask? We can't accept it. Yes, we say that if there is any criterion of sharing that reaches a greater consensus between the sector and favours Galicia, we will apply it immediately, but what we are not going to do is defend positions in which Galicia is losing. You also ask, Mr Rodas, at point 1, for Europe to change the distribution of shared species; I repeat, for the Galician Nationalist Block at point 1, for Europe to change the distribution of shared species. And it turns out we're the second country, tied up with Ireland, more often in pelagic species, those we're interested in. It's true that you don't analyze the consequences of what you ask...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u216	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u217	You like experiments, and experiments are very good with gas. And then you play to mobilize the mayors in defense of the siege, including that of Santiago, that of Becerreá or that of Sobrerado dos Monxes, who will already tell me what interests they may have in the fleet of the siege, because, as I know, none of the three have sea. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u218	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Motion author group. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u219	You were talking about a conversation. There's nothing else to do with the sector, with the ability of the search advisor: two years and he wasn't even able to explain to them which arguments to defend that, because reality says otherwise. The reality says that up to two years ago there were 6,000 kilograms each day of swearing, and now there are ships that have 30,000 or 40,000 kilograms. You'll tell me how that model allows you to survive. Mayor mobility? That's what you're getting now, which after the siege comes the draft aquaculture law and looks at there as their mayors are positioning. That's what it's like to have a purpose! [[Applause]] So, stop reading, here we're playing physics. You totally conditioned the model, before it was a universal model; having a boat was to have the right to fish, and that's just dynamite. Having a boat today is, in many cases, being ruined because, by their decisions, they took away the universal right they had to be able to fish, and today their right is absolutely ridiculous. So the future is what's marking the sector, whether this is or is changing, or, if not, the only alternative is the abandonment of activity and spending. Then, with regard to Mrs Martínez's amendment, the truth is that it hurts me, because I'm going to take more time than I would like. Your amendment responds more to a personal problem than to a political position of the country, and to me, because you are characterized by that last. And within nationalism – which we share – we, at least from the BNG, are sick of personalism and are sick of narcissism, especially of narcissism. You're talking about presenting the results of the campaign. But do you think 90 days weren't enough to try to stage the drama that the fleet is living? Do you think the fleet is not aware that the People's Party is turning it into an irregular activity? Do you think they don't know what their own reality is? But all this time, instead of taking steps to try to normalize that situation, what the People's Party has done is drowning them more and more, putting them more and more into an illegal situation. That is the great drama in which the People's Party is turning them, but not only to the fleet, to the sellers, to the merchants, to the refrigerators; throughout the prison the People's Party is completely illegalizing it. And we're the ones we aspire to are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u220	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u221	...as do the people in the siege, to be able to work with dignity and to be able to work with legality. And, look, the problem is not the TAC; the TAC may go up, but as far as the TAC goes up, it just rises up exactly the same difference as there is. Whoever has the most, the more it accumulates, and the less, even if something comes up to him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u223	...that doesn't give you to solve the problem. So they had the chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u224	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u225	...if you want to take advantage of it, welcome to help the sector, otherwise you!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u226	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Next motion. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galga de Esquerda, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the measures to be taken in the management of school lunches of public schools in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u227	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u228	Mr Vázquez has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u229	Good afternoon, everyone. We started this afternoon session talking about milk, about fishing, and we kept talking about school dining, about educational problems. So we're talking about problems that stand out without a solution produced by the inaction and immobilism of this government, of the German Government. This January was 60 years old from the nuclear accident of Palomares, that famous chapouion of Mr. Fraga on the beaches of Almería; a picture which, no doubt, passed on to the annals of populism and the deception which Mr. Fraga so fond of us in later times and which continues the People's Party with a faithful inheritance. The Counsellor took good note of that model of government exercise and of that way of exercising public responsibilities, and when they criticized the problems detected in public school dining, because, instead of acting and looking for effective and future solutions, the Counsellor decided to do this: go to one of the schools affected to take a picture by eating a soup meal; that is, served in a magnificent golden ceiling, for nothing in a plastic tray, as in which most students eat it in catering services. And I did it at a center where they had to call regularly a fast food company, Telepizza – I feel it's inappropriate advertising – because the food that came to them was fermented, with mofo remains, in melted trays and in situations that, of course, did not meet the minimum health and safety requirements for the student. He was demeaned by a populism exercise instead of ensuring the safety of children and children, and he did so when there were at the same time 2,800 children affected by an important problem, for a problem that could affect their health, since the food served to these children had been prepared in clandestine facilities previously closed by the Health Council. And he did it after he had to suspend the 17% of catering centers, 23 centers exactly and after we had met the witnesses of the affected families, who, of course, were not received to meet their demands. The councilman – here present – decided to take the picture by eating in the center, but not by clearing responsibility in the first person or by making the maximums responsible for the complementary services of the dining service assume those responsibilities. And the most serious is not this – which is tremendously serious – but this effort summarized in that photo – only equivalent to that famous photo by Palomares – was because the People's Party intended to mask the failure of its model, based on the support of complementary educational services. He insisted on this mistake, he insisted on this disguise, saying that the new system, that the system of coke, was a more fair, more equitable system, and that he also forced to pay more to those who had the most. He always set the example – and he does this government – of the case of Members, accusing us of pretending that our children had paid the same as a low-income person. Well, the truth is, the only truth is, according to this system, they pay the maximum price – EUR 4,5 – those couples who have a child and each one of them has EUR 1,125. Those who enter the most of that amount pay the maximum rate, EUR 4.5. And they do, they pay that maximum figure, just like the son of the president of Indtex – famous president – in the case of eating in an indirect management dining room in a public center; an Index president who enters 8 million euros a year. For this family who enters EUR 1.125 pay EUR 4.5 per day, i.e. 90 euros per month, it accounts for 8% of all their wages. If Mr. Pablo Isla had spent 8% of his salary paying for his son's dining room, he would have to pay €2,664 daily. That would only make the agreed coke fair and fair, since they would pay the same percentage of salary. But, well, it disguises itself, as I say, in an absolutely gross way and injusticees a system that is neither progressive nor fair, but penalizes the most popular classes, as I have just demonstrated. We understand and defend in this Parliament – and we will always do so – that the only possible fiscal justice is to establish progressive taxation, so that those who have the most pay more taxes, and not that they pay more directly for a given service, health or education. We believe that essential public services must be free, but always funded by the taxes of all citizens, so that those who have the most income – including Mr. Pablo Isla – pay more taxes. But he raised another argument, from our point of view, perversely, that means that complementary education services were not educational services and that, therefore, establishing reconciliations did not affect the fundamental right to education. It is a tremendous contradiction, since, as we all know, the school transport service is also a complementary service which, fortunately, is not yet charged to families, unless it considers the Government of the People's Party unjust that high-income families do not pay for school transport and which, therefore, has planned to make it pay from now on as well. The arguments fall by their own weight, but that's why the Government of the People's Party had to deliver itself to that publicity campaign to sanitize their public image in pre-election period to prove that the school dining rooms of indirect management through catering had the same quality as those that prepare themselves in public kitchens, through public staff; something that no one but them, believes, is true. Because it is impossible for a fresh food, prepared immediately for its consumption, to have the same quality as precooked, precooked and transported tens of thousands of miles. That's why we – having spent almost two months of this unfortunate, would say no accident or incident, because it is repeated and has happened many times since the People's Party ruled, and therefore demands that solutions be taken – we bring this motion precisely so that definitive and future solutions are taken. First, to improve coordination of the functioning of school dining services. We believe it is essential that a commission should be set up at school, a commission as a centre dining room, composed of the director, by the school dining officer himself, by the workers or a representative of the school dining room workers, and mothers and parents at this school, or, in his case, if he were to be added, if he was to be educated, the high school student. We believe that this is the way that this commission coordinates the service, ensures that this service is of quality and therefore lends full assurance to families. A second point that seems very important to us is the creation of a zonal commission of dining rooms so that those dining rooms of a region have a body where they can represent and coordinate joint actions, even to manage purchases more effectively and to set up campaigns, plan educational activities, etc. Thirdly, we believe that it is essential to integrate eating time into the educational plans of school so that that time is conceived, planned and coordinated as a school time and, therefore, to understand that the dining service is not just a way to feed children, to feed children, but has a component, an educational component of great potential, precisely in the field of health education, values, etc. Fourthly, we propose the creation of a comprehensive plan to boost the consumption of local products, of fresh foods, of organic production derivatives, of short marketing circuits, so that these are the essential foods and the priorities to be served in public school dining. Fifthly, we believe that there has to be a wide public job offer for workers who provide their services in direct school dining rooms and who have seen their staff tables cut in very important ways. Let's remember that the German Government has shut down since 22 school lunchers came to power in direct management...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u231	And lastly – and not least for that – we believe that a recovery, rescue process must be initiated, for the direct management of public school dining rooms, because we understand that this is the best way to provide quality service and to ensure the health of children and children in Galicia. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u232	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr Pombo has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u233	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the BNG coincides with the substance of the question raised in this motion, which we claim, we understand, the public and direct management of school dining rooms in Galicia's public centers. It couldn't have been any other way. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in the plenary on November 25, our group called upon the Counsellor – today present here – in front of the distribution of ill-stated food by two companies, who were Col-Servicol and Perea Rojas, concessionaires of the school luncheon service in Galicia. The questioning was on a serious issue, which is food security in the dining rooms of our country's public centers; by the way, following complaints from multiple ANPAs of public centers facing serious problems in the dining room services affecting between 2,000 and 3,000 students. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that at the plenary session on 1 December the BNG Parliamentary Group itself, by means of a motion, called for the public and direct management of the dining room in Galicia's public centres. You, Mr. Vázquez, know that direct management is what has been defending BNG forever. We defend, of course, quality public eaters, who prepare menus based on healthy, fresh, seasonal products, our land, our garden, our fish, cooked in kitchens and markets in proximity trade, hence the coincidence also with some of the points of its motion. We defend these quality public services because we understand them as fundamental, not only to guarantee the system access to education of many students, but also to ensure the reconciliation of the family and work life of thousands of Greek families, also to guarantee a quality food in times when, unfortunately, many children on board social exclusion are not able to do unless it is in school and also to guarantee the educational value of school lunchers themselves and to fight against climate change, using the food kilometre zero. For this reason, our willingness to support this motion, but we present an amendment – which I hope you accept – in the sense or with the idea of completing this motion. We understand that the Education Council must plan the recovery of the public and direct management of public schools and must recover the direct public management of the functioning of school dining rooms that are currently managed by the ANPAs and these ANPAs are prepared for this management, and we understand that while it is also necessary to take the necessary measures to ensure that those who are not recovered for public management, if you enable that, within what are the recruitment requirements, guarantees are established to improve the quality of the menus offered according to the amendment we present and that you know: to ensure quality, gentlemen, to avoid serious problems reported in this Parliament, not once, but on several occasions, for the malfunction of certain catering services. At the BNG, too, we understand that the Education Council must ensure the installation of suitable dining and cooking spaces in all public centres that are built in the future in order to make possible this service so demanded by many families. And finally, another point, to set up a plan to reform and expand the improvement of school dining rooms in the public centres that exist today, because we understand that there is a demand that cannot be dealt with. We understand that quality service is fundamental. And I'm done reiterating that we're ready to support this motion. We hope that the amendment tabled by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will be accepted by you for the sake of the quality of food that is cooked in school lunches and for the sake of a public education service that we consider essential to ensure a number of conditions that we understand are priority. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u234	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u235	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, something smells like rot in the dining rooms of the public school in Greece – never better said – in reference to the menu, but also in the provision of this public service to a number of private catering companies located outside our country. With regard to the menus, Mr. Vázquez has already explained in his last-full interview – that I could not hear directly for reasons alien to my will, but that if I read with much interest – details the most scandalous deficiencies found in food; deficiencies that endanger health and even the lives of our children and our own: fermented food, prepared by clandestine workers – go on to know in which health conditions – and served in inadequate and toxic containers, and the latter, already investigated by Junta, with the finding of larvae in a croquettes in a school in Ribeira in a catering served by the company Serunion, that this company had already lined up with larvae a soup, in this case in León. But this didn't stop him from being hired by the Galician Board of Education. Without considering the subject of privatization, it shows a lot of mismanagement in the way to hire. I wonder what priority do you have in doing this, the cost or quality of the service? I also read carefully the counselor's answer by minimizing the problem with the argument that zero risk does not exist in any order of life. Counsellor, all the lords, all the people we share right now this hemicycle, we know that the risk of living implies the risk of dying, we also know that our life hangs on a thread and we also know that there are accidents. But it is impossible – at least in what this Member is responsible for – that health, that the food of our children and our children in public school, reaches the category on the smallest scale of irremediable risk. Don't confuse your lucky accident with a mismanagement of the board you're running. With disqualifications and figures, the advisor tried to contradict the arguments of the interpelent, when it comes to – and to see if they ever do – it is to rethink and consensulate a new model in the face of the failure of what you have imposed, which in addition to significantly improving the quality of the menus favors precarious work, moves direct management and the local product – much cooler and cheaper – and also strengthens the service for users. We must rethink and agree with the opposition, with the ANPA and with the educational community a new model for this service that is part of a country project, which collects our peculiarities, wealth and quality of the Greek product, Counsellor; as the slogan says, "Galiza quality." They are instrumental in this public service for job creation and for favoring the local product and economy, and also, and why not, for children and children, Greeks and Greeks, to enjoy excellent food both in their ingredients and in their manufacture. I will support this motion. Thank you very much. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u236	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u237	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Welcome, Counsellor, to this debate; a debate we have had many times on the subject of dining rooms. The truth is that in recent times we have not stopped talking about school dining rooms in this Parliament, although it is unfortunately not because of the great importance of this complementary service, but because of the problems that have arisen in recent months with the management of this service by catering companies. You all know that the Socialist Group has been very critical of the policy carried out by the Education Council in relation to school lunchers following the 2013 implementation of the new decree regulating them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group wants to use this motion to make some reflections, which I think are coming. There is a first model of dining, the direct management model, which is what we like most about socialists, because we understand that it serves a good service, gives good quality, has very much involved in their daily management the whole educational community and helps the economic fabric of the towns and villages where the educational center is located. The essential thing of this model is just to feed the student with the money that the centre receives from the Education Council itself and without waiting for the change of economic profitability. A second model that also deserves our respect is when a company lends that service and prepares food in the very kitchen of the educational center; many of them small and medium-sized companies, but very well-carded in our villages and in our villages. And a third model that we've always said that we don't like anything is what it has to do with pure and hard catering service -- a system that has been sadly up to date in the end of 2015 -- not exactly because of its good doing. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we need to continue to ask ourselves what criteria should prevail when we assist a dining room service. We need to keep asking ourselves whether the prices of some large companies will not be right behind the sad situation that we have been living with school dining rooms in Galicia, and not only in centres that depend on the Education Council but also in centres that depend on certain municipalities, as here in Santiago. I sincerely believe that here is one of the essential problems for things to happen like those we've lived through in the last few months. We have to seriously consider whether there should necessarily be other more important criteria, with more weight, in order to assess the service of these characteristics, because we all know that some companies are competing in fear of prices just because they are doing themselves properly with the adjudication of the service and removing their competitors by step; a question that will need to be noted in the quality of the menus that the students themselves receive. I have already said many times in parliamentary headquarters – and I want to repeat it today to make it very clear – that what we like most socialists is direct management by the Education Council. We trust you. But we don't want to recognise that there are companies – I insist, many of them small and medium-sized and well-incardinated in the territory – that also do things very well; small and medium-sized companies that give life to the commercial fabric of the villages and towns where they provide that service and that fit perfectly to the eating habits of our children. I think we all agree that the dining room, together with the other great complementary service, which is school transportation, is essential to ensure the right to education, as it is also essential to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family, and as we also know that in these times of crisis many children and children of families with economic difficulties do their best food of the day at school. These issues that I have just explained are those that seem really relevant to the Socialist Group. We have, however, Mr Vázquez, some doubts about certain issues raised in this motion to improve the service. We are not convinced in the Socialist Group that by appointing supervisory committees everywhere – of mothers and parents, of students or of workers – the dining room can be improved. We think that this improvement must come from the empowerment of the best management models, prioritising direct management and food processing in the schools themselves and discarding, whenever possible, the catering service. It must also come from better funding for the service and from punishing companies competing for fearsome prices. And finally there must be greater rigour in control by the authorities of the centres, the ANPAs and the inspections of education and health. Therefore, while sharing the overall philosophy of this initiative to improve the dining room, the Socialist Group will vote for abstention because it considers that it will not be filling the educational centres of supervisory committees as if the service could be improved. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u238	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, good afternoon to all. Mr Docasar, welcome your position, your kind speech and coherence to a debate that needs above all coherence, rigour and deep knowledge of what we are debating today and other times when we talk about school dining. Because someone seems to lose the perspective that we're talking about children who are at school, most of them in compulsory education, when it's not child education. But please the tone and please the content too. Mrs. Churches, I am deeply sorry that you had taken the opportunity to do demagogy, especially to blame things that have nothing to do with the Council and even appoint companies of which I don't know if it's true what you say, but, in any case, I would have to prove it because, if so, I would go to trial. But, in any case, they're performing a service today at Santiago Town Hall without a contract. You could say the same thing to the mayor of Santiago, which I don't think he's going to say because he's not from the PP, of course; that's the big difference between them. [[Applause]] But we're going to the bottom of the matter, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vázquez, you had two appearances, one at the request of the BNG, and another at the request of your parliamentary group, and there were deep explanations, data, and all that knowledge that there was in the management of the problem. But you've got so much, you gave it anyway, you haven't listened to anything or you didn't want to understand anything at all about what you explained. Come here today to justify point 5 or 6 of direct management, and put four points ahead of which, in fact, you had to make an effort, but it was useless, nothing. You speak in point 1 of models; models that, as Mr. Docasar has already said, do not work, that are no longer working and that are absolutely out of place, and have already been found that in their time, in the 1990s, they did not work. Apart from that it's absolutely contradictory to your speech, because sometimes we overburden the teaching teams and sometimes accuse you of the same reason the Councillory of disleashing or discharging functions. It also talks about bodies of educational participation. Because it's strict, the educational community already has them. It's the school councils, which are regulated; in addition, even by law. Eating time? It's useless to argue with you, Mr. Vázquez. You know how professional that's already included in the PEC. You know, but ask as if I wasn't. Healthy habits? Home, they don't work on education and health councils in a coordinated manner in healthy habits and food education! Healthy guides are there, coordination campaigns and health-education strategies are there. The Germola Plan, which fights childhood obesity, is there, born of a PNL and term of office of this House as well. I mean, you don't care. [[Murmurs.]] Local products? There are already lots of companies and self-employed that serve companies that, in their time, distribute their products to cook or to companies that call catering as well. There are. What about local products? They're already there and they're already participating. In the same way, man!, ecological farming? Do you think ecological agriculture is in a position to serve food for 10 and a half million menus that the Council distributes annually at public schools in Galicia? 80% for free, and 90%, who receive some kind of help. Well, that's what you're going to do. On the other hand, direct or indirect management? It is, of course, contemplated in prayers, and it is contemplated in the decrees, here and in all autonomous communities. Workplaces? The counsel explained it the other day, 670 kitchen posts, 3,300 assistants and 560 in the companies whose service bid includes staff. But you don't care. In any case, they resort to tremendism, they resort to demagogy, they resort to everything that can mean to them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u240	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u241	... according to my opinion, votes. And he says, "Security." The counselor has already said it in both appearances: zero risk; but, look!, no health risk, that is quite clear. Anyway, we do exactly as you do in the decrees where they rule, whether the BNG with Mr. Quintana's councillor or in Andalusia. Decree of 2010 when you ruled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u242	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u243	...–Fixed, Mr President–: hiring a private-sector company. Conventions with private institutions for food distribution services in the municipalities, exactly the same as us. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u244	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u245	In any case, you're criticizing what you're doing in the ANPA and in the municipalities too, because you're certainly sharing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u247	...the food in the same way. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u248	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Motion author group, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u249	First of all, I would like to thank the support of the BNG in advance and also the content of the motion based on a series of points which, in some ways, result in aspects which we also contemplate in our initiative, but which also complement in an important way and which, therefore, we will assume, as it cannot be otherwise. Secondly, I want to regret the coincidence between the People's Party and the Socialist Party in not accepting this proposal; a coincidence that, of course, every day extends to more and more aspects and that, of course, from our point of view, does not hope for anything good, anything good for citizenship. And I say this especially because I don't understand that when we propose participation committees for which we advocate it is by a management model where citizenship has the opportunity to participate and contribute, and not, of course, by increasing the bureaucracy of the centres. Unable to understand participation as an increase in tasks for the centers. What if it's an increase in tasks is when you're charged with tasks that are not specifically educational, as is done by you since the Education Council. We believe it is through the involvement of all, families, students, teachers and professionals who work in school dining rooms as if we could improve this service and not through a management of technicians or experts who have believed their failure, especially in front of the People's Party Council. In addition, we do not understand the position of the People's Party when this motion is very clear about what we want. And we don't understand the Socialist Party's position either because this motion contains seven points, and only two refer to the constitution of food management committees. I could ask for a point vote and vote in favour of the rest of the points, such as the recovery of direct management, or other aspects where I imagine we'll find a match. With regard to the arguments already put forward by the People's Party, it is clear that there was a health risk. It's obvious that when a child or a child is served with poor food, there's a potential risk. To deny this is to deny the obvious. It is clear that when a child or a child is served food in a wasted plastic tray there is a health risk, this is not denied by anyone. And I imagine that the provision of service to these companies was withdrawn because there was a health risk, not because of whimsicalness, because otherwise we would be faced with a government that is far more irresponsible than it is. We understand that the Government has to undo that falsification that the provision of indirect services is cheaper and more effective, because in the case of school eaters it has a lot of credit for its failure, and, therefore, it has the possibility to rectify it, unless the only thing it wants is to benefit those companies that each day have higher incomes thanks to that wager by the indirect management mode, which is the one that has the People's Party and the right. Nothing else. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u250	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. We therefore vote on the motions. Let's start. This is where the vice president will help me. She has a lot of practice on her computer; she controls it pretty much better than me. The truth is, when you're new... [[Murmurs.]] We shut the doors. We voted for the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo García García, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to the dairy sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u251	The next motion is from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which has already said that it did not accept the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We shut the doors and proceed to the vote. [[Murmurs.]] G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the measures to be taken to achieve a new allocation of fishing rights for the fleet of the siege which takes account mostly of socio-economic criteria. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38; abstentions, 2. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u252	The next motion is from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, which already... [[Mr. Docasar Docasar asks for the word.]] Mr. Docasar, what do you want the word for? If you accept the AGE Parliamentary Group... yes, a point vote. [[Mr. Docasar pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Can we group them? Can you tell me which one we can group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u253	There are 6 points in total, we'd vote for the 1st and the 2nd together, and the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 6th together, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u254	Do you accept the amendment of the Block Parliamentary Group? Yeah, he said he'd take it. We therefore vote firstly on points 1 and 2 of this motion. Vote for points 1 and 2 of the transactional text of the G.P. Motion. of the Alternative Galga de Esquerda, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the measures to be taken in the management of school dining rooms at public schools in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 38; abstentions, 17. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u255	And we now vote on the rest of the four points, with the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. We vote. Vote of points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the transactioned text of the G.P. Motion. of the Alternative Galga de Esquerda, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz and D. José Javier Ron Fernández, on the measures to be taken in the management of school dining rooms at public schools in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u256	We opened the doors. We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the entry into force of the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System and its application in the field of prison centres in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u257	There were no amendments to this non-law proposal. For the defense of it, Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u258	Good afternoon to all and to all. At the second plenary session, we discussed the situation of dispensation of last-generation treatment for persons deprived of their freedom from Greek prisons. We were discussing the administration of hepatitis C drugs to prisoners, and we discussed it with the result of a bill that had brought us to the Galaga Platform for Hepatitis C-affected; a bill that called for a judgement by the High Court of Justice of Galicia that forced Sergas to dispense without further delay the drugs for hepatitis C to all internal persons in the Greek prisons. And we also ask that a coordinated system be established between Sergas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u259	Please, it's very disturbing who's in the use of the word. Please, please keep quiet, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u260	He said we also demanded that a coordinated system be established between Sergas and the General Directorate for Prison Institutions, which would enable the effective implementation of the provisions of the plan for the approach of hepatitis C. On that occasion the People's Party voted against, following in their line of insensitivity with the pain of the people, in their heartline in the face of suffering, because the decisions they make, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, have consequences; they have consequences and cause suffering, and what is very serious, cause also death. That's how hard it is to say, but they cause people to die. And today, in this new first plenary session, in this new session, we bring it back here because the claims remain fully effective. Nothing changed; in any case, what he did was to get worse. The initiative aims to be rectified by the People's Party. We believe it is good and wise to correct it; we ask it to correct it. You can no longer fix the damage caused to many people, nor can you solve the people who have been left on the road, but what you can do is to avoid being more people who are still on the road. That's why we ask them to rectify, because there are still people who continue to die without being given the treatment against hepatitis C, which can cure them. A few days ago, the media were horrified by the bad news that in Teixeiro prison, a person was killed with liver problems, infected with hepatitis C, who was not receiving treatment. We also had news just a few days ago that the Prosecutor's Office denounced Junta for restricting hepatitis C drugs. The Prosecutor's Office, with his complaint from professionals, initiated an investigation, after which he decided to process the complaint before the courts, sees signs of crime in Sergas and alleged criminal responsibility for the death of hepatitis C patients because he refused them or did not eventually facilitate treatment for patients who ended up dying. We have also had and have knowledge of a decree by the Galician Superior Prosecutor's Office, dated December 17, 2015 – a consequence of informational diligences carried out at the instance of the Galician Platform for Hepatitis C-affected, which confirms, on the one hand, the high number of people arrested with hepatitis C in Galicia and that most of them are not being treated. It says textually that in Galician prison centers they are affected by the hepatitis C virus, on the day of 25 of 12, that is, a month ago, a total of 654 inmates, of which require the new drug treatment of triple therapy between 140 and 165. Despite medical reports, the Ministry of the Interior requires patients to be transferred to Madrid to access treatments, and those who do not access them do not receive them. It says another series of considerations, and point 3 states that, regardless of what the Trial Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia resolves, the fact is that prisoners in Galician prisons are entitled to health care, consisting of receiving the treatment of hepatitis C, like any other citizen of the Autonomous Community. I mean, he came to confirm what he had already said on May 20th. It recommends an exit to the judicial conflict between the Union and the State in the same direction as the judgement of the High Court of Justice of May, which obliged Sergas to take up the treatment, making the right to health prevail over economic interests or administrative conflicts. Also in this period of time, in these four months that have passed since we discussed this initiative, there is a communication from the valator of the people of December 9, where he communicates to the Gallaga Platform of Affected and Hepatitis C that the Health Council persists in its attitude not to send the required information in relation to its complaint; he complains that it had to do with the non-drug dispensation of the imprisoned population, even though we demand it on two occasions. This writing is December 9th. I mean, it's not only that the Board and Board are denying treatment, but they're denying the information required up to twice by the people's valet. The valet of the people also says, "For our band, we are obliged to remind the Council again of its duty to collaborate with the rapid clarification of the situation which it exposes us to in the complaint." I mean, if you have to accept the consequences of not forwarding that thank-you information, as all of you know. We also have information that there are heads of service from some Sergas hospitals that prevent them from being prescribed for treatment to prisoners who need it; information that has been put in the knowledge of the former Director General of Health Care, Mr. Ares Rico, without knowing what happened today, whether it obeys a personal decision of these heads of service or whether there is an instruction received; what we do know is that if you are insisting on not prescribing medication to these people. The argument put forward by the People's Party Member that there is a very high percentage of infected prisoners who refuse treatment also falls by its weight, because what is there is no interest on the part of the Ministry of the Interior, of Penitentiary Institutions, of their request for treatment or their acceptance. The Galician Hepatitis C-affected Platform designed an intervention plan for the Greek prisons, in contact with some of these prisons, tried to carry it out and whether or not it was obtained by Penitentiary Institutions under the excuse that there was a pilot plan in progress in Murcia. In other words, a plan made from Galicia for the reality of Galician prisons turns out that Madrid says no because theoretically there is a plan in Murcia, that in Galicia nothing is known of it or expected, with which it is evident that we need to deal with this issue again. There is a national plan for the approach of hepatitis C of the National Health System that points to the enormous incidence of disease in the imprisoned population of more than 20%, which identifies as a priority population the imprisoned population, especially the F2, F3 and F4 stages, and immediately treatment for those who are co-infected with both the hepatitis C virus and HIV. For any answer, at present only 2,8 % of the imprisoned population is receiving treatment, only 2,8 % of the infected captive population is receiving treatment despite being a priority population within that National Plan for Hepatitis C approach. Of course, we, from BNG, say they're not a second population, that they've lost their right to freedom but they can never lose their right to health. And we ask the People's Party here today not to persist in their cruelty, to rectify; it is not enough to put things on paper, they cannot hide behind theoretical competences to let things like this continue to happen. When the judge acts and determines that there was indeed criminal responsibility to let people die, to let people die infected by not having given them treatment, to arrive late with that treatment, what will happen at that time, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party?, to whom will they blame?, to former director general Mr. Rubial?, will former advisor Mrs. Mosquera?, will they blame him? You, if you persist in voting no again, you are also complicit and consensors of that situation; accomplices and consensors because, with your vote, you are denying that this Parliament can urge the German Government to meet the health needs of the imprisoned population and then ask who to claim.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u262	That is why I look forward to voting in favour of all the groups in this House, especially the vote in favour of the People's Party, because with that vote in favour you will be recognizing that you have been wrong in the past but that you do not persist in your mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u264	Thank you, Mr. President. Months and months of struggle by those affected by hepatitis C achieved the establishment of the Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C, approved at the Interim Council of the National Health System on 26 March 2015 and which entered into force on 1 April of the same year; as well as the strong government commitment that patients with F2, F3 and F4 fibrosis would have access to the last-generation treatments, whose cure rates are above 90% in a period of three to six months. Well, but it's a precept that's not being met, in civil life, not in its entirety either, but in prisons, at all, despite the fact that in prisons the rate of inmates affected is 13 times higher than that of the rest of the population, that is, 20% compared to about 1.6%. And looking at the plan, it says textually that "internals are a population of preferential action because they have a higher risk of transmission." According to the Spanish Prison Health Society, in prisons there is a high percentage of heroin addicts and risk practices are also carried out, such as tattoos and piercings without health control. However, according to data from the same company, the Spanish Prison Health Society, only 2.8% of the infected captive population of the entire state is being treated with new drugs, 2.8%; and specifically in Galicia – sign it to that organization – are only treated 10 of 750. In fact, only in Catalonia and Euskadi, with the health skills transferred, is the treatment being dispensed to all the imprisoned population that needs it. The problem lies essentially on one issue: who should bear the cost of the treatment of the imprisoned population, penitentiary institutions or autonomous communities? I think – and this is my criterion – that, in the face of doubt, the first is that we have to apply the treatment, and then we will see who pays. But the problem is being solved on the basis of purely economic criteria, and thus the principle of equity in the imprisoned population is being violated. On the other hand, there is a judgement of 20th of the 5th of the year 2015 of the High Court of Justice confirming the precautionary measure of the Compostela Judge that Sergas provides certain prisoners with treatment while the matter is being handled. He warns, regardless of the issue under discussion, that it is out of the question that the imprisoned population has the right to receive this medication. It is that the question of who is responsible for suffrage is absolutely secondary when we are faced with a health problem that is solved by a drug. The proposal for an agreement by Penitentiary Institutions for autonomous communities to take care of the treatments until it is legally settled who has to pay them has been progressively accepted by most of the autonomous communities, less in Galicia. This attitude of the Government of the Union obliges infected persons to accept the proposal of Penitentiary Institutions to be treated, but this implies their transfer to Madrid 2 and Madrid 5, which greatly increases the suffering of these people by moving them away from their families and their surroundings. Few rights, honourable Members, very few, are left to a person in prison, because he loses the right to freedom, but he is not robbed of the right to life and to health. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u265	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u266	Thank you, President. We're going to support this non-law proposal. At the end of 2014 his struggle began for those affected and affected by hepatitis C to access these new treatments, a struggle that ended not only as a struggle for his health but as a struggle for the health of all and all, not only those people affected by illness but also for society itself and for democracy itself, affected by a serious prognosis, as we have seen in this very House. In this very House these people suffered the contempt of the administration, were none and none in this Parliament, scorned and despised and even expelled and expelled on a day when, in addition, if they voted against providing treatment to these people, the popular bench decided that day to press the button not to give treatment to people, treatments that could improve their lives or even save them. To inflict so much pain was, moreover, incomprehensible when there were legal instruments, even many times from this rostrum, to start the production of generics and extend treatment in a much more cost-effective way to the Government itself, because that seemed to be the biggest concern of the central government. The Strategic Plan and the beginning of the prescription of treatments are triumphs of all those people who have not grown tired in that struggle and who continue to fight today also so that prisoners can have access to these treatments. Many and many of them are already cured, but others and others have stayed on their way. In the summer, you were warned – you were told here – by the leaders of the People's Party, and by the Government itself, that the prisoners and the prisoners were not receiving these treatments. 21% of the population in prison is suffering from hepatitis C. The percentage of patients receiving treatment in the State has already been reported here, which in Galicia is only 1.4%. They told them in September, we also told them here, and they voted against providing these treatments in the Health Commission and voted against it, and now also in the case of prisoners, articles 1, 2, 3, 7, 22 and 25 of the Charter of Human Rights, contravene Article 14 of the Constitution and 43, which refers to health protection, and voted against Articles 3, 6, 10, 12 and 46 of the General Health Act 14/1986. And it could continue, but they generally voted against the most elemental humanity and the most elementary attention to any human being who must have not a public office but another human being. The arrested persons remain in this situation, as has already been said here, despite the fact that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has already warned in May, before the dispute between the Galician Health Service and the Ministry of the Interior the collation of some particular case—he referred to that complaint but that it is extendable to all sick and ill patients of hepatitis, prisoners and prisoners who are likely to receive treatment by the Strategic Plan—he referred to their right to treatment—that there was no right that was superior to the right to health and that, while the person should pay them, the person had to receive such treatment; that is, Sergas had to provide treatment regardless of which he would soon claim it to the Ministry of the Interior. It is also quite striking the dispute between two administrations of the People's Party itself. Because this isn't some kind of dispute, we're talking about human rights, and as long as you agree, people die. However, since September, the Government has been ignoring the requirements of the People's Valedora, which has called them precisely to account for this matter. Since September, and we're practically in February, they don't listen to the people affected, neither to us, nor to the professionals, nor to the High Court of Justice, nor even to the People's Valedora. I hope you will now listen to that prosecutor's office, which tells you that – for the first time – you recognize that you are responsible for death at least three people while waiting for that treatment. We don't know what's going to happen to that trial, whether it's going to start or not, whether we're going to consider this demand. But we do know that the People's Party, with its vote, and the Government itself, with its vote, are responsible for this situation. And when there are human and economic means and they don't provide themselves, we speak not only – and we end already – of an omission of help, of neglect, but of a painful attitude, and we hope that they will be the courts, but also the citizenship that judges them by themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u268	Thank you, President, and thank you for your position. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the National Plan to Approach Hepatitis C of the National Health System collects in strategic line number 1 that internal persons in prison institutions would be considered as a priority population to receive treatment against viral hepatitis C, as a measure to prevent disease from spreading further; matter, ladies and gentlemen, that is not less if we talk about public health. But, in case this was little, it also collects that plan as a priority to be treated for co-infected, that is, the same person has the hepatitis C virus along with the HIV virus, something that between the imprisoned population is very common. In the Greek prisons we estimate – and I stress the estimate because we lack official data – that there will be about 850 people infected with hepatitis C virus, of which, according to the DA data, they would have to be receiving treatment between 140 and 165 people. But we're only sure, ladies and gentlemen - and this is very serious - that this treatment is taking three people, three people! Even though we estimate that in total there must be about 10 people who are receiving it. What we do know for sure is that a few days ago in a Welsh hospital, a prisoner from a Welsh prison, with severe hepatitis and a viral hepatitis C, died of a prison in which he was not being treated. We also know with complete certainty that on 30 September last in this House, the People's Parliamentary Group voted against a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in which we ask that treatment for viral hepatitis C be facilitated to the entire inmate population indicated by the hepatologists of the Sergas network. And that's what I'm going to emphasize: by the hepatologists of the Sergas network itself. That is exactly the same as today, four months later, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG once again asks for an initiative which, of course, we will support; and the same that has claimed them the valet of the people, the same as you ask them to listen, the same as you ask them for the Platform for Affected by the Hepatitis C of Galicia, and the same as the Association in Defense of Public Health, and the same as most of the hepatologists who carry these patients ask for, and the same as you have ordered, has ordered, justice, justice, and justice, ladies, that has made it very clear that all the imprisoned population has the right to receive treatment and that it cannot depend on economic issues. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the only reason that this prisoner died untreated is that neither the Ministry of the Interior nor the Gaga Health Council wanted to cost him. Curious!, curious being a Ministry of the Interior so pious, so pious, that it even conduces the Virgin. And it's also curious about a Health Council that has been going on since 2010 without billing this Ministry of the Interior for any action; that is, no care received by the imprisoned population, nor when you have to enter the Sergas network or when you have to use some specialized consultation of the Sergas network. Ladies and gentlemen, with that money, a lot of these treatments have already been financed. The defendant, indeed, is deprived of liberty, but not rights, not rights, nor, of course, condemned to death. So it's not acceptable for the People's Party governments to become executioners by denying them the treatment that could cure them. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no difference in access to treatment that heals, between the prisoners and the rest, but not among the prisoners themselves. And it's getting done.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u269	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u270	Because, look, ladies and gentlemen, if a person enters a Welsh prison and is already taking treatment, you continue to fund him through Sergas, but if he has to start treatment since he's in prison, then he's not funded by Sergas or the Ministry of the Interior, which indicates that he has to be transferred to Madrid, because there he is available for this treatment. I don't understand, ladies and gentlemen, why you can't move the pill and you have to shift the wrong, something much more costly, dangerous and costly. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this is a senset, this is a senset. You vote in favour of this initiative and let us end this injustice. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u271	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u272	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies. It is indeed the third time we have discussed this same initiative with the same text by three distinct parliamentary groups, and I, when I saw that it had been included again on the agenda, I suspected that we were going to talk here about the subject of the Prosecutor's Office and the famous investigation, and on that subject I just want to say three things: the first is that since the People's Parliamentary Group we respect the decisions of justice, the second is that today the Council told me that it did not receive any kind of notice, and the third is that we still have to pronounce the judge. Of course, here some vocier or vocier has already said, he ruled, the judicial decisions that will take place in the coming days. In the previous discussions of this same proposal I already referred to the special difficulties faced by the treatment of this group of sick people. And yes, Mrs. Prado, there is a very high refusal of treatment, there is a published study, which I told you on the last occasion, which is published in the Spanish Journal of Prison Health and signed by prison health doctors. There is indeed the coexistence of the AIDS virus and the toxicity of treatment. If we talk about legislation, the third article of the General Prison Act says that "it corresponds to the prison administration itself to ensure the life, integrity and health of the sick", and we also mention, then, the cooperation agreement signed in 1995 between the Ministry and the Health Council for health care to the internal population, prisoners. This agreement was extended until 2010, and since then there have been no further renewals of that agreement. Decree 190/96, which approves the Prison Regulation for the Development of Comprehensive Health Care of Prisoners, states that the financing of assistance will be made by the Prison Administration through the payment of allowances and that the pharmaceutical benefit will be effective by the Prison Administration, except for medicines for hospital use and pharmaceutical products that are not marketed in Spain. Although today – as I said to you since 2010 – there is no agreement available, Sergas, the Galician Health Service, continues to provide all the health care covered by that agreement, although Penitentiary Institutions are not assuming the cost of such assistance. The Galego Health Service provides the required health care for patients in prison with digestive pathologies, in the same way as for any other disease, including evaluation, treatment and follow-up of patients with chronic hepatitis C virus C. The Strategy Plan itself for the approach of hepatitis C in the National Health System defines that the indication of these treatments is the responsibility of the specialists in hepatology, but the administration will take place in the penal center itself, where the blood extractions necessary for proper monitoring of treatment are also performed. Any internal or internal who needs it is hospitalized in Sergas centers. The Galician Health Service serves and treats all the imprisoned population of hepatitis C that needs it and asks for it, and prescribes all the medication needed, just as for any other pathology. They're given all the medication they need during the hospital stay. The central government has to date in the general budgets of the year 16 allocated EUR 20 million for the treatment of this group of patients. With regard to the resolution of your initiative, I have to tell you that the judgement of the Supreme Court of Galicia of May 15 that you cited at the first point has already been met by the Council, administering treatment to all the sick who have resorted to the court and who have voluntarily accepted the treatment. I've already told you since that there was a judgment in Administrative Content No. 1 of Santiago giving the reason to Sergas, based on the jurisprudence of the Superior Court of Castile and León, that he had decided that the medication of hepatitis C is not for hospital use but for hospital dispensation, and it is his administration and his funding for the penitentiary institutions. In addition, a new judgement of the dispute of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia last week, of the 20th, comes to confirm the previous of the dispute, and gives the reason to Sergas against the Penitentiary Institutions. It recognizes the sentence that corresponds to the prison administration itself to ensure the life, integrity and health of the inmates, and therefore in principle would be the prison administration, not the National Health System, to whom the duty of health care to the inmates in prisons is attributed. He also acknowledges that medication is hospital dispensation rather than hospital use, which would lead to his administration by the various health services. It is the Penitentiary Institutions responsible for administering treatment to inmates and patients with hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u273	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u274	The Galician Health Service doesn't even have the data on the number of sick people that are currently in the various Greek prisons. The Council has diagnosed the inmates who went to the centers of our autonomous community, and has treated many of them, a lot more than you say. When treatment was initiated during hospital admission or in patients who entered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u275	Quiet, please. And that's it, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u276	Of course, with respect to the second point, we have no doubt, although the wording is not excessively correct in the form of insulating. And if you now accept a point-by-point vote, we would be willing to support it in order to speed up the collaboration between the two administrations for development of what is established in the framework of the national plan, so we know that Sergas is prepared for the benefit of those affected and affected. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u277	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u278	Well, it's really awesome. A government is subject to everything that Madrid says it turns out that it decides to plant itself just to act cruelly in front of a tremendously disadvantaged and unprotected collective. What a brave panda! You're brave, yes, sir. [[Applause]] They don't plant in the Ence, they don't plant in the policy of our savings, they don't plant in front of the policy of resources in general. But they're going to tell you that Galicia here doesn't have to pay or supply medicines to sick people who, if they don't get supplied, are going to die. Of course, you deserve a real prize. I, of course, am shocked. And there's one thing very clear: that the new generation of drugs to treat hepatitis C has made the discovery of all cruelty, with all clarity, how they can act against people who are sick. It's really awesome. They're violating the fundamental right to health protection. They are failing to comply with the approach plan for hepatitis C, the judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, Mr. Núñez Centeno. There's a sentence, and it's not enough – as you have said textually? – with respect to the sentences, they must be heard and fulfilled, they must be punished and performed. And the Council isn't doing it. Does the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice of Galicia say when he says textually that in Galician prisons they are affected by the hepatitis C virus, 654 inmates, that the benefit is effected by the transfer of inmates to Madrid and that those who are not transferred do not receive it? The superintendent of Justice in Galicia says that those who don't move to Madrid are not receiving treatment. How dare you here say they're receiving them? Of course, it's inconceivable. I regret that they do not provide information to the people's valet, that they allow heads of service not to prescribe treatments when the specialists determine it, I regret that Prison Institutions do not allow the Galician Platform to make a plan to inform inmates, so that they will fall once and for all the subject that they do not want access to treatment, but they do not want to be informed either. And I'm sorry that rectification isn't in the People's Party vocabulary. Because in this case – I told you before – rectification would mean recognizing that they were wrong, recognizing that the grinding you're having with people who have almost no capacity to defend themselves were willing to amend it. But far from that, you're only willing to be affected by the mistake, which, of course, is regrettable. I told you before: when justice acts in front of the prosecutor's demands, then I don't know who you're going to blame for. I guess once more to the stonework. But I told you before, and I repeat to you, you're accomplices and consensors of this situation, that there are treatments to cure and save people and that you're denying them. That's the real reality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Government of Galicia and the referral to the Galician Parliament of an agenda for strengthening the industrial sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u280	There were no amendments to this non-law proposal. Mr. Losada has the floor for his defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u281	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that, by attending the debate on the previous initiative, the official speech that is governed for all and that all citizens are equal is difficult to say. I always say, and the truth is, I almost always feel this way, that advances in the scientific knowledge of the Greek Government provide me with unforgettable moments. So until now, we moved on to arithmetic, we went from RIS3 to industry 4.0, and it's true that we now move on to geometry, from two dimensions to the third dimension, to topology, we move on to the circular economy of Counsellor Mato, which is to produce, recycle and reuse. In both, in both geometry and arithmetic, there is a fundamental factor, which is training and human capital, in both, on the two themes, both in industry 4.0 and in everything that has to do with that circular economy, which is also certainly fashionable, there are also abundant power points, there are also specialized consultants working on it, but by the way, it's nothing new. Listening to Mrs. Mato gave me the feeling that I was discovering penicillin, and it was called "traditional agricultural production mode." Maybe I know the vein of a professor of economic history, but it was called that. I don't know how much the consultants charge for the corresponding power point, but I insist that it was called "traditional agricultural production mode." This initiative here has to do with two fundamental issues, the first is the lack of planning on the part of the German Government, in this case in the industrial field, which is what I should take to myself. And this is serious in a situation of a certain institutional stability, or in which macroeconomic variables do not change significantly, is especially serious in a context like the current one, in which very important economic uncertainties are looming on the horizon, in terms of commodity prices, in terms of behavior of emerging economies and therefore demand. Finally, a number of factors that make the overall framework of action of the Economic and Industry Council – in the opinion of the Socialist Group and this voicer, very poor, not to say practically non-existent beyond advertising and propaganda – will undoubtedly be radically changed. We have the experience of the Strategic Plan 2010-2014. I was upset at some point in assessing the non-compliances, and I admit that I got tired, there came a moment when anyone who looked between reality and what they put on those papers was just coincidence. And, of course, it seems to me that it is important to take seriously, indeed, the economic context in which we move. And in the view of this group there are five fundamental issues that this industrial planning should take forward. By the way, nothing new. It is true that Minister Soria did not go through the paper, but it is true that the Government of Spain has made an agenda for the industrial recovery of Spain. The data is still not excessively positive, but it's true that the behavior of the Spanish ensemble is better than that of Galicia. And of course, the five elements in which I believe that the Welsh industry has to focus and that should be part of this fundamental skeleton are the following: The first is diversification, it's essential. There's an excessive sectoral concentration in three or four sectors, all of them, as much as we talk about aeronautics, industry 4.0, etc., mature industrial sectors and therefore need a different kind of industrial policy than would be new sectors, it's obvious. The second point is the size of companies. Clearly, the adaptation of new forms of industrial organization is much easier in companies of a certain size, and we are no longer talking about the process of internationalization or export. So these two questions, in my opinion, should be collected. The third question is the search for economies of scale and business cooperation, another essential element. It is true that in the experiences there is everything that would be Galicia's recent industrial economic history, but of course also in areas of innovation and internationalization that critical mass is fundamental, and therefore this would be the third point. The fourth point is the collection of foreign investments. We maintain that we should prioritize, above all, what means new investments and creation of new jobs. It is true that we do not reject at all, it would only be missing, the purchase of assets that already exist in the German business fabric, but I believe that the Greek Government should clearly prioritize and encourage the creation of new businesses, and essentially the creation of new jobs. And the fifth point, a point that up to now was out of the agenda of this council, because it wasn't of its competence and now it's already of its competence – I hope that now, at least, you have to recognize that it already forms or should be part of the agenda of this council – which are the working conditions. Because there is a general consensus that labour stability, a decent level of wages, first, favors a more active business organization and favors the adoption of innovation processes, and therefore promotes the efficiency of productive processes. I'm not making anything up, we repeat it here systematically, it's true that there's little success. I also understand that a party that drags operation Z is very reluctant to have the working conditions and the training of workers in its political agenda in the foreground, I understand it, but I think it would be convenient for them to reflect. And if it is true that both you and the Government of the People's Party who denounced the irregularities in the training courses of the previous Labour Council, it would be very good that this sensitivity to these irregularities had shifted to control irregularities in the pay and recruitment processes of workers. This is the general framework. Data I also want to give some, I suppose they have some importance. The advisor systematically says that the Welsh industry behaves better than that of the whole of Spain, which is radically false. We collected annual, monthly data. Of course, it's been months since the Korean industry behaved better. They are exactly those in which it rains a lot and energy production – which, as I am sure you all know, is included in the index of energy production – as it grows. But first, if we remove the energy variable, the behavior is systematically lower than the average of Spain. And the proof that the behavior of production is lower is that it's lower than job creation, or, better, job loss is higher than 25% of the job losses in industry since 2009 compared to just 20% in Spain as a whole. And I'm going back to the usual inputs in industrial politics, those elements of which nobody just spoke clearly about the People's Party. The first is undoubtedly physical capital. The latest data say that the investments of the Galician Union were reduced in Chapter VI by 35% in 2015 – I think we are talking about necessary infrastructures. The price of energy: this morning we were talking about discrimination against the Basque industry. The theme of industrial floor, which is the paradigmatic example of failure. I want to set an example that, in addition, let's say it geographically affects the province for which I was elected. On the one hand to Plisan, seven years without doing anything. Well they made the connection, it's true, with A-52, it's done. Of the rest, although I had to endure in the last 6th Commission that were working the machines, I suppose they're underground, because on the surface, nothing. And if not, I challenge whoever says they're working that please provide pictures, or we take a tour, which you prefer. But I insist that at the end of last week, nothing; among other things, because it is necessary to build the sewage treatment station and there is not even a project yet. But the best thing is not that, the best thing is that Mr. Feijóo and the corresponding advisors sold three days the Igape-Igvs agreement, of subsidies to the industrial floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u282	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u283	Well, I want to talk about the province of Pontevedra, which is the province that suffers most directly from the competition of the virtually free industrial floor of Portugal, and which, without any doubt, is the province that has a greater demand for industrial floor. Well, at that convention the percentage of Pontevedra province was a plot of 1,100 square meters – 1,100 square meters, they heard well, not 1,100,000 or 110,000, 1,100 square meters in the municipality of Silleda. All right, my partner Pablo García is from there, and I think he has every right to have industrial floor. But I insist that the offer of this agreement, which was at least, that I remember, two press rounds with the corresponding advisors and Mr Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u285	...–Filled, Mr President– was 0.5% of the offer in Pontevedra province, and I insist, 0.5%, 1,100 square meters, in Silleda. And in the face of this deficit of physical capital, we have human capital, and, back to the former, supported and maintained in time. And here I'm going to go to the cultural acquis of the Minister of Education and Culture: "on university and we cut scholarships" Yes, yes, I know you're very upset, but that's exactly how... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u286	Finish it, Mr. Losada. Thank you, Mr. Losada. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u287	...over university students and we cut scholarships. And I'm also sure that Mr Baron doesn't know what noble title I didn't think.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u288	Finish, finish, Mr. Losada. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u289	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u290	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u291	Well, Mr. Losada, it's not just the minister who bothers university students, it seems that the president of the Union is also concerned that the government of the state is in the hands of university students. You see this is a problem with formation, because an illiterate people are always easier to manipulate, and the People's Party is finding itself with the problem that in the Spanish state and Galicia people are no longer illiterate, they know how to read and write, they have access to the Internet and they're learning about all the falcatruadas that the People's Party governments are doing, so they're so nervous. On the other hand, Galicia was once again placed last December among the few communities in the state where the unemployment rate was highest, we no longer speak of EPA data, but registered unemployment, the same thing that happened in November. But in the last month of 2015 it was the community in which the most upsurge in the list of unemployed people, with 3,650 more, followed by Navarra, Cantabria and La Rioxa. Thus, Galicia closed 2015 with a total of 228,808 people without work. With regard to social security affiliations, Galicia reduced the number of contributors to 3,008 in December. For provinces, unemployment has increased in all provinces: in Coruña, 1,731 new unemployed persons; in Pontevedra, 1,466; in Lugo, 305 and in Ourense, 148. The recruitment data published by the Ministry show that only 7.4% of the 877.834 contracts entered into in Galicia during 2015 were undefined, compared to 92.6% of temporary contracts. Data is worse than the average state. By sectors, by analyzing unemployment, we also see that construction has been where it has increased, with 2,095 new unemployed people, followed by industry, with 1,318, agriculture and fisheries with 459, and services with 114. Moreover, the number of self-employed people fell by 0.1% in Galicia in 2015 compared to the previous year. While in the state the average was an increase of 1.3%. It is clear, therefore, that the economy of Greece is increasingly diverging from the economy of the state and the economy of Europe, with a lower growth and the continuing loss of jobs and population, essentially young people. That's why we're going to give our vote in favour of this non-law proposal, since it's imperative that the Greek Government perform its functions and put into practice all the propaganda that's been practicing for years. It is urgent for the Government of Greece to present a reindustrialization plan for Galicia that takes into account the challenges contained in RIS3, to reduce the average size of businesses, since more than 95% of the companies in Greece are micropemes, which conditions their ability to absorb knowledge and transfer to the market of new innovations. Low traction capacity by the private sector in the field of innovation and knowledge. A sectoral structure characterized by a relative specialisation in sectors of medium or low technological intensity. Lack of correlation between the most competitive and innovative activities at the international level and the productive structure of Galicia, and, like not, brain drain. But also the strengths contained in the RIS3, which are like the central protagonist of universities, like Welsh agents in R & D+i support programs, even though this knowledge is not being transferred to the market and to companies. And the specialization of knowledge-generating agents in health, fishing and marine crops vectors. A knowledge-based economy requires greater funding for the Greek universities in a new economic plan 2016-2020, which allows them to develop research and innovation. Sectors such as wood, which constitutes one of the fundamental sectors of the Greek economy, since it represents more than 4% of the gross domestic product, call for the support of the Union to be unsuccessful. It is an under-exploited sector which has approximately 80% of the production of the first processing industry outside Galicia and 90% of the Galician sector consists of small businesses with limited capacity. Another sector that seems not to be present in the future plans of the council is the dairy sector. In contrast to the dynamism of the producer sector, it highlights the extreme weakness of the dairy industry in Galicia and the lack of support from Joina to the sector, as Galicia produces about 40% of state milk, but the dairy industry accounts for less than 10% of state production. We will vote in favour of this non-law proposal because Galicia needs an industrial development plan that complements the closure of the productive cycles in Galicia and increases the value added in basic sectors for our economy, such as milk, paper, granite, furniture, fishing, seafood, textile, preserves... We have wealth, but we have a bad government, that's the conclusion. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u293	Good night, everyone. Despite the unfortunate words of the PSOE spokesperson over the past few days about the possibility of some Members of this House to talk about things that are not their city, although they are from the same province, today our group, in coherence with what we think, will support the initiative it presents, and therefore we do not hold a grudge against it, even if we do not agree. The initiative that we present will always share it and when some questions are taken into account. And the initiative speaks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u294	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u295	I think you all regret that I'm not the President of the House. [[Laughter]] In any case, the initiative we are considering is secondary, but given that what we are talking about here is to set up a strategy or a program, and above all those issues that must be addressed. And we believe that – as we always defend – it is good for us to look at these initiatives – without wanting to teach anyone how things are done, because everyone does things as they do, and this is done correctly – the need for the social partners to participate in this initiative. Because, at the end of the day, we may be articulating how they approach the industry in this country that is EUR 1,500 million, which seems to come out of Europe, and that in the end they are going to be the opposite of what we want. Because we all live, for example, in the industrial processing sector of primary products such as approaches to the Union are used to relocate companies. And so when we talk about internationalization, what we don't want to do is that our companies, with the help of the Union, end up producing outside our country, as is happening in the canteens or how it's going on in the automotive sector. And if we have to talk about where we believe that things can be done well enough to recover the industrial fabric of this country, we are saying that in this country there are hundreds of industries that are not producing because a business decision has decided to move their production elsewhere. And that, therefore, this country has to bet on this collaborative economy, on cooperation and on being able to put into operation industries that could today be producing as good production and giving jobs, and that they simply don't do it not because they were not profitable, but simply because the matrix industry, at its time, decided to move that production elsewhere. We would not agree that investment in Europe is to promote Industry 4.0 or, as we hear in this House, worker 4.0. Because we still don't know what the concept of worker 4.0 is, but everything means or seems to mean that it has to do with that worker without rights and low wages. We believe – as we have seen here – that one of the problems of the Welsh industry has to do with the model of economic growth, with that depression because of the inability of domestic consumption, because the workers in this country do not have the capacity to consume, by the continuous cuts in research, development and innovation, by the credit restriction. I think we also need to take into account articulating public credit mechanisms for industries that today are drowning their credit lines, especially when starting business or also when having a circulator that allows them to go out on a day-to-day basis. Therefore, we, being absolutely in agreement with this initiative, believe that the initiative has a danger, and that when we are talking about consensus, we are not faced with a government that consents, nor do we take into account the collective of this country that is wishing to change the models and provide ideas for us to get out of the well to which Troika's policies have led us, and above all in a sector such as industry, which, as has been said well, has lost 30% of its employment and which, in addition, is seriously at risk of continuing on a decline that will only allow this country to sustain itself with the energy and automotive industry. I therefore agree with the rapporteur of the initiative in the need to diversify and, above all, to encourage the transforming industry in this country of those products of which we are, of course, power and which are attacked by the People's Party. So our support for the initiative and we hope that the People's Party will understand that what we are asking for is only among all of us being able to make the approach as best possible and not on the basis of what a majority imposes. Nothing else and good night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u296	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u297	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are presented with a non-legislative proposal by the Socialist Group to urge the creation of an agenda for strengthening the industrial sector in Galicia, which would be planning. In fact, he makes a proposal in which the financing of this agenda is part of an investment plan of the European Commission, known as the Juncker Plan, which we have already discussed also on repeated occasions on this plan; in which I believe that there are limitations on it, limitations on the part of both the Government of the State, which, well, of the 53,000 million euros, supposedly would mobilize this plan to Galicia its share, not even proportional to industrial weight or population, since it would be 3.5%. And there is also a clear scurantism on the part of the Greek Government about what actions and how this co-financing of these initiatives will be. That question which we have also debated and which is important, since it is the method proposed by Mr Losada to finance this strengthening agenda for the industrial sector in Galicia. Because it is true that we have a lot of plans: we put RIS3, Industry 4.0, on repeated occasions debated but without a knowledge of which is exactly the financing needed for Galicia's industrial development. We know the data about the industrial situation, and they were also exposed by the spokesmen and the spokesperson who preceded me. That loss of more than 50,000 jobs since Mr Feijóo is president - industrial jobs, I mean - which shows a gradual dismantling of the industrial sector in Galicia. Indeed, from the textile sector itself to sectors like the naval – on repeated occasions also discussed in this Parliament – they have clearly suffered this process of progressive deindustrialization in these seven years. That is why we consider it important to establish an agenda that goes beyond what was the Galician Strategic Plan for the period 2010-2014 Horizon 2020, which has also been mentioned, of which there is no evaluation, clear counter-indicators. In any case, what we can evaluate is that all the forecasts that were made economically in that plan failed, i.e., that the actions that should result from these economic forecasts we understand that they were or were not carried out, or in many cases their evaluation is negative. The Galician Strategic Plan 2015-2020 was also presented on several occasions, by the Government of Greece, and we don't know whether 2020 or 2025, but some horizon will be. And we also don't know what the agents involved in the elaboration themselves are; what we have of course is that the German Parliament has not been invited, or at least not the opposition groups. So in this agenda, what we are proposing is that it be debated and modified in Parliament, that is, in this House, it seems a good starting point for us to be able to talk about consensus on which are the strategic lines for the Welsh industry; industry that – as we say – needs funding, but essentially also needs a government that has political strategy. For these reasons we will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u298	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u299	Thank you, President. Noraboa. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative has already been rejected in Commission 6a, something similar has also brought Mrs Martínez, in this case in a question to the President. But it's true that when it came to the Commission then we still didn't have the positive data on the German industrial sector, which we do know today. As for the industrial production index, it must be said that until November there was an increase of almost four points, placing Galicia as the fourth best-behaving community, seven tenths above the state average. It has to be said that they have improved and increased consumer and equipment goods, also intermediate goods; however, Mr. Losada, the data I have, which corresponds to the Galego Institute of Statistics, what they tell us is that, precisely, there has been a fall in energy production due, precisely, to what you said: the smaller rains. As for exports, it must be said that between January and November, exports from Greece increased by 5.4 % over the same period of the previous year, compared to an average state of 4.3%, up to over 17,394 million. It is this data that places us as the best in Galicia's export history; of course, it is a merit of the Greek companies, but that they count on the support of the Galician Union through the Strategy of Internationalisation of the Galician company 2020. Investment in R & D is growing again in Galicia, in fact Galicia is the third community with a higher increase in R & D spending, with a rise of 1.8 in comparison to a state average which is projected to decrease by 1.5. Logically, ladies and gentlemen, this positive evolution has its impact on employment, Galicia closed 2015 with 23.10.10 unemployed less than a year ago, a drop of 9.17%, a decrease of 1.2 points above the rest of the state, which decreases 7.9. We've had more than two years of consecutive landings on registered unemployment. I understand that those who consider this evolution to be the result of good luck or because of external variables are unable to recognize that they are fruit of planning this Government. And on the contrary, I also understand that those who believe that it was bad luck that the economy had destroyed jobs, that it was in recession, that there was inflation, that there was a loss of competitiveness or that there was an uncontrolled deficit, because they do not recognize that plan. I understand even, I understand that if you think this was all bad luck, you think the increase in the industrial or export production index is also a matter of chance. But I do not understand that once again the Socialist Group, with the support, in addition, of the rest of the members of the opposition, overlooks the existence of the Competitiveness Agenda of Galicia-Industry 4.0, which was presented in this House precisely. I also don't understand that you forget that this roadmap was born from the proximity of the Galician companies, the clusters, the technology centers and other economic agents in our country. More than 120 agents participated in this agenda. This Industry 4.0, which is very funny to you, is a model that is not going back and on what depends that Galician companies can compete successfully in international markets. Through this schedule we bet on fixing the industrial fabric in Galicia, strengthening it and making it the engine of growth, because it is also the sector that exerts the most influence on job creation, and also of more quality. Apart from this, it obviously goes with budgeting. The budget of the board has increased by 20 % compared to 2015, 445 million, of which 60 million euros are to advance in Industry 4.0, which will allow more than 155 million to be mobilised. I would like to highlight the important impetus that is being given this year to investments, especially those of an industrial nature, through lines and grants in depth lost and through lines, too, for the collapse of industrial soil. Aid lines, as I was remembering; regional incentives that are from the Government of the State, but that we evaluate for projects over EUR 900,000; Igape's business investments, which have 12 million for investments from 50,000 to 900,000; or investments by entrepreneurs, which count 3.7 million, which are for those ranging from 25,000 to 500,000. Direct and participatory loans are also enhanced...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u300	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u301	...through the Igape itself, with funds from the European Investment Bank or with the Jeremiah funds, the venture capital or participatory loans of XesGalice. It is very important to support the internationalisation of the Greek industry, through programmes with more than EUR 9.5 million to facilitate the presence of companies in foreign markets, and the search for new business opportunities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what you are looking for is to strengthen companies to grow and create jobs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u302	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u303	I understand you're going to vote against, I'm a little naive. It seemed to me that there was some intellectual concern about the noble title of the minister of education; it's exactly Claret's IX Baron. I'm saying it because I've heard a certain noise like that. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, Mr. Trenor, I'm not grateful for Industry 4.0, I'm glad to hear about Industry 4.0 from the Industry advisor in a country that dedicates to R+D+i 0.86% of its gross domestic product. That makes me funny. By the way, to me and everyone who knows something about research and innovation, I'm not alone; to me and to those who know something about research and innovation. Look, the industrial sector doesn't deal with powerpoints and propaganda, it doesn't deal with external consulting. The last one, you talked about loans. It's a shame when he talks about the Igape and the increase in the budget that he doesn't also talk about the levels of execution. I know we've been given a sort of public accounting on multi-year investments, which seems like there's only one year's investment for several years, and there's no budget every year, because otherwise it would be irrelevant in terms of execution, because it's pure and simply whispering. I think it's that easy. I mean, if they were executed, they'd be executed, because if they jumped. It doesn't matter whether they're inter-annual or annual. So these kinds of economy applied to incompetence, because I think they're regular. In fact, we are talking about these new industrial sectors. Look, I'm going to tell you about one that directly affects the city in which I live, of which, of course, all Members of the province of Pontevedra, including the autonomous community, can speak. The topic of biotechnology, a theme that appears as a priority in the 2010-2014 Strategic Plan, of course in Industry 4.0, etc. There is a Biomedical Research Institute at the University of Vigo, which, in theory, would affect education, industry and health councils. You're literally going to close, you're going to close because the public contribution of the Galician Union has been reduced to zero. So it's very easy to write in the "priority sectors" powerpoints, I don't care if it's aeronautics, whether it's biotechnology or whatever, then what they need is budgets, and they need to be run, in addition, Mr Trenor, as you well know. And I, of course, when I speak of an industrialization agenda, I speak of course... the participation of social agents seems to me a very interesting contribution and, of course, of this Parliament, because I want to remind you that we are still waiting, at least for the opposition groups, for the projects that have been presented to Plan Juncker's summons. We're presenting for the degree of development of industrial projects linked to the wind competition, which is only six years ago. So, can you really come here and tell us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u305	...which opened up the participation to whom I don't know? Listen, don't you think the participation is so open and between 120 economic and social agents in this autonomous community, the opposition groups in the Galician Parliament should not have anything to say? You don't think it's reasonable, exactly the same as strengthening Industry 4.0 with an effort...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u306	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u307	...in R+D+i, how would it correspond? Well, Mr. Trenor, that's what I'm talking about. What I'm not talking about is the last scandalous summons from the Igape, who has cross-armed people without giving him work in their offices and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u308	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u309	...calls audits to external consultants...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u310	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u311	...to find business opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u312	Time's up. Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u313	We know the business for whom, Mr. Trenor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u314	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of gender equality and violence and the demands to be made by the central government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u315	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u316	For the defense of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u317	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. They're going to allow me to begin by greeting the viewers of the Telexornal will be, because the reason for this debate at this time is to open this telexornal with this very interesting theme, such as gender violence. But jokes aside, ladies and gentlemen, we have a terrible problem: machismo continues to grow violently. While the rulings of the People's Party, with the indolence and the sovereignty that characterizes them, they look to the other side. In addition, when we introduced the socialist opposition, we raised these debates, the People's Party accuses us of wanting to put the dead in their head. And what is even worse, when we demand the implementation and development of the laws we count on to combat gender-based violence – by the way, all of them made by progressive governments – the People's Party systematically votes against. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, since the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we will not tire of fighting, nor will we tire of asking ourselves and asking ourselves, would the Government do the same if the more than 800 people who have killed Machism since 2003 had killed them, for example, a virus? Would the Government do the same? Or would the Government show the same indolence if the 10 or 11 victims, women killed by machismo since January 1st, had killed them with terrorism? Do you not believe, ladies and gentlemen, that any government in the face of that number of victims would have already formed a Cabinet of crises and would be all over the country – what do I say all over the country! –, all of Europe! –, in a situation or in a state of alarm? What's going on? Maybe women's lives matter less? Or does the Government think this violence is not important, which is a domestic issue? Terrible mistake, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, terrible mistake! It is clear that this is a problem of our society, which is a problem of all of us and of course it is a problem of all governments. So even though Mr. Rueda, in charge of equality of the Union's government, again accuses us of bringing the dead to the head, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we're going to talk again about the women killed by macho terrorism. I know that for the People's Party stands this issue is not comfortable, because you're very macho. And I say it – yes, yes! – I say it by looking at their daily behavior. [[Murmurs.]] And we have a very recent and very clear example, very clear: the intolerable and outrageous masquerading attitude of Mr Baltar. [[Applause]] And we have – yes! – another example of the People's Party's Machism: the response that Mr. Feijóo gave to that situation, the most responsible of the party, and the response given by the whole of the People's Party, and by all of you, ladies of the People's Party. But although the PP does not like it, even though Mr Feijóo does not seem to be an important enough issue to debate it in a control session, we will continue to talk about the violence of the macho, and we will continue to talk about the measures that we urgently need to take in this matter. And today we are going to put to the vote more than twelve measures in relation to gender-based violence, which should develop the governments of the state and the governments of the Union. And the first step, ladies and gentlemen, as is logical, is budgeting. It is necessary to recover budgets for equality to levels before the crisis. Yes, I know that while the Socialists ensure that the People's Party has cut off, and much, the budget for equality, from the PP they deny it saying it's not true, that they have raised it. So let's see what they say from outside, not one of them or another; what they tell us from the United Nations, who through the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, from CEDAW, ensures that the budgets for equality in Spain have collapsed, and in addition to the state, where they fell by 50 percent, as well as in the autonomous communities, where they fell by 32 percent. We must also enhance the role of the municipalities in this matter, because it is the administration closest to citizenship, no doubt the most appropriate to detect, detect, ladies and gentlemen, and, of course, combat this problem. But the People's Party goes backwards, and it turns out that it intends to take out those powers. Of course, the fact that money from the European Social Fund is not a good idea for CIMs is not a good idea, because it requires that data that is kept confidential to these cases. And at the CIM they call him police papers, instead of prints. Let's take a look at that. We also call on this initiative to establish a coordination unit against gender-based violence in Galicia, to unify actions throughout the territory and, of course, at all levels and services involved. We call for specific training in equality, but also in affective-sexual education and also in the prevention of violence and in all educational stages. We need, ladies and gentlemen, more specific cases of violence. Yes, the truth is that they refuse those judgments much less cases than those of mixed trials. But we also need to strengthen the training of justice personnel involved in gender-based violence. And we must generalize the figure of the personalized judicial escort. It is also urgent to develop protocols to follow up cases where women decide to withdraw the complaint. We need to know what's going on. So with a special plan, and this is urgent and, of course, essential, a special plan to repair the damage to the minors involved, which are, ladies and gentlemen, the great harm. And again we are going to ask that the recommendations of CEDAW and the Istanbul Convention be implemented, which I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, which has been ratified by Spain. By the way, tomorrow there are several initiatives in which we will have the opportunity to speak about this convention and the recommendations of this convention with more scrutiny. Ladies and gentlemen, the 25th day has passed, but this House has to manifest every day that passes, every day of the year, its repulsiveness against all manifestations of violence. You have to redouble your commitment to the victims. And, of course, you have to show zero tolerance with batterers. This House, Your Honor, has to raise awareness and also serve to raise awareness of society. Although I wonder how we are going to raise awareness of the Galician society against machismo when we have a president, Mr. Feijóo himself, who did not even deserve to help those four marishers who were victims of gender-based violence who desperately asked for help. How, ladies? And how we're going to raise awareness of Galician society if the president of the board doesn't consider Machism a subject that's important enough for a control session of this House. As we are going to raise awareness of Galician citizenship, if the People's Group will surely vote again against all the measures we call for in this initiative to combat gender-based violence. Please, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope this initiative will go off unanimously with this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u318	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u319	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today I have the responsibility to defend, from this first intervention in this House of the Greek Parliament, the right of women to the protection of their lives and of the loved ones in the face of male violence. And before I started, if I wanted to show my rejection of what happened yesterday in Basquedi, where we have two victims of this violence and where a girl is in a very serious state. In this explanatory statement of the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group there are two aspects that I cannot but mention. First, the absence of any allusion to what happens in Galicia in relation to the topic of violence. Secondly, concealment of the existence of Law 11/2007 of 27 July for the prevention and comprehensive treatment of gender-based violence, adopted by the Greek Parliament. We underline these aspects because we understand that our national reality causes this and other issues to be dealt with from the closest perspective, and beyond that because it is an approach to this very serious issue that affects, and must be carried out as far as possible from sectarianism. Certainly I, and in my name the Cerna Group, believe that all of us here share that violence against women is an attack on human rights, it's something that goes beyond their health, because machismo is terrorism. Our country occupies a sadly relevant place in the ranking of feminicides. In 2015 we held the third position, behind Andalusia and Valencia. However, we must underline that the data concerning Galicia are certainly made up, since the two girls killed in Moraña were not counted, despite the fact that Law 11/2007 of July 27, prescribes that they should be taken into account in this macabre and unfortunate accounting. And here's a question, why didn't the German Government count them in their report? Another aspect to consider in this analysis is the number of complaints, because it gives us information on the evolution of this serious problem. According to the IGE statistics, which we have data since the year 2007, we accounted for 5,181 complaints in that year, reaching a peak in 2009 of 6,068 cases; in 2011 5,153; in 2013 5,114, and in 2014 5,209. Here's these cold numbers. But reality is, of course, a lot more serious. For all of us, it is known that there is a hidden violence, because only a small percentage is denounced. Lack of advice and corrective information to rectify these complaints. To ensure that the victims are properly advised is something that depends only on the German Government, and more specifically on the President, Mr Núñez Feijóo, who is not unfortunately present today. I don't know, something you'll have to do or something you'll have to say to this. [[Murmurs.]] And also -- that's also work -- it's ensuring that your economic status or your legal system doesn't force you not to report or withdraw your complaint. The UN demands, in the face of the increase in the number of children killed by its parents, more appropriate training for professionals involved in these judicial processes. We want to put emphasis on the involution of the situation of women in society by increasing cases of violence among adolescents, in a context of sexist models that reproduce mainly through audiovisual media with new technologies. We believe that it is in the educational field where we should provide the student with content that promotes gender equality, which promotes sensitivity against gender-based violence, because according to statistics, and according to Law 11/2007, of July 27, a part of the student is the victim or potential victim of gender-based violence in his home. We emphasize the importance of acting on the media in the way of transmitting news about macho aggressions or macho killings, and also about some sexist behaviors in advertising and programming on television and radio, paying particular attention to so-called childish programs. In the field of employment, companies completely violate the rights to specialized assistance of their workers. And finally, I want to communicate our support for the non-law proposal even if this amendment is not accepted. We have addition amendments. First, urge the German Parliament to urge the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u320	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u321	...to comply with and enforce the law, the law of Galicia, Law 11/2007, of July 27, for the comprehensive prevention and treatment of gender-based violence. To ensure that the economic condition of the victims does not prevent them from reporting an assault. Ensure personalized and free counselling to the victim. To ensure economic security that all measures adopted by this Parliament to eradicate violence against men are effective. Provide a student with content that fosters respect and gender equality. That the German Government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u322	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u323	...according to the Fegamp training courses for local government and local police workers, in particular those who are closest to them or have contact with potential victims or victims, about gender equality and gender violence. And two. Parliament calls on the Government of the State to ensure that officials and officials of the State, in particular those who are most directly in contact with potential victims or victims, such as...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u324	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u325	...people have a positive assessment in specific training on gender equality and gender violence, as well as awareness-raising on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u327	Thank you, President. Good morning to talk about equality. Today she's age-old, Angela Davis. We start the year as we end the year, with more women killed. A situation of normality that the truth regrets; a situation that, as we have already spoken on other occasions, is protected by a social model that nourishes the legal and political measures that do not punish discrimination, but rather foster it and serve as culture broth. I don't share a certain part of the text of his exhibition because the triumphs in the field of equality are not of any government, they are the triumphs of the feminists who fought for them, of those who fought in the Republic, of those who fought during the war, of those who fought during the dictatorship and of those who have been on the streets fighting for our rights. However, we are obviously going to support the initiative, and we agree that steps must be taken to address this situation because repression and the situation is very serious for women's rights and freedoms. The truth is, I think this situation is getting worse and worse, and it's probably no match since the year 78. It has an initiative precisely tomorrow - and we will talk about that - on the failure of the Government to comply in the field of equality which denounces precisely the convention on the elimination of inequality and all forms of discrimination between women and men of the United Nations, CEDAW. Because the central government's policies in this case, as well as those of self-governments, in this case Galicia's - it says the report itself, and we know it because we see it every day - have accentuated precisely that inequality. It wasn't much of a habit to hear from the People's Party about equality of cross-policies. I would like to talk about this because I think that when we talked about transversal policies – they have recently abandoned this position – we did not know or knew what transversal policies were, if not, it is impossible to talk about transversal policies with these budgets that we have just approved. Equality does not refer only to equal play – worth redundancy – or to victims of gender-based violence, who are already really, frankly demanding. When we vote instead of saving and expanding the family orientation centres, as we saw the other day in the Health Commission, we are promoting that cultured broth where violence grows, which grows from inequality. Also when you vote against or when you are law-enforcement in the field of education, so that there are such centres that are segregated by sex, or even when you delete the subjects that you educate on an equal basis. As when budgets are eliminated in social services or in health services or in services that women use most or in women's jobs, or when jobs are cut off, or when wage breaks are made clear, or when employment policies or laws are adopted that increase or increase the wage divide and the working precariousness of women. Some or some Members may still think that all this is isolated issues and that one can click the button and one can vote and one can legislate considering that it will not affect anything as women are, which is not culture caldron for inequality and therefore is not culture caldron for gender violence. But it's not like that. As the violence between our girls and our boys continues to grow, there is no policy on tangible equality or tangible education that tries to curb this situation. While we have worrying data such as those given by the General Council of the Judiciary, according to which 33% of the protection orders in Galicia are being denied, there is no measure to try to strengthen those judges, which seeks to analyze why this is the situation. However, we ask women to report. And you have to, ladies and gentlemen. But they have to do it when they have the means to do it. Isn't it a fallacy to tell the victims themselves that they report if when they arrive they don't find real protection measures? Victims will really be protected when after reporting they've secured a housing, they've secured a maintenance, a livelihood, something to live on, an allowance if they don't have a job...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u328	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u329	...and make sure that they're protected, advised at all times and that they're not going to be alone at any time. This is not the case today, therefore, one cannot speak of real equality and therefore you must be aware – and I end already – that all this is the culture of gender-based violence today and tomorrow. So obviously we are going to vote in favour of this non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u330	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u331	Thank you, President. Good night. To begin with, we are going to support this initiative from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. But I would like – with all due respect and I believe that the majority agreement on this subject that I have with Mrs Acuña – is simply to remind you that it is not the governments that approve a law, it is the parliaments. And indeed, the Congress of Deputies passed a law in 2004, indeed a draft tabled by a socialist government. But that law was enriched, not by the honourable Members who were present there – which was their obligation – but by many women's movements, which I am aware of, in addition, that you know perfectly that they have already worked on the draft itself and by the amendments which were later introduced that improved the text; and surely many years later, ten years later, indeed, or twelve years later – do you know exactly that you have worked on the draft and that we value that should be introduced at this time? I think it's an important question, because also the law of Galicia was passed by this House, although it had been its draft and had been made by a coalition government with the contributions of many women's collectives, of many movements, and of the Galician Feminist Movement. In fact, surely at this moment it will have to be amended, a lot of reforms will have to be introduced so that a parliament, the Greek Parliament, with the contributions of women, with the contributions of the feminist movement, will improve these two texts which at this time mark the scope that regulates gender violence, and of those that, at least, we can say that they are not being met. Surely their eves are part of the analysis that we have to do in the commission to study these laws, to which we belong all the groups that we are in this House and where we hear the professionals and professionals who work every day on the issue of gender equality and violence as they tell us about the eves themselves of the normative frameworks and also of non-compliances. Indeed, we agree, Mrs Acuña: a budgetary failure. You spoke of the funds for equality, that reduction of 50% of the funds for equality of the Government of Madrid. If we went and looked from the prism of gender-based violence, 27% would be reduced. I mean, it's a reality that Mr. Rajoy's Government has reduced the funds devoted to the fight against gender violence, both in prevention and in treatment, during the four years of the previous legislation. You put a lot of duties on the Government of Madrid on this initiative. We hope that the funds will be recovered and increased. But if we also analyze the programs in Galicia, budgeting remains unchanged with regard to gender-based violence, clearly reducing itself in the field of equality, and there are no new programmes relevant in the field of gender-based violence by the Government of Greece in the last seven years. After this year, of the year 2015, with many women killed, nothing. We hope that tomorrow the vice president himself will explain what measures they will take in 2016. For many times we have brought to this House the need to modify programs that are operating in the field of justice and economics, such as the wage of freedom... I want to remember that right now, just in January, it is impossible to ask for it because its summons are closed. If even today, at such an hour as today, a woman wanted to ask for it, or tomorrow morning, she could not, because the order that regulates her summons has not yet been issued and therefore cannot be applied for. One fact: the psychological care programs have not been changed or changed, the programmes also for abusers, the childcare programs have not been modified, as Mrs Acuña has just explained, which I know – and, if not, that we are denied by the People's Party – are the same as seven years ago. We hope that in the so-called equality plan that we approve of the implementation by the Education Council there will be concrete actions and measures to be carried out in the education centres. We can see that in these seven years there has been no new programme regarding the treatment of gender-based violence or some conversions, such as the conversion of accompanying and mediation programmes. Therefore, the truth, almost as an assessment – and so will we also do to the vice president himself –: what will be done in 2016 in the face of the situation that was experienced in 2015? I really believe that there is a minimal awareness of this situation, along with Mrs Acuña...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u332	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u333	Obviously, if they were another kind of murder, the country would stop constantly; the country would stop. Here we're used to, used to, which is simply a sort of drip that lives almost always from the private sphere and we still can't get it to be a clear part of public policy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u334	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u335	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, or good night, everyone. Since this first intervention I wanted to condemn again, reject and give our full support to the families who have suffered and who suffer from macho violence. Our commitment, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is firm to continue to put in place measures to put an end to this social scourge. Today, Mrs. Acuña, you bring here a non-law proposition, the truth is that we either approve it or not, because every and every one of the measures you envisage, which are collected in it, are already being carried out by the Government of Galicia of the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]] But I also think it's not all worth it. Demagogy cannot be used to satisfy your party interests, as the opposition does, the cost of confusing, without doubt, the victims. Therefore, ethics lessons, Mrs. Acuña, I think of you, none. With reference to the points of your initiative, when you talk about cuts and increasing resources for gender violence, I mean it's the Government of the People's Party who has increased budgets, resources and services year after year since you have the responsibilities of government. You mention, if you like, the 313D Programme of Budgets on Gender Violence and you'll see that in 2009 it has something more than a million and a half euros, and if you review the year 16, it's almost four million euros. That is, between 2009 and 2015 budgets increased by 153%, and by reference to the year 16, 16% more than in 2015. Therefore, budgets for assistance to victims of gender-based violence have not been cut. With regard to services and resources – which has also been much talked about, it was the Government of the People's Party, which constituted the Local Entities Network against Gender Violence; it was what launched the Plan of local tables' dynamization with municipal alert and technical support networks for municipalities, as well as the mobile application for victims of violence; it was the Government of the People's Party who implemented the exercise of popular action in criminal prosecution proceedings in the event of death; it was a Government of the People's Party who launched the Comprehensive Plan of Education, Equality and Gender-based Security and Support Networks for Councils, as well as the mobile application for victims of violence; it was the Government of the People's Party who introduced the Local Entities Network of Local Entities against Gender Violence; it was the People's Party Government of the People's Party who launched the Comprehensive Education, Equality and Gender Violence Observatory of Gender Violence Violence Violence, which is currently developing the protocol of integral care for the victims, including, as you say, who, who are saying, who are taking three groups from central central central central the complaint the complaint the complaint the complaint the complaint the complaint the complaint the complaint; it was the popular groups; it was the People People People People People's the release of the release of the release of the release of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People People Party, which has has has has has made made made made made made made made made made as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as a used used used used used used used used used used used used used used used as as as as as as as as as as as as as as a used used used used used used used used used used used used used used used used as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as a as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as as areal . as areal .. as areal . as areal . as areal . asa Of course, the entire law of 2011, as stated here by the Group Member, is under way. As for the claiming of powers which you have not appointed here, but which, if you are on your own initiative, I mean that it was in this Parliament where the Law on urgent measures was passed, where all municipal powers are maintained, which increased budgets for municipalities by more than 35% this year, in aid and grants, for equality programmes, through various programmes such as conciliation, gender violence or also for women's information centres, of which we have also spoken about here. You speak of protecting the minor victims of gender-based violence – Galician Act 2011 already contemplated it – and it was again a government of the People's Party in the Government of the State that approved the Organic Law on the modification of the system of protection for children and adolescents, expanding the protection of minors in charge of the victim's women, as well as the Statute of the Victim of Crime, which visibilitys the victims and minors and guarantees them access to the various care services. As I'm finishing up, you're talking about a coordination unit. You know that it already exists, that it depends on the Government Delegation, with specific units in each sub-delegation in the four Greek provinces. As I want to finish and I don't have time to comment on all the points of your initiative, I mean that – I repeat again – this initiative does not bring anything new about measures, that all the measures are already set up by the Galician Union and that again I believe that Mrs. Acuña came here to make a fuss of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u337	...—ending, Madam President—unprecedented demagogy, which you have already used to us in the usual way. But I would like to reiterate that, for the sake of the consensus that fights against gender-based violence, we are willing to support its entire initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u338	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Parliamentary group responsible for the initiative. Ma'am, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u339	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I want to thank the groups for their support. In fact, there are two laws. And you can verify in history and it will remain for history that both laws have been enforced, promoted by progressive governments: a state law that has been approved by the rule of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, a socialist president, and an autonomous law that has been passed in the German Parliament, effectively with a progressive government composed of the Socialist Party of Galicia and more by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. As for the amendment, I don't know whether it's promoted by the Cerna Group or the Joint Group, of course we're going to accept it, because we understand that when it comes to gender violence, the essential thing is to add, consent, include, something that the People's Party has a hard time doing. Madam People's Party, everything is perfect, everything is already being done, but, look, our proposal actually puts a lot of duties on the State, because it is inspired by Cedap's recommendations, that committee for which everything is not done in Spain. Besides, everything's done, everything's fine, but, Madam, we've been 26 days this year and they've been murdered, we don't know how many, if 10, if 11 women, because we don't even count them right. But if you think a little bit, you'll realize, ladies, that the average is macabre, it's macabre, a woman every two days. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have P.P. gentlemen, demagogy... listen, look, you shake that pride because these deaths, Madam, occur in a report full of Cedaw repairs. If it hadn't been like that, we wouldn't have anything to say, but it's that those deaths are taking place in that context, in a context of strong criticism of the cuts and the unprecedented retreat that we have suffered in equality; by the way, when until now we've always walked forward. Look, I appreciate your vote in favour, but I'm also going to tell you one thing, it's not enough to vote in favour, then you have to do what you vote in this House, and we're going to be very vigilant...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u340	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u341	I'm glad, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you came out of that silence, because, look, it seems, they were silent, quiet, naked, tolerating...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u342	End, please, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u343	...–and finish – everything your group is doing in the field of equality. I'm glad to see you start talking. And I hope from now on they vote...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u344	You don't have the word anymore, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u345	...you are always in favour of all the initiatives here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u346	You don't have the word anymore. Thank you very much, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u347	...in relation to gender-based violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u348	As you were informed this morning, we are now substituting the Group's inquiry... yes, Mrs Oubina? [[Mrs. Oubina Solla asks for the floor.]] Did you accept the amendment from the Joint Group? [[Mrs. Oubina Solla speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you have the floor. What do you want?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u349	Let's see, we said that we were going to approve as a whole the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party Member...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u350	But what's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u351	That we're going to include the one that presented the Joint Group, that we're going to support it too; that is, that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u352	Well, all right, Mrs. Oubina. So we moved on to the interpellation. La Maria Concepción Burgo López and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the consequences of the current state and autonomic systems of scholarships for university students
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u353	To formulate the inquiry, by the author group, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u354	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, almost evening, ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. As you all know, and I'm sure they're defending us too, a rule of law has an obligation to put in place the necessary requirements and ways to achieve equity and equal opportunities among all citizens. This is true for all areas of life, but it's even more so for education. It's the state that has to lay the foundations for promoting and correcting social inequalities, and this in education is done by a policy of scholarships that meets the needs. That is how it is, this is the obligation of a rule of law, but unfortunately, at this time neither in Spain nor Galicia is ensuring the right to equal access to university education, and this right is not being guaranteed since the changes that have taken place – the so-called Wert Decrees – in the years 2012 and 2013, which do not only unfairly harden the requirements for obtaining a scholarship – both simply to pay the tuition as well as the supplementary scholarships – but that they continue to maintain too few income thresholds and leave out many low incomes. I remind your lordships that in order to obtain a scholarship, it is necessary to have a 5.5, and to obtain a supplementary scholarship, a 6.5; that is, a remarkable situation that the CRUE summarizes in its last report with these words: that the changes, the new stock exchange system, are causing a higher level of precariousness, uncertainty and exclusion. This is what the directors of the Spanish universities deduct. But all these changes also had a very remarkable effect on the Greek students, of course, not only the Spanish. On the one hand, the number of fellow students in the Ministry of Education in Galicia has fallen sharply. According to the data offered by universities, from the 2011-2012 course to today more than 7,000 fellows have stopped receiving their scholarship. And according to INE data, between 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, that is, a year earlier, about 9% of fellows have disappeared, they're not already in the Greek university system. So thousands of students couldn't get a scholarship of any kind. But, besides, those who had a scholarship, they came down hard from the middle counties. According to the report by the CRUE, the Spanish university in figures, 2013 to 2014, the average amount received by the German stock exchanges decreased by 21,32 % since the 2011-2012 course. And, according to the Government of the State's replies to Socialist Members in Congress, this reduction was of 24.3%; 844 euros less as an average receiving a German purse, the biggest fall of all Spanish communities. The average scholarship of a Greek student in 2012, Counsellor, was 3,476 euros. In the 2013-2014 course is EUR 2.632. Do you know how much the average scholarship was in 2004, ten years earlier? 2,703. That is to say, right now in the 2013-2014 course if you are being perceived by the Greek students less than was being perceived in the 2004-2005 course. This, Counselor, already summarizes the policy you're carrying on the bags. And in these figures, which are inescapable if you really want to defend equity and equal opportunities, Junta also has a responsibility; you have a responsibility because you do not want to oppose these measures in Madrid, oppose Mr Feijóo, even though we ask the Socialist Party on multiple occasions. He is guilty because he preferred to obey Madrid's orders, to allocate means, theoretically, as you said at the time, to alleviate the negative effects – that you already knew there would be – of the Wert decrees and put new scholarships in Galicia. At this moment he started, as always, a policy of advertising and propaganda, saying that the funds were growing for scholarships to the Galician university system. You know, Counselor, that that's not true. From 2009 to 2016 scholarship funds dropped by 23%. But that's not the worst, or much less, it's now around 3,180,000 euros in the budget. The worst thing, Counselor, is that this amount of 3,180,000 euros that appears in the budget in 480 of Program 422C, of that game, you don't run half; sometimes you run half, sometimes you run 45%. About half of this figure doesn't work, it's not going to be invested in scholarships, and this is taken away – and the data I have here, if you want it – from the executions of the budget, from the official papers that Fairy sends every December of each year. In this year 2015, we don't have that budget execution yet, but everything indicates that we are going along the same path, because, Counsellor, I don't know if you know – and I say it because you can't be aware at all – but you must know at least that your advisorship made this year 2015 three credit transfers, three credit changes, so that EUR 1,743,500, 45% of the investment of scholarship funds, were actually allocated, with a credit change, to the security of the ETEA of Vigo, the costs of cleaning schools and the operation of other schools – here I have the credit changes, if you require them. 45% of 2015 has already been allocated to other games; i.e., let's go back to it, advertising and propaganda. I believe, Counsellor, that at a time when we're going through, we're going through an important economic crisis, with very high unemployment rates, with economic problems in most of the Greek families, you have to explain how the Union does not invest or even the amount it appears in the budget. On the other hand, you set up scholarships that do not cover the consequences of Minister Wert's decrees, because they only cover the registration. You know perfectly well, Counselor, that registration is just one of the expenses that a university student has. The displacements, the change of residence, the material is also present. They are very important expenses on families, and above all on low incomes, which nobody assumes; that is, they have to take on families, because there is nothing to pay for that 6.5 that Wert asked for and that he asks the PP to get to a residential scholarship of 1,500 euros – which is also not very much –. In this way, Counsellor, you know that equity is not guaranteed, that many young people have been left along the way because they can't face university teaching, that there are many illusions and many life projects left, because the problem, when you don't get to university at a given time, is that the life project is ending, and that they're not coming for their own merits, not because they don't have the capacity, but because they don't have the resources. We're leaving out of the system many boys and girls. It's true that you with this policy are doing something that we repeat and that you know it's true: so you're making the university increasingly elite, because you can't get the lowest incomes. So, Counsellor, for all of this, we want to ask you what your valuation of everything you are going through with the Ministry's scholarships by Mr. Wert's decree; we want you to explain to us why it is not being carried out – with the needs that exist, and not being executed – the budget of scholarships and also if you think, after seeing all the results of this harmful policy of Wert and the little response of the Board, changing that policy, putting in place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u355	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u356	...–Finished– new lines of bags and modify the existing ones. How do you intend to do and fulfill your obligation, which is to ensure that there is equal access to university education? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u357	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u358	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Burgo, we're at a time when there's a lot of red lines being talked about, and I want to put here again a record of a red line that has this political formation and that has the Government of Galicia, and that red line is that no one is excluded from university education for economic reasons. We've said it on many occasions: from the Council, from the Galician Board, we've been working and we've made decisions to help that none of our college students are excluded from university education in Galicia for economic reasons. For this reason, the Greek Government understands that what is equity and what is equal opportunities for the Greek universities are going through different issues. First of all, they go through an approved funding plan; a funding plan that has been agreed upon with the universities, which has given them and which gives these institutions financial stability and what possibility they can develop their activities with rigor and with certainty over time. So also ensuring equality and equality of opportunity goes, secondly, by coordinating a university system where universities present an offer of appropriate, quality, varied and attractive qualifications, also specialized, so that students who take the degrees at our universities can enter the labour market. The university forms people, but also professional forms, and it is necessary that the academic offer is geared towards meeting the social demands and demands of the productive sectors we have in this country. So we also understand that equality and equality of opportunity for our university students goes, thirdly, through a commitment made by the Galician Council regarding university fees; university fees and scholarships complementary to the Ministry's own scholarships, to guarantee access to all students in the Greek university system; of course, regardless of their economic and social status. You're the truth that here you're putting in a series of data, you're proposing an interpretation of reality, which, as you say in a gentle way, is very biased, and I'd say that unwise. And we're going to present – I think – a series of data that to some extent assess this information. First of all, I would like to say that at the level – because you quote the state – of the state, of the Government of Spain, the last years have been years where there was a greater financial allocation for university scholarships. And I'm going to present you with a chart where very graphically we can see how the last years of the People's Party Government in Spain are the years of greater economic strength in the state's general budget for university scholarships. In particular, the last year of Zapatero – the year 2011 – there were 1,168 million for university scholarships, and in the last two budgets of the People's Party there were more than 1,400 million for university scholarships; with which, when it is said that there is a fall in the state's economic contribution to university scholarships, because it is really unwise that statement. Secondly, there are also some data that does not match. Something's missing here, no doubt. Using data from the SUG, from the universities themselves – which you and I understand have recognized their autonomy – there are data that I think are significant and are the following: between the course 2008 and 2009 there is a fall of the student in the university of Galicia, it goes in concrete to 67,639 students in the university of Greece in the course 2008-2009 to the current course, closed –to 2014-2015 – with 61,726 students; that is, around 6,000 students less, a fall of around 8,75 % of the student. However, the number of pupils in the German universities who have some Ministry scholarships goes from 15,601 students in 2008-2009 to 23,06% of the total to 17,460 students with some type of scholarship or scholarship, that is, around 2,000 more students, around 28,29% more. I mean, there's an increase in recent years of students in the Greek university system who receive more scholarships, who have more scholarships and more scholarships from the Ministry. It's data, I insist, coming from the Greek university system, from the universities themselves, which are data to which we at least give as much truth as possible. Also, Your Honor, there is a matter to be taken into account. You talk about economic resources, and you say it: university fees. In Galicia in recent years there has been a policy of freezing university rates, a freezing of university rates that leads us to Galicia, to which the Greeks have the university system where it is easier for families to access it because they have the cheapest university rates. A vast majority of university scholarships are geared to tuition costs, we have the lowest tuition costs in Spain. There is one fact that I think is significant: if we applied in the Greek university system the average cost of what is Spanish university, it would be for families around 19 million euros. In other words, the fact that we have the lowest university rates enables us to save – if we make an extrapolation over the average state rates – around 19 million euros. And there's a data where you're right. In fact, the average scholarships are reduced per student, but this is basically due to the fact that, by having the lowest tuition costs in the state, the scholarships that are targeted at financing and paying the tuition cost are in proportion to the cost of the scholarships. With which they are lower than in other autonomous communities, but that's because we have the lowest rates. We also have to say one thing that in this case I think is significant, in that policy of maintaining lower university rates. I believe that this Government and this political formation have shown in difficult years great protection for the university, families and students by maintaining the lowest university rates, which, by the way, contrasted with other times when, in full economic goodness, the costs of university fees were about 5% increased by an average. That's why really the policy that comes into effect freezing university fees... by the way, freezing them and favoring the totality of the student, both of degree, of master's and doctor's; and also for both the first and second and subsequent enrolments. I think that is supporting the student, supporting families and ensuring equal opportunities. And besides, Your Honor, you also know perfectly well that the Galician Board has put in place an order of supplementary scholarships to cover that pond that did not cover the Ministry, with which no student – that is our approach – must be excluded from the economic causes of the university system. And Junta has done and makes an effort with important own funds in this area, I have already said: the aid for the payment of the university tuition by complementing that of the Ministry, also special scholarships for those students who because they survive have a difficulty in their personal or family life – by the way, the order will go out immediately in the newsletter itself –, scholarships for master's degree, scholarships for career purposes, supplementary scholarships to Erasmus, mobility aid, and also scholarships for stays during the summer to know foreign languages in the European Union, which will also be immediate to their exit. I mean, there's a series of very important calls that brings together the Galician Council to complement the Ministry's. And I would also like here to record a very important question that you said here about the execution of the budget. You can be sure that, all those requests that are made and meet the requirements within the stock market scenario, they receive them. It is more, in some cases the number of applicants exceeded the amount budgeted, with which an extension of credit was made to complement those items. And when the number of fellow students or requests does not reach the total budget game, it is withdrawn to another budget game. You'll understand that's management. All requests to meet the requirements receive economic aid, and at times these items are supplemented. And also, on the other side of the coin, when there's an economic surplus in the economic gap, what you obviously do is transmit it to the other side, you make an expansion of credit in another game. That, of course, is the logical system of managing an administration. In any case, Mrs. Burgo, I would like your interpretation to be more in line with reality. The data presented here are objective data, real data; and I think that ultimately they are oriented to our principle; that is, no student – especially in times of economic difficulty – is excluded from the university system, is excluded from university education for economic reasons. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u359	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u360	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, I would also like you to use the data more rigorously, starting with the last one. Yes, with greater rigour, yes, yes, it is, with more rigor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Starting with the last one, because I knew you were going to tell me that, that it was a good management because what's left... is that it's not left. It's just that you call every year under the budget. If you have 3,180,000 by 2015, you, adding up all that you call, all the scholarships that you call, go up a little 2 million. Do you understand what I mean? It's just that you don't call for the total amount they have in the budget, so there's not less scholarships and less spending, is that you're already trying by all means not to invest or spend those games, Counsellor. On the other hand, the plugins for nobody left out. Let's see, so that all the ladies know, because they probably don't know, the departure for first-rate students is EUR 200,000 in total. I mean, we're talking about very small amounts. But besides that, Counsellor, can you tell me that the tuition fee is the only expense the families have to make? Because you say it compensates those who don't get to Wert's license plate because they don't get to 5.5. But for those who don't get to the complementary games, what do we do about it? You're not giving a scholarship to those who are between 5.5 and 6.5 so they can get help to the residence and material help. Those are desisted, Counselor. Money has it, money will spare you to make calls for new scholarships, you know perfectly well. On the other hand, Counsellor, I don't know if you know you're giving, within the demands that students make to each of the scholarship modalities, between 40% and 43%, nothing more. Why? Because they don't meet the requirements of the summons. Have you ever wondered how it is possible that in a moment of economic crisis, with little purchasing power from families, 60 percent of those who ask for a scholarship don't meet their conditions? It's because their conditions meet very few people, of course. Because you have very low income thresholds, Counselor. And you know what's going on? They're the same as the Ministry's, yes, but you don't apply any reduction criteria for those rents, as they apply, yes – you know – to the Ministry's calls. So there are higher incomes that manage to reach those income thresholds because there are a number of income correction criteria, you know it perfectly. That's why the German students don't get to their scholarships because they can't meet those thresholds – because the truth is, it's not even the basic salary you ask for. So you should review all of this, Counselor, because you're giving very little scholarships. And, look, one proof of that is that every time universities have to put more money in their scholarships to counter the injustices and the bad politics of Mr. Rajoy's Government and Mr. Feijóo's Government, and you know it perfectly. What else are the students caught? Counsellor, there'd have to be a lot more, because it turns out that students are asking for more scholarships the worse the economic situation is. I mean, there'd have to be a lot more, since the economic situation that's been going through all these years, and that's still here, is really very black. Counselor, what you don't really answer me is why you don't execute – not even summons – all the funds you have. And I also want to know if you, in view of these results, first, consider that there is no need for different scholarship modalities. What do we do with those who don't get to college because they can't pay for the change of residence, because they can't afford the material, because they can't pay the expenses of living out of the house? What do we do with that?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u361	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u362	Did we leave them out of college? You know there's a lot of people out there who have enough curriculum and enough effort to get to college. What we have to ask you to do is do something about this situation and fix the situation – which, by the way, is your obligation – and ensure that everything you have the capacity to reach university. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Close. Mr. Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u364	Well, with regard to the arguments being made, Mrs. Burgo, I think there's nothing better than what's the content of the data and put the data on the table. And we can interpret or we can see the glass half full or half empty, but the important thing is -- let's say -- the information we're handling, and then each one can draw the conclusions he wants, but I put the data I've already said on the table. And I think it has to be repetitive because it seems we are ignoring the data that are exposed here and explained clearly. At the level of Spain, in the last two years we have the greatest public contribution to the system of university scholarships, the greatest. In difficult, very difficult times, the Government of the State makes the Spanish university system available to the greatest extent of the history of university scholarships and scholarships. That's a fact I think powerful, and that's a fact that's in the laws of the general government budget. I think it's a little debatable data. Second, it is not questionable: the increase of pupils in the Greek university system who receive assistance or scholarships from the Ministry: in 2009 around 23% of students enrolled; in 2015, around 28.9% of students enrolled. There's an increase in students receiving some kind of scholarship or scholarship from the Ministry. In Galicia – which is not controversial either, I think it cannot be discussed – we have the cheapest university fees, which is also a policy to promote equity and equality in the university system, is a fact that is not questionable. We are even talking about economic values around a third with other autonomous communities –Madrid or Barcelona – around a third. I think it's also a policy of social equity and equal opportunities. Galicia has her own scholarships, scholarships to, in some way, also reinforce the ministerial lines, and you've made a fingertip in one that I'd like to talk about here because I also have the data, obviously. You're telling me about those aids that the Galician board has enabled to fund the enrolment of those students who don't reach the academic threshold set by Decree Wert. Well, look, in 2012-2013, in that academic course, we were talking about around 582,000 euros, which didn't run everything because there were not the necessary demands, there were not the necessary requirements. And these economic quantities, of course, are sent – by means of a credit correction – to other economic items. The following year, in 2013-2014, that match went up to one million, and it didn't cover either, it didn't spend everything either; with which, a credit change was made to another area. Or it is currently in smaller quantities. Why? Because we went to see how that amount wasn't executed; with which, to plan an economic departure that then didn't run... the logic is to adjust it to demand. And I also tell you that these like other bags owned by the Galician board, when there was more demand and if they met the requirements of the budgeted departure that existed, they increased by credit modification and, on the other hand, when it was reversed, they got out. Obviously, the Ministry's income thresholds are used here, which are the ones we understand to be generally used in the Spanish ensemble. In any case, I believe that our politics has a maximum and has a red line, as it is said now, and that maximum and that red line is that no university student who by capacity and merit may be in the university system is not excluded; that is, no Greek student is excluded for economic reasons from the university system. And that's why I think a sufficient amount of money is being spent. Obviously, if you ask me – I tell you honestly – if we would like to have more resources to assist you, I would say yes, of course yes; I would say that of course we would like to have a lot more resources. Because I, like you, understand that university is, without a doubt, the best social promotion lever to generate equal opportunities in people. I'm a son of the public university, I work at the public university, and I'm very proud to be a son of the public university, to work at the public university, and to understand that this is the mechanism that generates equal opportunities, that generates social equity and that generates progress. And I am fully aware of the importance of university to improve the quality of life of society, so that people are better professionals, so that businesses, businesses are better off and that there is greater well-being, of course; now, what we have to be aware of is that in these moments of enormous difficulty this government has made as much as possible and is doing its utmost to make no Greek student out of the system for economic reasons. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u365	Thank you very much, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-26-DSPG138.u366	Before I suspend the session until tomorrow, I would like to inform you of a change in the agenda, which is that, after subsitating the interpellation that appears in the first round of interpellations, the question to the Government that appears in the second place will be raised. You're already talking to the vice president, who spoke to the various spokesmen and stakeholders. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
