ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u1	Good morning. Please take a seat. Let's start the session. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs Elena González and Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso are justified in attending this plenary session. Let's start with the legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, thereby creating and regulating a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u2	For the presentation of the bill, Mrs. Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We also want to greet the people who accompany us, in particular the president of "Yes, there is a way out." "So, binding the rope of a sharp ship to a high column, surrounded the pavilion with it, straining it at a good height, so that none had reached the feet to the floor. And when as torchs of broad wings, or pigeons, they rush into an extended hunting net in a slaughterhouse flying towards their nest, and they are trapped by a hateful roof, so they lay hanging, with their heads in line, and around their necks untieed their ties, so that they died in the most lamentable way. They shook their feet a little, but not long." Odyssey, song XXII. Why do I start with this quote by defending a bill that regulates a salary for women who suffer from gender-based violence? I'm starting with this quote because the inequality that emerges from the lives of men and women has a historical origin, it has a cultural origin, but it has basically a symbolic origin. I think this quote, that to everyone and everyone probably goes unnoticed when we read The Odyssey, because it's brief, because it's almost already at the end of this text and because the rapsoda simply considers that the sweet maids who fed, who washed, who cared for princes deserve nothing more than having these few lines to say they die without name, die without knowing who they are, die bound by the same rope and do not deserve the same fate as the princes, to whom they were already condemned to clean up the blood they had left after Odyseus had killed them. I think it's a good way to start, of how women historically suffered an invisible and invisible violence. But we must ask ourselves why this source of violence is due. Simone de Beauvoir said that there is nothing in nature, there is nothing natural that bases discrimination; that discrimination comes as a cultural construct, like the way we understand relationships between men and women. That's why this naturalization of violence against women who have suffered historically has been questioned from all walks of life by the movements of women and feminism, from the theoretical sphere, from the Academy, from politics, from the movements of the streets, from all areas where women work and work. And today I want to make a little reflection, before entering into what this rule is intended to regulate, on the importance of naming and visualizing violence against women. That is why I wanted to start with this quote from The Odyssey. Why name violence against women? First, because it needs to be named so that we can think about it. Second, it's necessary to name her so we can meet her. And third, it is necessary to name it so that we can legislate, which is the commission of a camera, which is the commission of this camera. First, we need to name it so we can think about it. When violence is invisible, when women have no name, when women have no voice, when the sweet maids are killed with the same rope, that violence is natural, they are isolated cases, they are in the home, they are passionate crimes, they always happened, it's normal, the things of the house are left at home. Name it was a work for at least two centuries, but basically for the last three decades. Violence against women, gender-based violence, masculine violence, female violence, each one was a concept that he tried to show to think it's not an individual issue, that it's not a problem that one day a drunk man comes home and decides to beat his wife, but it's a social problem. And, therefore, it can only be overcome from the social path in each of the prisms that we project, whether of thought or of political action. Because it's social injustice we're in this chamber legislating. If it was an isolated data, if it was an individual problem that lives in every home, we couldn't legislate. But we legislate because it is a question of social justice, as many thinkers have shown, and I am allowed not only to resort to Iris Marion Young, but to a professor of Santiago de Compostela philosophy who has worked hard on it, Maria Jose Agra, who has shown in our texts that, in being a social problem, we must have social justice to deal with it. So name it to think about it, but name it to know it. We have given a lot of data in this chamber about gender-based violence in recent years. I'm going to take the 2015 macroeconomic survey, so that we can get to know it, although I know, ladies and gentlemen, that you know it. But let's think about it in detail: The latest macroeconomic survey, physical violence by women living in the Spanish state, 10.7% consider having suffered physical violence. Think about what we're on this camera, about four of us. Sexual violence, 8.1% of women living in Spain claim to have suffered sexual violence by their partners or former partners; I'm talking about couples or former couples. 10.7% in couples and ex-partners, sexual violence, 8.1. Let's think about what we're on this camera, at least three. Psychological violence as control, in the couple or in the former couple, 25% of the women living in the Spanish state. Look, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues who are next door, surely some of us from each of our groups suffer psychological violence. But psychological violence on the ground of emotion, because of the difference in control, says the macro-enquisis: 21.9% of the women living in the Spanish state. The same thing, we just have to look at ourselves to think that this camera is possibly because we're talking about twelve women. Economic violence, those women who, with their partner or former couple, can't make use of the money they earn, exactly 10.8 speaks of this macro-enquisition. They go back to their accounts and look around them. But if we want not only to think about the scope of the couple or the former couple, as the rule of 2004, physical violence outside the couple or the former couple. This survey speaks of 11.6 percent of women living in the Spanish state who outside their partner or former couple have been subjected to violence or physical violence. And sexual violence, 7.2% outside the couple or the former couple. Add up the percentages and look at what magnitude we're talking about, how physical, psychological, sexual, economic, and emotional violence goes through the lives of thousands and thousands of women. That's why it's so important to have words to know her. It's not an individual matter, it's not something within the scope of neither the couple nor the homes, but it's a structural issue in the relationships between the group of men and the group of women. So, once thought and known, what is the obligation of this camera? The obligation of this chamber – like all cameras – is to legislate, legislate to try to give legal form of rights and benefits and to prevent this situation of injustice. They're all known, because we've been on a commission to evaluate the laws that are in force for three years, both the 2004 Organic Law and the 2007 Welsh Gender Violence Prevention and Treatment Act. And many things we could say about that commission, about what we heard, about the victim associations themselves, and what these associations have put on so many occasions on the table, with brave people like those who accompany us today, who explain their experience. We have also heard from this committee the professionals themselves in all fields, who have given their explanation of what they live day by day and what needs to be improved. We've heard of governments, programs that have been launched... we've heard of critical considerations, less criticism. But there's something that's clear, that from the starting points there's still a lot of way. And indeed, the path has many curves and sometimes it seems that we don't always move straight towards the goal. Today we stop at one point, which is the point of economic aid. But I want us to go a little further, because, ladies and gentlemen, you are certainly thinking that this initiative has already been discussed on another occasion. In fact, in a very similar way, we deal with this issue in February 2015, but now finishing the commission's work, and perhaps with the suspicion that we can't do a dictation, for lack of time, that I know it's not for lack of will, but we may lack the time to make that dictation, we also have an obligation, ladies and gentlemen, which is to lose in some way all that we hear and of what we take note in the commission for a future and to improve women's life. So we propose a text that is simply a starting text; it does not have to be the incoming text after the presentation process has finished. A text that takes one aspect of the law, as is Article 39, on the need to have economic benefits so that women can break up cohabitation with the aggressor. And we think of an ejacism that clearly exists in the law of Greece, which also exists in organic law, but I think that in the law of Greece it is easier to nuance. Greek law assumes and assumes in its article 3 that there are different forms of violence, and collects physical violence, psychological violence, sexual violence, emotional violence, but also establishes that there is as a form of violence trafficking in women. That's a pioneer, because it's not in the other laws of the state, and we really should call it "women's treatise," which shows how at the height of 2007 we still didn't understand the concepts that are now in common use. So we introduce this concept that appears collected in Article 3 itself to establish also the need for periodic aid to reach more women than those who break their cohabitation with the aggressor, who also arrive at those who come out of situations of trafficking, something which we have, on the other hand, heard on repeated occasions in this commission of evaluation of the law. It's one of the most important issues that has been put on the table by associations that work in the area of aid to women out of trafficking: the need for specific benefits that go beyond the risk itself or the wages of freedom itself, if you could get there. So what this rule is about is that we take a text, that we improve it with the contributions that have been made to us in this committee, and that we try, at least, that the aid may be requested throughout the year and have a coverage that allows these women to get out of a situation of violence in the full extent of the term violence. Ladies and gentlemen, if you ask me why it has not been introduced at this time, it is true that it has not been done because you have not thought about it at that time. Maybe we didn't even have the words or the steps given so we could think about it. But the important thing is not who does things, but who will benefit from those rights. That must be the objective which presides over this debate and which presides – if we arrive at the right end – of a presentation that really serves us to be back in Galicia as pioneers in the development of rights and benefits, and this is a magnificent moment. Surely the text we present has many eves, it's a very simple text, but it wants to raise a question: that we must develop each and every aspect of the laws of violence but improved, and the economic aspect must also improve it. Indeed, like psychological care, like everything that has to do with judicial order, with everything that has to do with accompanying the victims and with everything that has to do with, of course, with the most fundamental, which is prevention, but which certainly exceeds the scope of what we are discussing in this law and in this text. This text is very specific. It's about the economic aid, which is a very important step and that they are in Galicia, where I want to remember that the Greek women suffer the highest pay gap in the state and where, therefore, they suffer later the lowest pensions, having the lowest wages. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this call for consensus to take into consideration a text that allows us to regulate aid that includes all forms of violence. Not only those that are given in the context of the couple or in the field of the former couple, but also that form of violence as brutal as trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation, and that we can include it in this norm. I know she's not present in the joint, that's right, but I also know we can. We have time, we are at this minute's discount of the legislation and we have time to do those jobs, to assume what we have heard all these years – not months, but years – in the Equality Commission that is evaluating these laws. And I think, modestly, that it is a small legacy of all the work of that commission.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u5	As I have to go to finish, I want to do it as I began, because you, ladies and gentlemen, know that Odyssey is lame because it's over and out; because, indeed, they forgot to put on the rapsodas that the maids also wanted a trial. They also wanted, that gentleman who traveled so much and so much loved, that he could be a French general, a Mongol invader, an American magnate, a head hunter in Borneo, perhaps a movie star, an inventor, an advertiser, a scientist – and I would also add a politician, why not! – to make a trial and allow the last corner of the Odyssey to be that of the maids: "We were not given a voice, we were not given a name, we were not given an election, they gave us a face, a single face. We blamed ourselves, it was unfair. But now we're here. We're here too, just like you, and we're following you and we're looking for you and we're calling you." For all those women we don't know their name, but who, thanks to their work and their pain, today force us to legislate for women who suffer from macho violence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u7	Good morning, ladies. Thank you very much, President. Congratulations to Mrs Adam and the Parliamentary Group of the BNG for this bill presented in this Chamber. Despite the progress made in the fight against macho violence, driven by the feminist movement and assumed by the rulers, the truth is that today women continue to be murdered, and 4 out of every 5 don't report the abuser. And they don't because they don't feel safe, they don't feel sheltered by public authorities. They're afraid, ladies. Fear of the batterer; fear of the judicial process; fear of not being called if there is no physical evidence of the abuse; fear of the protection offered to them not being effective. They fear the loss of their children and their children and fear that they will not be able to bring their families forward by themselves, because they are economically dependent – on many occasions – on whom they abuse them. They don't denounce because they're suspicious of a justice that, by being aseptically fair, doesn't just protect them. They don't report because they don't trust institutions contaminated by party and electoral interests, which handle many and varied statistical figures but forget the urgent and desperate situation of the battered woman. They do not denounce, and their suffering, their pain and tears are the price they pay for the benefit of their children and, if so, their dependents. In a situation of extreme vulnerability, people who are victims of macho violence should be considered by themselves as a particularly attentive collective, such as what they deserve the victims of political terrorism. I look forward to the day when governments, institutions, political class and society in general face and assume the situation of unemployment and deprotection in which women suffer from this kind of violence in all its magnitude. A kind of violence, in some cases of doors inside, is hard to prove when there's no more proof than the word of the woman, when the malt hasn't left any footprints to show it. The strategy of the torturer begins with psychological abuse, subjecting the victim to continued humiliations that undermine self-esteem and nullify the ability to think for themselves, the ability to decide, and even favor the guilt of the victim. When a woman is physically assaulted, it's been a long time, surely, in her dignity and self-esteem. Of course, progress has been made in the legislative aspect and resources have been applied in order to rescue battered women into a life free of violence. From the various state and autonomous agencies, laws, measures and programmes have been adopted against gender-based violence, in addition to resources available to the victim, such as the formation of security bodies and health personnel, information, free psychological and legal assistance, the implementation of security devices, prevention and awareness campaigns and economic aid that provide battered women with sufficient economic autonomy to start a new life free of violence. The processes are slow, and the limited and complicated economic benefits in their call and request. The salary of freedom, a measure by the Bipartisan Government, was a major step forward, but its application suffered cuts and delays in the coming of the People's Party, again, to the Government of the United Nations. This initiative that we are discussing is trying to regulate this salary by law, which would prevent it from being subject to government aid calls, as is currently the case. In addition, it would ensure a more agile and effective processing, a fundamental aspect, if we take into account the emergency situation in which a battered woman finds herself, who cannot remain in the government's referee of turn both in his summons and in his budgetary allocation. What the BNG initiative proposes – and the Joint Group will support – is to regulate this benefit by law, taking as reference the maximum interprofessional wage and applying accounts based on the number of minors and dependents by the victim. It is also intended to correct an important asset in the management of these benefits. Today, the call period goes from March to October, and it's impossible for you to apply for the rest of the year. How is it possible to force a victim of male violence to remain with the aggressor because of lack of economic resources or because it is not possible to ask for this help? This could explain why 4 out of every 5 battered women don't report. As is the labour market and the economic and labour situation of the most disadvantaged classes at present, which affects women in particular, increasing the period in which this benefit can be received is essential. One year results in all insufficient light to achieve the economic, labor and emotional recovery that the victim needs for his autonomy. To enable the deadline throughout the year for the application and payment from the submission, the extension to 18 months and 6 months more when necessary, and the rise, at least, to 655.20 euros, corresponds to the minimum interprofessional wage. It's a proposal for minimums that, despite all, a very important step forward in the fight against violence, against male terrorism. It's a window of hope for those who are suffering the torture of macho violence, exercised, in this case, at home. I also consider it important that, although a priori this social benefit is incompatible with any other established by the various private administrations or entities for this purpose, they can legally be compatible with other public aid, or with the active income of insertion, as well as that the transfer motivated to another autonomous community does not suspend the provision. And, of course, that administrative silence results in the estimation of the request is also a measure I fully agree with. Finally, the proposal is also responsible for ensuring and budgetaryly ensuring the availability of resources for the attention of all requests, as it cannot be otherwise. But by strengthening it with a law, it obliges the Administration to provide resources and prioritize this type of aid in budgets, to ensure its necessary provision. I hope that this bill will be adopted by this Parliament, so that the consensus can be reached in its process and its implementation sooner than later. If that is the case, the amounts, deadlines, percentages and other assessments will be taken into account and discussed. The Joint Group, as it could not be otherwise, will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u8	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u9	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank Mrs Adam for the debate on this initiative. The reality for victims of gender-based violence is that it's very painful. I say that the administration has really failed on this subject. It has also failed society, administration and different powers. It is true – it was said here – that if there have been little progress, it is true that there are people, there are very large professionals and there are also improvements, thanks to the struggle of feminism in our country. But when we see the increase of women victims, when we see the persistence of the problem, when we watch atonites and almost change to a reality in which masculine violence increases in youth – we have discussed it on one occasion – we can only conclude that what is being done is fruitless in many respects and that we fail in the collective, and governments in particular. Gender violence obviously does not depend on the political party that governs, murders and aggressions do not depend on the party that governs. But if it depends on who governs changing the situation of improvements in education – where we go back to – the improvements in the justice system – where we go back to as well –, improvements in benefits, improvements in social security, mechanisms to protect victims. And obviously it's also up to the government to budget all this. So believe me, ladies and gentlemen, if I say right here that the allegations you make of the situation, or that we do from this forum of the situation of violence, I am not a weapon for the political struggle, to put the People's Party on top of this case, which is what governs, the increase of violence. We're not talking about anything like that, it's probably not in his hand to end directly with that violence. However, if they are responsible for not making the situation worse, for attacking the causes, for being radical in the etymological and for addressing the causes of gender-based violence, at least trying to reduce it. I'm responsible, therefore, for not doing everything I can. The educational counter-reform, the problems in justice, the cut-off in education, health, justice and social services make the speech when it is often used to "let's fight against this fence" an empty speech. And that's why the government fails and others have failed before. I don't know if this Parliament is too. We've been with the Non-Permanent Equality Commission for the Fight against Gender Violence for two years. There was a work plan, the truth that was quite broad, very good, we had magnificent appearances. But the Government, however, was unable to take note of the minimum aspects requested by the visitors. I very much fear – I wish I was wrong – that we would end the time of the legislation, even dictate it, and the work is kept in a government drawer. It's hopeless, I'm telling you honestly, because there are such simple things as the one you're proposing today that they went out on multiple occasions in that commission. Not only in the Equality Commission, I believe it has moved actively and passively through all means and forms. We also discussed this in Commission 5th. And even if he moved publicly and privately to the Secretariat of Equality that there was a problem with the payments of the freedom wage or with the help of women victims of gender-based violence. And nothing was done. It is regrettable that the Administration – the Joint, the Vice-President and the Secretariat – acts as if it were a weapon of political discussion, as a reactive form or quite childish positioning. They don't seem to want to make a mistake. I mean, there's a problem with this -- Mrs. Adam sent it away -- and no matter who it is, it needs to be improved. And yet, as much as it moved them, they took no note of anything at all. I believe that not only they do things wrong in many ways, but they do deaf ears when they are strongly asked to change something that is relatively simple to change and which is of great importance to people in a vulnerable situation, such as the victims of gender-based violence. And not to do it is terrible, and it also denotes a great irresponsibility. If one detects that this aid can't be collected all year long... they've had to recognize it even by the Galician board. Why, why don't you do nothing? If there is a problem of incompatibility, why does the People's Party introduce incompatibility with other aids? Why were those when we were talking about a highly vulnerable collective, which in addition doesn't even mean a very high budget or an economic problem for the Galician Union? We are going to vote in favour of this proposal not only because of the need for improvement and everything I have just described, but because we really want to discuss it with the other parliamentary groups. Let's see if we're once giving a little consensus, because if we don't, it's going to appear that the only thing that interests here is the support debate, in this case the electoral campaign. For example, we would like to discuss Article 2 of the proposal, and I think that paragraph (b) can be revised to stop cohabiting with the aggressor previously – which is already there – which can be a little of the fish that catches the tail, which certainly needs to be reviewed. I think it's an important debate, because if the woman doesn't have the ability to abandon the aggressor before it can be a little the vicious circle, she should think about it. In paragraph (c) it would be necessary to reverse the residence permit requirement. Mrs. Adam spoke very rightly about the problem for women victims of trafficking – on many occasions we have discussed it. These women are in an irregular situation or have no resident papers. How could that be improved so that people in situations as vulnerable as women are not excluded, besides paperless and in a context of violence? We believe that Article 3 should also be reviewed. We could contribute there because we believe that in the scheme of incompatibilities we could establish the possibility of setting a maximum limit of perception in case of compatibility with other aids. We also understand that in the second additional provision of the proposal the report could be annual and not biannual. We understand that, as far as the House is concerned, the report on whether or not to comply with the laws of gender-based violence is concerned, this could also be brought. We have enough matches with the rest of the text and we think it deserves to be supported so that we can at least discuss it in a presentation. And I'm going to finish as I started. Aggression and death may not be the ultimate responsibility of a government, but they are working to change this situation. The reality is that nothing of this is being done, as much as grandloquent speeches are being made and we listen to multiple appearances that are said to be working very hard. The reality is that the situation is the same or worse – it speaks of the case of youth – that there are cuts in everything that is health, education, justice; that there are many problems also in social services to which we are not giving an answer. And often they fill the Government's mouths with talk of transversality and forget that real transversality is done with politics in the day-to-day world, and therefore much of this government's policy should be amended. Even in concrete, since it is not transversal – which is the case that this initiative is involved – I think – and I really think this reflection here – to make deaf ears to requests for improvement, complaints about cuts or proposals within and outside this House is irresponsible, it is unwise. And besides, in this case, speaking of gender-based violence, of women, of people in a situation of excessive vulnerability, it's even cruel. So we are obviously going to vote in favour of this bill. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Very briefly, firstly, to add to Mrs. Adam's excellent speech. Thank you very much, Carme, as a woman. Really, thank you. And I also announce that we will, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, vote in favour of taking into consideration a law that only wants to correct something that is wrong. By the way, just as we voted in favour in February 2015, when, indeed, Mrs Adam, you were bringing this same proposal, which was rejected by the majority party's votes, the People's Party. And precisely, because it's something that's wrong, we, from our group, have also asked the Government of the Council of Galicia on multiple occasions to modify those bases from the aid to the victims so they were – something obvious – accessible throughout the months of the year. But until now Mr Feijóo's government had ignored our requests. But, surprise!, surprise, surprise!, the elections arrived, and it turns out that in the past – I don't know if your ladies remember – in the debate of the Strategic Plan of June 2015-2020 the PP finally accepted – I suppose because it already has put the electoral basket – a socialist proposal in which, once again, we ask that, the victims of gender violence have access to the approaches contemplated by the law itself – in our law, in the autonomous law – throughout the year. You accepted. Of course we don't know if we intend to comply with what the plan collects or simply leave it there to be carried out by the new government in front of the board after the next autonomous elections. Of course, if you really want to comply with the Board's strategic plan that you just voted for in the past, you'll have to accept the consideration of this law. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the debate of this legislative text will allow you to shape the change in the salary of the victims that our group was asking for and that you accepted and included in the plan. Otherwise we will think that your vote in favour was a lie more to Mr. Feijóo or electoral propaganda, which is very hard, because, ladies and gentlemen, you are using women victims of gender-based violence. And it's very clear at this point that equality has suffered a serious setback both in Spain and Galicia, we understand, and it's logical to think about it, that with the measures taken by the People's Party governments, conservative governments, in front of the state and in front of the Union. And this is something obvious. But besides being obvious, you are already being denounced by experts and international bodies. And that retreat, ladies and gentlemen, could be conducive to increasing the number of women killed every year. So, without the courage to make politics on this issue – as you always, Mr. Rueda, complains to us – something you will have to change in the management of this matter, something will have to change, don't you think? I will allow myself to advise you, Mr. Rueda – indeed, so with all ease – I will allow myself to advise you on the first thing you have to change. And the first thing you have to change, Mr. Rueda, is your attitude. Yes, because it seems that this subject does not motivate him, really, it seems that he always treats him indolently. Maybe that's precisely why, because it's a subject that's not worth doing politics. And, of course, we already know that what you like is politics. He likes intrigue, conspiracy, but above all he likes motions of censure. Well, I'd ask you, Mr. Rueda, that between motion and motion... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u12	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u13	...if you will allow me, with all courtesy, to make an effort and give a second thought to this problem. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it's the most serious problem our society has. And look, gentlemen, we're in trouble! But this is the most serious, without any doubt, the most serious. And the attitude of governments is not conceived, it's not conceived, it's not understood, it's explained only because they consider it a problem of women, no more domestic or intimate; not, no, women. Look, I would also ask the People's Parliamentary Group to allow the debate of this law with its vote in favour. And, of course, I would ask Mr. Feijóo that, now that he has put Robin Hood's suit in front of the election, use a little of that money that has now appeared – and they have not only appeared but now it seems as if they still have enough – that money he had in these tough and hard years stored in a drawer waiting for the election to arrive. It's absolutely intolerable... yes? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, if not, tell us, tell us, Mr. Rueda. Don't be scared or do... what's scary is the fact that one step from the election turns out that now we're left with money, when you're getting hurt all these years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they use a few of that money in the victims of violence. By the way, I'm going to ask you something else, too, with all courtesy, to start with the children of the murdered woman in Becerrea. Because look, they stayed in the street, and in the street they are, absolutely with nothing. Because also that victim, those children who are now considered victims, because they were victims in the months when the fences are closed. Look, give support to all battered women, regardless of the month in which the complaint is made, and also to the sons and daughters of whom they were murdered. Well, I insist, too, when there are orphans outside these months in which those aids are open, they can't access them until they're reopened. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, if we start this debate of this legislative text, we can talk about many things, the length of the approach, whether the twelve months are sufficient or not – I think not, at least in most cases – even look, ladies, we would also have to consider that there are sectors of society that are asking these contributions to be vital, be done, vital, because what they are asking is that they be considered – the victims of machismo, of machismo terrorism – as the victims of other terrorism. We could talk about the compatibility or complementarity of the different approaches, we could talk about the accounts of the arrivals and define the people who would benefit from them, because of course not only women are the victims of the batter or the killer, but also all the people who depend on it. We could define, if we have time, Mrs Adam, and that's what I'm afraid is going to be a problem, but if we had time we could calmly discuss a long et cetera. Of course, it doesn't make sense that victims of violence can only access the former so-called "salary of freedom", so criticized, I remember it well, and now to "recurrent economic performance", a few months a year, because violence is present, Mr. Rueda, the 300 and five days. And that they can't get access for just administrative matters, and it doesn't make any sense that the PP again and again refuses to change those administrative criteria. In addition, it would be intolerable that, after voting on the socialist resolution in which this was collected, now at the next plenary session, you vote against a law to regulate the implementation of the adopted one. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, Mr. Rueda, you must not waste this new opportunity to review the economic benefits of victims of violence, or it will be very clear what all Galicia should already know, that Feijóo is a Robin Hood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Oubiña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Also to the councilman, who's here. And less ill, Mrs. Acuña, that you're not doing politics, the truth is that you've shown something else. Mrs. Adán, the truth is that I appreciate your tributary and respect for which I proposed this proposal not of law, I personally liked the invocation you made in the past debate of Rosalía's work, but we enjoyed your in-exposure. But once again, we have just noticed the attitude between, we could say, disrespectful and irresponsible of some of the opposition's spokespersons, in particular Mrs Acuña, to deal with a subject as sensitive as gender violence, which, in addition, is a subject that today intends to change, but that at the time this lady, who was a Member of this House, voted in favour of the measures which she does not now like. From the People's Party we are aware that there is both in the prevention system and in the victim protection system. We are aware that there are measures to be taken, that there are measures taken that are also questionable, and that there are ways that already exist, but that they are better. However, we have made it clear from this group that there is an instrument that is fundamental, such as consensus and political responsibility, to which Mrs. Adam also mentioned when dealing with such a delicate situation for women. That political unity does not mean a lack of debate, nor a lack of criticism, but it does mean moving women to the victims of Machism that political groups are together to defend themselves from further improving a system at their disposal. We can continue to take steps and adapt new measures, but we will lose the basis of that struggle if there are groups from this House able to move women victims who are unprotected so that they can use this issue as a partisan weapon. With this theme you can make politics, you can do social struggle, but what you don't have to do is partyism, Mrs. Acuña, and less demagogy. With the People's Group in the opposition we were able to vote in favour of the Welsh Law in 2007 against gender-based violence that has driven the two-party Government, I think it would be impossible to achieve this consensus with Members in this House as Mrs Acuña, with this opposition, which represents a reversal of the policy against gender-based violence that we can only regret. [[Murmurs.]] You are the one who – I mean some opposition groups – tells society that Junta has no means to address the victims of masculine violence, when they know that the 313D Programme of budgets this year has the biggest economic share of the programme since the spending exists, 3.9 million euros. [[Murmurs.]] I am the one, Mrs. Acuña, to say that there are women who are left without economic protection when in 2015 they have received periodic assistance 339 women; since there is the program, about 4,000 have been attended. I am also one who ignores the progress made in supporting the victims that have been made in recent years, such as the total freeness of school lunches for children and children of macho violence, a remote translation service to more than 50 languages in order to be able to serve foreign women who want to denounce and need assistance. The inclusion of specialized care also for women with hearing and speech disabilities, as well as free transport to women to the centres of the Greek reception network through agreement with Fegataxis, cooperation agreement with the rest of autonomous communities for the transfer of victims to foster homes from outside, if necessary, for security reasons as well. As well as recalling the agreement with the State to access the Biogen system and make a better follow-up to the protection of victims, from the Autonomic Police, to those protection orders. Therefore, to speak of cuts in the protection of victims of violence in Galicia is not only irresponsible for the message being moved, it is a lack of respect for all the women they need and all the women who have these measures of help and protection. It made this introduction, which was necessary to speak fairly of the work, of the good work of Joina in this matter, we return to the text of the non-law proposition that today brings the Nationalist Block Galego. The last time we discussed this same non-law proposal, Mrs Adam, it ended by saying in the speech that it would improve the text and bring it back to this plenary. Mrs. Adam brought him back to this plenary with the only change of the term "mass violence" in the first paragraph, which has already been discussed in this Parliament, keeping the whole text exactly the same, i.e., keeping even those mistakes, those errors that, being copied from the call of the Union, refer in the text to this resolution, when I would have to say to this law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I really can't understand this attitude of presenting the exact same bill that has already been refused to change anything. Maybe if the People's Party had done it, you'd have turned us away from electoralism, when we're about to finish the legislation. This non-law proposal is intended to freeze into law rules of procedure which are the property of an order, of a decree, in which you know that they are more flexible and possible changes. We have already said in the previous debate that it is not reasonable, nor logical, that this type of regulation is anchored in a legal text that prevents the correcting and incorporating of new measures that benefit victims relatively easily to enable these periodic aids to reach as many women as possible. So if you want to amend your own law, that's what I understand, changing the model of providing these aids, which I think is what you said here, we're open to debate, but not with a text that we've already told you seems inappropriate. Look, in recent years we have had to regret that the BNG is taking advantage of agreements that were beneficial to women victims of gender-based violence. Thus, in the debate of the state of Autonomy of 2013 opposed themselves, they proposed to urge the Government to activate the comprehensive recovery centre. The block didn't want to support us, fortunately the center is running. We have processed the Act of Social Inclusion, with the regulation of short procedure of the Risk for victims of macho violence, the BNG has tabled an amendment and voted against. In 2014 we proposed to promote the creation of continuous local tables on gender violence, they also voted against. At the end of 2015 we proposed improving the system of equal training for civil servants in gender violence, they also voted against it, and recently we proposed to initiate a pioneering work integration program so that victims of violence would regain their economic independence, and also, Mrs. Adam, they voted against it. You said in the previous debate that they were constructive, that they had proposals, today again invokes that consensus, we will not deprive women victims of gender-based violence of those measures that favour them, but we will not promote measures that, because they are poorly formulated, harm them. So – and to finish, because if I'm running out of time – with the will of that consensus, with the desire to be constructive and with the desire to come to those agreements, if what you want, Mrs. Adam, is to convert the periodic aid into a permanent benefit, we change the text from top to bottom. We have converted it into a timely amendment to Article 39 of Law 11/2007, which sets that permanent period. We're willing to do that. If you admit and show yourself ready to blur and new account that the text is modified in its entirety, we are willing to admit the process of this initiative that we will reform – I repeat it – entirely, but leaving the conditions of existence, of procedure, in a regulatory range that continues to allow that flexibility necessary to adapt them and improve them continuously. We follow, it seems good to admit to what you have referred to, to women victims of trafficking, because it is already contemplated by law. Therefore, we hope that in your closing turn, in your reply time, say whether you are willing to accept what we have just explained, you decide and we are - as I said - willing to vote in favour. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Replica roll. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u17	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the Vice-President for his presence during the entire debate on this initiative. Madam Oubina, I really listened to her carefully and, well, it would take almost a little more time to understand what your proposal is. He understands that he did here a report of the times we voted against, not those we voted for, which I think are very numerous. You also read the newspapers, I also did this to get here, and I think quite a few, and when it was against, in addition, always argued – like the last – that it was already a program that was running, not because we opposed that program. Look, Mrs Oubina, with all due respect, I don't think it's a question of coming here to formulate a sort of blackmail, which is almost as it has been, but if you're willing to deal with two basic questions, to which it is regulated in the same way as Risga, who know it perfectly, in the Act of inclusion, which can be asked at any time and within some time, to regulate it as it regulates Risk and to introduce trafficking in women, if these are the two questions, I have no affection for this text. I mean, all the texts are written, surely I could have written it much better, devote more time to it. I'm sorry, if I didn't have more time to devote more strength to him. But of course, the fundamental thing is that this economic benefit can be applied for all year round, and I think about Risk because it's the one I know best and because I think it's the one we can take as a model to focus on. And to introduce trafficking, you have to modify some articulate, but not just 39, but, well, you'll have to modify Article 3 (f) so that you don't call yourself "women's trafficking" and you call yourself "women's dealings," that is, to be consistent with all the international regulation that is being done about it. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, – and I am sorry, that it seemed that I was looking only at the People's Party and Mrs Oubiña – that, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a point where we can find ourselves, that we can debate it. I don't have any special... I don't think my own group is in this text. And, if I may, in the remaining two minutes, a little reflection. Many years ago, over twenty-five, I went to the table of political women, of many different ideologies. They were talking about equality policies and they were saying one thing that was: well, we're going to have to look for spaces of pacts between women, to put reflections in common, to understand that actually, aren't we, all of us, at last, are loaned in public space, because we keep considering that public space is essentially the lords. I think that's why this time I wanted to start with a quote from the Odyssey and with a reflection for me of a great literature like Margaret Atwood, but of course I have always been present, Mrs. Obiña, the Castro Rosaly, although I don't quote her in all the interventions; that I can assure you. Let us try, as far as we are concerned, at least with that objective of reaching a periodic benefit that can be applied for throughout the year, and if it includes trafficking, working cooperatively and looking for that text. I understand that if that can be the consideration, we accept it from the very beginning, no, Mrs. Oubigna, from this blackmail, but from the objective of what it has to guide us is not... and allow me to say it, right? because since 2005 I have asked on repeated occasions, up to torture, in these last three years, who can launch that way that we have to do sometimes in parliaments women who suffer from macho violence, and how we don't have the ability to rise above all that and think that every step we take, every piece of legislation that we have established, every concert we have created, has much more transcendence than we really believe. Because thirty years ago we had almost no words to name her, and today we're legislating. I am those two basic aspects that I put on the table: that it be throughout the year its provision and that it is included in the deal. I would like to have a moment to talk to all the honourable Members and spokesmen, because I just heard this as you just heard it. And this is not a question of the Bloc, the PP, the PSOE, the AGE, the Joint Group, of any of the women Members we are in this House, if not really, as honourable Members, I believe – and allow me in repeated words of Marcela Lagarde – that we are primarily political because we are women and for women, we believe that this can be a legacy that we leave there and a collective work. If we agree, I at least compromise myself with all the capacity and capacity that my neurons have to make synapses available to us in the remaining time to get a text that is a text that serves and that we also get to overcome this concept of politics like telling us electoralist things when really what we were talking about is: is it better for the women of Greece to apply for this benefit throughout the year and that we include women who suffer from treatment? Yes. If so, we compromise our efforts. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The second point is the debate taking into account the Proposal for a Law, the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, for the reform of Law 2/2016, of 10 February, of the soil of Galicia Debate taken into account by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, for the reform of Law 2/2016, of 10 February, of the soil of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u19	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I can't thank the advisor with competence in this matter, because he's not here. You'll probably have more important issues to do, or you probably don't even want to look for a law that's showing more holes than a grumpy cheese. A few weeks ago it was approved in this House, ladies and gentlemen, the new Land Law, Law 2/2016. He told us then to the Counsellor, whom I have to quote in his absence because he is not present, and not because of this Member – I suppose – that this law was presented as a guarantee of the stability necessary for the sustainable development of our community. He also pointed out that one of his main objectives was to bet on rural development, that rural people are a living rural, says the Counsellor. And he kept saying he offered legal security in planning, apart from a greater agility in his processing, that he even recorded a 75% reduction in the time it would take time to process a general municipal management plan. Words, only words, none of them certain, and in addition few times the words were so rejected by the subsequent facts. The first denial had to do with the immediate adoption of a change of law. It is the law that beats the greatest record: before it entered into force, it had to be modified. In the last few days, and already after introducing this bill to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have heard from another that it has motivated the request by our urgent audience of the Counsellor's, that it did not have good and that it did not happen until today, and that today the recital. And there is information published in the Official Journal of Galicia concerning the opening of a negotiator procedure for the discrepancy expressed with the General Administration of the State and referred to nine articles of the law, in particular to 22.d) 30, 31, 34, 42.6, 85.1, 129, 130 and 131. These discrepancies are manifested for the purposes provided for in Article 3.2 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which is only the warning of an appeal of unconstitutionality; i.e. that a nine-month negotiating period should be opened for the peaceful remedy of discrepancies or otherwise the General Administration of the State should carry out its functions. We're not talking about balladic themes, but about absolutely trunky themes and law determinants. 22.(d) 30 and 42.6 regulate the assignment of 10% of regulated average use in the State Soil Law, and which here exempts certain cases from the fulfilment of that obligation. Articles 31 and 34 regulate the rustic soil and the rustic soil of special protection, categories covering 93% of our territory – 28,000 square kilometers [29,500 sq km] that make up the territory of Galicia –. And Articles 85.1, 129, 130 and 131 regulate the procedures for the acquisition of land by public administrations, and very specifically the procedure for forced expropriation, direct occupation, etc. So we don't talk about balladisms. We're talking about issues that if, in fact, there was a resource of unconstitutionality and if they were suspended in the law, the law would be absolutely useless, absolutely empty, and all the municipalities in Galicia and the general plans in processing would have a very serious problem with the classification of rustic soil. I repeat: 95% of your territory. Well, apart from this subject, on which I repeat again today this request, which had already been made by the Counsellor's own request – I will reiterate his request for an appearance – we are going to speak today of the two timely amendments proposed by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. These are two very simple punctual changes, but they are going to solve very serious problems that are being detected since the application, the entry into force of this law. The first of these changes refers to paragraph 4 of the first transitional provision, which regulates the situation of the municipalities without general planning. Maybe the first thing we should say is what are the municipalities without general planning. Luckily it's not just the ones that don't have a general plan, it's the ones that don't have a general plan or municipal subsidiary rules. I mean, in this category are the municipalities that only have urban soil delimitation or that have no own planning instrument. In total, 58 municipalities in Galicia, of which 51 have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, and 7, more than 5,000 inhabitants. For these councils what establishes the new Land Law, which is, by the way, quite contradictory in its drafting, says – paragraph 4 (a): "Only on land that deserves the condition of consolidated urban soil can be built." Obviously, in the 42 municipalities where there is no figure of planning, no consolidated urban soil is recognized; and, of course, in the 16 municipalities that have urban soil delimitation, it is only delimited that soil, but the rest of the municipal term remains out. In such a way that, by applying the law, no license could be granted in any case in a municipality and, in other cases, in the vast majority of the municipality, not even to make a farm farm. We believe that this must be improved, it must be clarified, it must be avoided the problem that this will pose to the mayors affected, 58, in its vast majority of the People's Party, by the way – all must be said. So we propose a timely change, circumscribing the ban on building up urban soil, saying that in urban soil only one can be built in the consolidated and, in addition, applying provincial subsidiary rules, which in this law disappear, which are replaced by the Autonomic Basic Plan, which does not exist, is neither in development nor in processing and is not expected to exist until a period of two to four years. The second amendment, Your Honor, is even more simple. This first one is large and important because it affects municipalities with a total population of 200,000 inhabitants. The second is even more simple. And it's a problem that expressly creates the law; where there wasn't, create it. In the previous law, in the law which was in force until 19 March, it was established in a transitional provision – No. 11 – that the agricultural and livestock holdings existing in the soil of the rural nucleus or in rustic soil prior to 2002 could continue their activity, they could even reform themselves, modernize themselves and even increase their size by 50%. With that transitional provision of Law 9/2002, a resolution was given to a very serious problem that arose at the time, which were farm farms located in rural core soil, which sometimes because it rehabilitated the house by the side of a neighbor who perhaps did not live there usually, or because he was a public official or perhaps had a completely different activity from the rest, and who immediately presented a complaint to those who had been living there saying: this lord has cows, he has pigs, they smell bad, they cause trouble, he closes his activity. And in many places, of course here in Santiago, we had to attend court judgments. I put a case, an example, of a parish here, Caesar: two neighbors who are going to live, airport workers, and they force the only neighbor of the people, of the village, who has an agricultural exploitation, to close their agricultural exploitation, with 80 cows, because it bothered those who rehabilitated the house on the side, and in judicial order it had to be closed. To solve this, that transitional provision number 11 was provided. In the transitional provision fourth of the new law, which theoretically picks up transitional provision 11 of the previous law, disappears the concept of rural core and refers exclusively to rustic soil. What are you saying to us since Galician Union? There's no problem, because in the rural center the municipal plan solves. Perfect. We have 58 municipalities that don't have general planning and we have 256 municipalities that do. Of course, what we are offering since the People's Party and since the Galician Union is a very simple procedure: instead of putting five words of the fourth transitional provision that would solve the problem, we tell them to change 256 plans and 58 that they have no plan to do it, a quick and agile procedure where there are them; in fifteen years 91 general plans have been established in Galicia and now we propose that they change 256 before the month of September; a quick procedure where there are them. And I have to tell you, Your Honor, that, by the way, the Galician Rural Development Plan is currently being adopted and in force, which runs until September so that agricultural holdings, including those in rural soil, can be accommodated to reform, modernise themselves and accommodate their subsidies. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that European legislation requires, so that these subsidies can be implemented, they have municipal licenses, and we say, no, the Union washes its hands, the problem is with the mayor. To solve this issue, we draw an instruction – which is one of the biggest pieces of hair I know – a clarification instruction, which could be reduced to one single line: in the soil of the rural nucleus it will depend on what the municipal planning says, and that was clear. Here you write five or seven pages, turning it around so that it doesn't look like it, but the conclusion is that the rural core soil depends exclusively on municipal planning, knowing that none of the plans that are in force in Galicia envisages this change, because until 2010 was not incorporated into Galicia's Land Law and so it would have to modify them practically all. And what we do here is an absolute mistake, in which we transfer responsibility to the mayors, who will be forced to give the license assuming the risks and responsibilities that may arise if in their planning it is not contemplated or taking an express procedure to amend that plan that is not compatible with the procedures that require the modification of that plan. I must remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the timely modification of planning requires the same procedures, procedures, sectoral reports and exposure to the public as the preparation of the planning itself, is subject to the same procedure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that if the People's Party has the commitment it says to Galician rural people, it will take the process of this change on time, beyond that in the process of processing, if there is something that is not properly judged on the socialist proposal, we can nude it in order to give a legally valid solution, which gives legal certainty both to mayors and to those who ask for licenses, and which allows a problem that we have just created to thousands of citizens of this autonomous community. What you are voting on, especially those of the People's Party, who are the majority of this Parliament, we will know whether they are sincere or not about their commitment to rural life. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u22	Good morning to all and to all. Well, I want to start with how this plenary began, talking about discrimination and the need for legislation on behalf of the weakest part of society, on the part that this whole crisis is suffering the most. We started with a law that asked for the necessary support for women victims of gender-based and trafficking violence. Now we're also going to talk about legislating to support agricultural and rural farms at a very delicate time, and I want to remember today, in my first intervention, and I also want to express my rejection of the work homicide in Navantia-Fene last Thursday. They're homicides. Every time a worker dies because of lack of work security measures, we talk about homicides. So we have a lot of outstanding things in this Parliament that we could improve by changing the rules and being a little sensitive to what is happening to society, but we really have walls that make it impossible. Today we are going to talk again about what we have already dealt with in committee and what as a non-law proposition we have already dealt with in this plenary. I had the hope, when it came to committee, that the People's Party had put into practice its promise to approach society and to allow the debate of that bill to be continued with the appearance of collectives and technicians with knowledge in the matter for the elaboration of a new text which had been adopted by consensus of all parliamentary groups. But the People's Party alone approved a Land Law that renounces to design with the participation of trade unions, employers, peasants, ecologists, culturalists and experts a sustainable model that respects the architectural, natural and landscaped heritage, reduces conflict and legal insecurity and guarantees the right to housing, to the protection of the rustic soil, the coastline and the banks of rivers and rivers. Finally, as we predicted at that time, Law 2/2016, of the soil, will have little to go through, as it will be modified by the new government that will come out of the polls this year. The debate today confirms it. As we said in the refund amendment, this law contains definitions that do not improve the current situation or create new niches of conflict. The conflicts which Law 2/2016 created in the rural world are part of the very definition of the rustic soil category of agricultural protection, linked only to high productivity, without taking into account other aspects inherent to our rural world. And the definition of rural core soil is reduced to administratively identify in censuses and patterns without taking into account circumstances of another kind that demonstrate rational nesting of the nucleus with the physical environment where it is located. Some of these conflicts are aimed at correcting it by the Socialist Party with this bill. Much of the regulation of matters collected in the law remains pending of development instruments, so it is essential, as the Socialist Party calls for in this bill, that, as long as the autonomous basic plan, not provided for in this law, the subsidiary rules for implementation do not come into force. The proposal to amend the fourth transitional provision has already been discussed in committee and in full and the People's Party has always voted against, claiming that Law 2/2016, of 10 February, of Galician soil, does not prohibit such installations, but only permits depend solely on the municipalities. But I insist, as I insisted on the debate in the middle of the non-law proposal: it is not the same as being authorized or allowed. According to the RAE – since the dictionary of the Royal Gallega Academy does not appear the term – "legistal" is all that is not regulated or prohibited; "legal" is all that is prescribed by law and is according to it; "legistal" is all that is not according to the law. We are therefore faced with a situation of an allusivity of the constructions and installations located in rustic soil or in rural core soil which are intended for activities linked to the exploitation and support of agricultural and first processing of agricultural and forestry products. Therefore, they are not legal, since their permanence is not prescribed by law, but they are not illegal, since their permanence is not contrary to the law unless it is expressly prohibited by it. The pre-existing agricultural facilities in the rural core are therefore located in the field of sordidity, where they may or may not be authorised in accordance with the general plan of each municipality. Agricultural activity, like any other economic activity, requires regulatory regulation that covers and gives you the legal security needed to make investments. Indeed, I agree with the Socialist Party that the current wording of the Law on the ground does not offer such legal certainty and seriously harms the already excessively punished exploitations of Greek farmers. But in addition, it doesn't seem very coincidentally that popular party disgust with giving legal security to the agricultural sector with the presentation of the rural development plan electoral pre-package, with an investment of 1,186 million, for the modernization of agricultural holdings when it leaves many of them out of this law because of their state of claim. But it doesn't seem to complicate any more the production of the Greek agricultural sector. It's going to be the solution to recover young population in the rural world linked to agricultural or livestock production, but also to the related industry. We will therefore support the consideration of this bill, which will allow us to reconsider these and other issues that define the policies of our country's growth, of cohesion of our territory, of our environment, of our productive sectors and of our model of life, because all this is limited or delimited by what is exposed to the Law of the Land. We therefore hope that this time the People's Party will approve these amendments, which aim only to safeguard the Greek agricultural and forestry sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u24	Good morning. Little would have to be added after Mr Bugallo's exposition, with which I often disagree but of what one cannot say he doesn't know what he's talking about and doesn't make arguments, arguments too. In this case, moreover, I agree: he made an exposition in which he explained the current situation, his proposals and highlighted the need for these changes and some more. When Mr. Feijó's government is balanced, with a view to it, there will be the real disaster and the main feature of a government based on advertising and propaganda, in the lack of rigor, in the lack of a comprehensive project for the country and which has led to the coup d'improvisation of effect, with continuous improvisation, patching up issues that cannot be patched up and that would have to be dealt with in a much more serious and committed way with the country. One of these issues that Mr Feijóo has not addressed was the challenge of equipping this country with the instruments for territorial management, which provides a basis for environmentally sound and socially balanced economic development. He didn't face it. It was a constant adaptation of legislation to specific issues or problems that arose along the way, practically year-to-year modifications to the year of legislation, and therefore a legislation that was not a guide to the operation of this country. We've already said, when this Land Law was approved, that it was a low-flying, short-range land law, and that it would have to be constantly modified by the waves it presented. We don't cheat, a law on Galician soil must be for 20 years and not for 20 days. And this is not an exaggeration, nor did it take 20 days to change the Law of the ground. And the seams have been coming from the zero minute, and they see a lack of project for the country, but they also see weaknesses in rigor and in contrast to reality. Weaknesses that I think we must have the will to solve. We believe that the solution will not be in the timely changes to this law. The solution is going to have to be in a writing of a law that answers the real problems of this country. It is true that an important issue that Mr Bugallo mentioned, and that we cite in the previous debate of the non-law-proposal of the Socialist Party, are the discrepancies expressed by the State, prior to the resort of unconstitutionality, with fundamental articles. We ask the counsellor to explain the content of these discrepancies. We fear that they will attack the heart of the transformations of this law, especially in the rustic soil. And no wonder, no wonder, the great change of this law, the great change, is in the rustic soil, the deprotection of the rustic soil, the only regime of uses for all categories of the rustic soil, etc. And here there are discrepancies with the articles both in the definition of the rustic soil and in the categories. Just as there are also disagreements with that forgive 10% of the assignment when the works are promoted by the Public Administration, which has already been done at its time to measure, for example, the Harbour Authority of the Crown, to keep that 10% and not give it to the Town Hall of the Crown. There's a need to make a land law for this country. It's in the valley, and it won't be worth it, it's already being seen. And even these problems we can see the opposition in the German Parliament, that would not be problematic for the People's Party; but the People's Party knows that those who are most denouncing the content of this law are even mayors of the People's Party. And that's it, and, if not, let Mr. Castineira come here and deny it. The mayors who have to deal with this law on a daily basis are the first to report whether or not they are from the party. Because who gives a face here are mayors, right, Mr. Castineira? That's right. Then, at least, if they don't care about us, they hang on to them. And already entering into the specific issues that this law proposes to us, we will support admission, take into consideration, even though we could then make, if it succeeds, certain changes to writing. As has been said, refer to the first transitional provision – the number 4 –, the first transitional provision to which we have already formulated amendments within the 138 existing ones, which means that in general planning municipalities the rustic soil regime established in this law would apply. So it seems to us an inappropriate nonsense, since in the current writing it turns out that in the entire term of these municipalities the rustic soil regime will apply, which can only be built in the consolidated urban soil but by applying the conditions of use and construction of the rustic soil. It means that it wouldn't even make much sense to achieve urban soil building, consolidated with the conditions of use and construction of rustic soil; at least not to us. The delimitations of the rural core soil maintain their vigency, but it cannot be built on them, a question that we lack entirely logical. In addition, the Council seeks to apply the provincial subsidiary rules of 1990. It is not possible, because they were repealed according to the first transitional provision itself and the derogating provision of Galician Soil Law. The rustic soil regime that is directly regulated in this Galician soil law applies. We believe that the proposed amendment does not completely solve this problem, but it does denounce an ejacist who has this law. And, therefore, in the subsequent process, if taken into account, we would have an opportunity to make our amendments, which I believe would complement this proposal. And as for the fourth transitional provision, we have already discussed it at the previous plenary meeting. We already recognize here that it is true that we do not present amendments on this point. We interpreted that it was correctly resolved. Now, we also explain that, once this amendment has been tabled here, there are reasons to support it, and the reasons are a total guarantee on a question which unfortunately will not pose any problem in the country of serious impact, that there will be a flood of new gainful holdings or a flood of expansions of gainful holdings, unfortunately. So if we take stock of the problems that can be encountered in these 58 municipalities, or in municipalities where the plan is not adjusted, or where there are certain urban interests in limiting agricultural activities, if we put that on one side, and on the other, which unfortunately there will not be, is to serve basically the farms that are today's present, the needs of today's farms and taking into account the circumstances of today's farms, I think it is fair to reconsider our position, and we recognize that it was our position, and also the position of the Government. We understood that it was not that enlargements or constructions of agricultural farms were prohibited in rural soil, but that it is true that they depend on municipal planning. But once it's analyzed that there are cases where there's no planning and perhaps there's not in a long time, agricultural holdings could be in a difficult situation. And that's also why even the Council recognises that there is a problem when it draws that instruction that aims to answer and that, as we have already said here, for us, it does not answer. An instruction does not provide legal certainty for mayors to make those decisions, it's not enough. And that's why we think this aspect of the Land Law needs to be changed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u25	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, I think we can assert without any exaggeration that one of the subjects that we have surely collectively suspended as the people of the Greeks and the Greeks is to provide us with an instrument of management of our territory, from an urban point of view, appropriate to the needs of our country. It has been said on many occasions in this Parliament that something fails in a legislation when it has to be changed ten times, twelve times, within ten or fifteen years. That is why I think that we all and everyone applauded in some way when the Government of Galician Union considered that for the elaboration of this law on the ground of Galicia would be based on the holding of a commission of study in this Parliament, in which opinions from all economic, social, sectoral, and professional areas would be appropriate, which could have something to say about how urbanism should be, but also the use of our country's territory. What's going on? The fact that this committee was actually held, that committee was very interested, was very important on the part of different social areas. But what we could finally see, once the bill arrives on its day sent by the Government of Galician Union to this Parliament, is that the Government and the People's Party have an auditory problem, or at least one problem of listening or selective receptiveness, because there are certain areas where many of the suggestions or issues raised, but others in which there was no such receptiveness. I am referring primarily to what we believe has been lost once again an opportunity for this law to be used to have an integral conception of what urbanism and the management of the territory should be at the service, or in function, of its social interest, its territorial interest, its demographic interest, its economic development interest and the service of the productive economy, and not only to the service of speculative interests. The opportunity was lost – despite the fact that in 2002 it was already put to the law the so-called "rural environment" – to make a real rural environment ordination based on the interests of the rural environment and not simply tilting between two concepts: a conception of the rural environment only as an element of enjoyment of the urbanities and, on the other hand, a rural environment that can be used to depreciate according to these economic interests. We also saw with disappointment that none of the ten objectives that Mr Hernández had in his day had been met when he first introduced this bill: that he had a consensus, that no council was left without PXOM, to end with fessimism, to give stability and legal certainty, co-responsibility, security, efficiency, administrative simplification, clarity and transparency. Just four months after the passing of this law, we see that, stability, nothing, because you've already had a change. And it is true, as Mr. Sánchez Bugallo said, that all the marks were beaten here and for there. In twenty days a law was changed, not even if it was able to foresee in the processing of the law, in the conception of the law, that it could respond to situations like those that occurred in Vigo. Legal security, none. There is no legal certainty in a law that is being subjected to this study by a possible presentation of an unconstitutional remedy by the Government of the State. But there is also no legal certainty in a law that is so confusing that no urban technician in the municipalities – who have to apply it – or no secretary or secretary – who have to make legal reports – are able to know in some respects what interpretation is adjusted by law. Legal security in a law that, with four months of antiquity, had to be the object of that famous instruction, of which we have already spoken here in the past, to eventually clarify the interpretation of that transitional provision. So since the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block, we are going to vote in favour of taking into account this bill made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, although our distances with this law are much more than these two point issues that are set out in this bill. But if we believe that periphery, the urgent need to respond to some of the problems that triggers drafting both the first transitional provision and the fourth transitional provision, they make it essential that this be addressed with the utmost urgency. The distances of the Galician Nationalist Block with this law are, as I said, many, because there is still no conception of urbanism in the service of the people, as I said earlier. It remains to be overlooked that great built, abandoned heritage, which exists in our country, at the same time, for example, that previous regulation is maintained with respect to urbanizables, which, as all of you know, end up being an instrument that is mainly used to build urbanizations in such picturesque places and then so threatened by forest fires, or also another kind of quite questionable facilities in relation to the economic development of our country. As for the specific issues which are intended to be amended through this proposal for a law, in which it reaches the first transitional provision, we believe that it is essential to introduce this amendment, because, on the contrary, it would be prevented that although many of the councils of those who have no general plan or subsidiary rules are clearly rural and that it is not to be expected that there can be a great urban development and, unfortunately, no great demographic movement, however, we believe that at least the fewer obstacles exist from a legal point of view, if there is any kind of economic initiative for rural development, etc., better; and even linked to the question referred to by Mr Sánchez Bugallo, both in writing and in his intervention, as is the possibility to opt for investments in the Rural Development Plan. With regard to the amendment of the fourth transitional provision – which we have already discussed here in a non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group, defended in that case by Mr García in the last plenary –, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has referred ourselves back to the motion already made in the previous plenary. We fully agree that such a provision needs to be amended. And I just want to take advantage to tell Mr. Castineira Broz – who accused me of not knowing whether to lie or twist reality when in that plenary I said that we were the only group that we tabled an amendment to that provision – that today they did bring the amendment. I've got her here in case you want to see her. It is Amendment No 86 that this parliamentary group on its day made the fourth transitional provision and that, if it had been accepted or negotiated, it could have prevented it from today -- yes, yes, yes, yes, Mr. Castineira Broz -- we were debating this issue, at least as far as the fourth transitional provision is concerned. [[Mr. Castineira Broz utters words that are not perceived.]] And I'm going to reiterate the favourable vote of this group on the consideration of this bill, which, I insist, will not solve the serious effects of conception that the Galician Land Law has, but at least it can put an end to timely problems that are being detected in the municipalities and that are being detected by people who have some rural development project, expansion or improvement of their agricultural, livestock or forestry operations and that with this law in many cases they would be prevented from improving those farms. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mrs Peace, indeed, they have an amendment tabled, but do not confuse some changes that you proposed in rustic soil, in the agricultural installations in rustic soil, where an extension was assumed within 50 per cent that would be allowed to expand – they even put limitations to that enlargement depending on the occupation of the plot and other areas – with the agricultural installations that exist in the rural nucleus. Not a single word to include the word rural nucleus, which is what comes now. Don't confuse. So you have to say things as they are. It's not much less, Mrs. Peace. And that's what I was referring to a few days ago in this plenary room when it came to the proposal not of Mr Bugallo's law, or of the Socialist Party. And, Mr. Sánchez, I feel that I now have little time to look at things well; it was courteous and I understand it. But, look, it doesn't exist in the derogatory provision or a single word to the derogation from provincial subsidiary rules; no, because they haven't been repealed, so simply; there isn't a single word. And it is clear that what is derogated is Law 9/2002 – and that goes to Mr Bugallo exactly the same –; certain articles and aspects of other regulations are derogated, but not provincial subsidiary rules. And, man, to say that this Joint Government has not acted in land management, look, there's the Coastal Management Plan, there's the Land Management Guidelines, there's this new Land Law, and of course, if you want, we can even add the Housing Law. Therefore, it is not precisely one of the factors of weakness – i.e., the development of legislation in spatial planning. Mr. Bugallo, you'd end up saying sincerity or not with the countryside. And I wrote those words because I like sincerity. And, of course, if we talk about rural, there's nothing better than talking about cheese, about Gruyère cheese, which, if it's good, has no holes; what has holes is the Imental. Elementary, Mr. Bugallo!, that's it, and you tell our rural people, you sure know. We continue with sincerity and see his proposal. I hope the other groups that will support it will take it into account and read it. The first paragraph begins – moreover, with italics; I always understood that what comes between quotes and italics was a faithful reflection of what is meant, of what is written, so to speak – point 4 – eats, italics –... listen, this is not what the fourth transitional provision of the law says, that is not what it says. You take a drop of the first paragraph, another one of the second and no longer copy or the next one, but mix the two, and it's not. That's a faithful reflection of the Socialist Party's interpretation, but that's called manipulation, Mr. Bugallo. And there's not the candidate, who, of course, was what he said... I'd be colored, because yes, we have to say things as they are. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, the transitional provision says, "In municipalities without general planning," and you say, "Only you can..." – already raise to the next paragraph. No, look, "in municipalities without general planning will apply the rustic sole regime established in this law with the following peculiarities...". If you have no planning, the logical thing is that everything is considered rustic soil, with the uses and facilities that are allowed in the corresponding articles – from 35 onwards – of the Land Law, among other things, agricultural installations in rustic soil. Yes, Mr Bugallo, yes, with the following particularities...; logically, it can only be allowed in the urban soil, only in the consolidated urban soil – which is considered to be consolidated – or in the one that meets the conditions of consolidation, with small infrastructure works, which is as laid down in the law, in Article 17(a) is where it defines that type of soil. And the delimitations of soil in the rural core will maintain their vigil. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, many of these municipalities that have neither subsidiary rules nor general plan define rural cores. And those rural nuclei, these delimitations, maintain their vigency; therefore, the provisions established in the ordinance of those nuclei remain vigant, and there it can be built up what is allowed in that nucleus delimitation. So it's not necessary or much less that change, unless you intend to make these big urbanizations or other urban development, which is normally not done. And the subsidiary provincial planning rules are still in force until the Autonomic Basic Plan is approved, which will be what replaces them, as simple as that. We move on to the second point -- Mr. Sánchez, read carefully because you'll see how right I am and how it's going around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, another subject where the truth is missing, Mr. Bugallo – and that's very serious –. You make a relationship here with municipalities, 59, and of these 59 municipalities – that you can check, Mr. Sánchez, it's very easy if you have time – 39 have subsidiary municipal planning rules. That means they're not affected by the transitional provision in 1.4, but it's 1.2... No, it's not a mess; the mess you're doing, you're messing with people, that's what you're doing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's not the same as paragraph 4 applies to you that paragraph 2, it's not the same or much less, and that's what you're reading, mixing. The same thing as a series of municipalities – four, in particular – that have a decree to suspend their urban regulations, and there is paragraph 3 of the transitional provision, which is precisely for those municipalities. So don't mix it up because you're in precipice and what you want is noise, exactly the same noise that they made at the time with the Water Law, with the counters that would put in the wells, remember? It's the same noise they try to do, and manipulate and cheat. And as for point 2 – which we've had here before the debate the other day – of the fourth transitional provision, it's very simple: whether or not the agricultural installations in the countryside are left out of management. They have come to say – and say it here – that they are out of order. But have you really read article 90 of this law? One of the conditions of the law itself is that there are no edifices out of management, except for those which are occupied by the public, which are in green zone or which are intended for public equipment. Is there a green zone above them in the rural core facilities? So, Mr. Bugallo, you participated in the presentation, please read article 90 and tell the House what article 90 of this law says with the management areas. It's one of the very things we assume. We worked to get many buildings from the various municipalities that were out of order with the previous law to just stay in a regulated situation, something that they were out of order with before. And then there's a very clear situation, here's only two possibilities: either they're the agrarian farms in the nucleus, or there's planning or a nucleus delimitation or there's no. If they are municipalities that do not have any kind of urban regulations, that means that if they are applied to the rustic soil: in rustic soil you can expand all existing ones before 1 January 2003 – which was the entry date of the previous Land Law –. You can expand to 50% even if you do not comply with the parameters set out in Article 39 – i.e. surface, boundaries, etc., of a series of things – you can expand to 50%, and I think there is no doubt about that. And that's in all the municipalities – all of them, Mr. Sánchez, that you said: those municipalities that have no planning – in those, agricultural facilities, no problems, just rustic. And in those municipalities that have planning, it's the municipalities themselves that will decide. If all the plans are prior to the previous Land Law – and therefore they are not adapted to Law 9/2002 – that means that these uses were not prohibited and that means that neither the new ones nor the enlargements are prohibited. If enlargement is not prohibited in kernel sorting, Mr. Sánchez is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a democratic country where what is not allowed is not allowed, and the law does not prohibit the expansion of existing installations in the countryside. If this zoom is not specifically forbidden in general plans, it is allowed, as simple. And that's what comes to clarify – especially some socialist, who apparently did not understand – the instruction that took the advice. Clearly, because it's very clear in the law. [[Murmurs.]] Whatever he wants to interpret in any other way he and his manipulation! Moreover, the law itself clearly benefits from the installation and expansion of existing installations in rural areas. And to that, there were amendments from you -- from almost all groups -- who wanted to even expand or maintain the minimum plot of 5,000 square meters, and the plot goes from 5,000 to 2,000, which means it's more permissive with rural. The distances between existing installations in rustic soil and housing are also reduced, both rural core and not 200 to 100 meters. It used to include even the house itself and they didn't say anything. Therefore, if it is more favourable to the implantation and maintenance of rural facilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u30	As for the bilateral Commission – from which several groups have spoken here – it is an issue of interpretation that we are convinced that it will be clarified in the interpretation process. And I just want to tell you to make it clear that the articles that are in that bilateral commission or that are questioned by the State are true copies of Law 9/2002, precisely those paragraphs, and what they question comes from the previous law, there is absolutely no change. And it's funny that you don't exactly claim maintenance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u31	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u32	...and they help the government in this case, because we are demanding precisely the powers of the Autonomous Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u33	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Author group of the bill, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u34	Thank you very much again, Mr President. I hope, like Mr. Castineira, he'll give me two more minutes because... well, of course, the same time he gave him too much. [[Mr. Santalices Vieira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mr. Castineira, there are a few words I'm going to repeat to you now, hold it and not amend it, and there's a companion of mine who said to me: ask you if you have a problem with comprehensive reading. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think you don't have any problem with understanding reading. I think what happens here is something else, the truth is very simple to explain, the lie requires great explanations, and above all the lie has a problem, which is that there is always to stand against all evidence. I'll try to give you some evidence of these things. Out of order, article 90 – please – out of order has two concepts: when it's on the ground, actually, it's doubling and when it's not, and it's got two different treatments. But out of order are both: one, obviously, has no solution, and the other allows different treatment through urban planning. Let's go on, there's a different treatment going on, but it's still out of order. Second, municipalities with planning and no planning. Look, the definition of municipalities without planning does not give it to me, it gives the economic and financial study of the Land Law itself, which is a file accompanying it and which on its page 22 says: "They will be considered not to have planning those who only have delimitation of urban soil and those that are governed by provincial subsidiary rules." Definition not mine, it's from the law itself. Second important issue, where does that relationship come from? So look, this relationship is the one that comes out of the board's website, I took it down from there and here I have the documents. Don't tell me you're not, no, they're here, and I've got the counseling papers that are where this council relationship comes from; it's not invented by my group, it's downloaded from the boarding website. Third thing that I'd like to clarify, another most gruesome lie that was said here. Positive administrative silence if the report is not issued in due time. You know what the regulation says, you know what it says? Finally, clarifications on the application for sectoral reports. He says, "The time limit for the issuance of reports shall be set in its respective regulations. After the corresponding deadline without the report being notified to the council, the council may continue its proceedings, and so far, "When it comes to binding preceptive reports, it will maintain its effectiveness and should be taken into account." I mean, positive administrative silence is a saducian trap, the county that pays attention to it and continues processing can be found a year later in a report that throws the planning to the ground. That's what the regulation says. I'm going to tell you more, you know what the regulation says, too? Look, when I tell you that the provisions, that provincial subsidiary rules are abolished, it's because all the regulations on which they are based are abolished. And, therefore, lacks virtuality, the urban legislation is abolished, and in case there was some doubt, in the chapter of derogations from the regulation you will see that even the only one that could be accommodated, which was the state regulation of the year 78, is also abolished its application in Galicia. So they're abolished because all regulations on which they found support have disappeared. And second, and lastly – and this is the right thing – all the instructions you take out, six pages giving you round and dwindling the partridge so it looks like it says what it doesn't say, at the end of the day what they say is that the competition to grant license for an extension of a farm-gander in core soil is municipal. Licence is a regulated, non-discretional act, no license is given because it is not prohibited; in order for a license to be given it must be expressly contemplated and it must be allowed, it cannot be given a license because as no one forbids it, it does not! it must be contemplated. And the planning in force doesn't contemplate it, because it wasn't foreseen by the Land Law until 2010. So, what you're giving people as a solution is that they change subsidiary rules, modify their planning so you can license them. Tell the mayors they're going to license without legal protection and without prejudice to the right of third parties, we'll see what trouble they're getting into and what happens to the municipalities that don't have a plan in place. I repeat, that of provincial subsidiary rules is a lie, and if they don't get a resolution saying they're still in force, that they pull out the council, and they don't pull it out, and they don't pull it out, even though it's been asked here, because they don't dare sign that role, and because the counselor doesn't have anyone to swallow it, and they pass the death to the mayors, including those of the People's Party. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this law is going to be changed, not as Mrs. Consuelo said when between another government; among other governments or not among another government, this is going to be changed, because it generates such conflicts that it has no other solution. Finally, I would like to thank the support of the groups that have supported us. I want to tell the Block you're right. These changes don't solve the problem of law, they just want to save the problem that today has many mayors and hundreds of farmers-gandering farms that are in rural core soils and that will have a very serious problem because no one will be able to license them, and if they give them their chance and adventure, and their head as well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u35	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. One minute 19 seconds. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u36	We therefore turn to the votes of the legislative texts. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, which creates and regulates a periodic economic benefit for women who suffer from gender-based violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71. The voting is positive. This consideration is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u37	It is therefore accepted to take account of this proposal and this bill follows its parliamentary procedure. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, for the reform of Law 2/2016, of the 10 February, of the soil of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u38	We move on to the second point of the agenda. The opinion of Mrs. Counsellor of the Sea, on his own request, to inform of the conclusions obtained in the days which the Welsh fisheries sector has developed under the title Tracking directions for the future
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u39	To make the appearance, you have the word of the Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. I compare today in this House to realize a job that, although it was effectively held on the days of May 3 and 4, it began early this year following the star of the event during these seven years of mandate which was entrusted to this team of the Council of the Sea. I'm telling them to talk and listen to the sector, to know their problems, concerns and demands and to put them back together, as far as the possibilities and competences we have given them are concerned. I'm talking about working to solve complex problems without using magic veins. Anyone who thinks that easy solutions are panacea for a sector that owns more than half of Spain's maritime fishing jobs and 10% of the European Union is wrong. Anyone who thinks that the recipes of miracle improvement contain the future for a sector that makes the gross added value of fisheries and aquaculture 25 times higher than that of the European Union is wrong. Who thinks that the competitiveness and sustainability of the sector is facing the sectors and discarding the importance of the Greek custodian and aquaculture sector, where we are a productive reference in Europe, is wrong. We firmly believe that there is only one way that the fishing, seafood and aquaculture sector, and its sea-industry chain, go ahead, conjuncting all forces and proposals. In this spirit of dialogue, these fishing days were born with a vocation of continuity and periodicity to address the most pressing problems in the sector and its proposals on an annual basis. These days, which were already coming to light with the sector last summer, came to an end in the course of the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, held on 17 March with the general contents that were highlighted there. To start walking, we focus on two big blocks: the situation of TACs and quotas as the fundamental problem of the fleet, and the internal debate itself to propose issues of discussion and analysis. Apart from TACs and quotas, it has been treated since the analysis of relative stability as a factor of imbalance which leaves us at a disadvantage compared to other countries and which can mark the future of the fleet itself. The internal debate between the sector has developed without intermediaries, the sector has spoken with and for the sector, only the table has been divided to discuss the issues between the fleet of the north-west Cantabrian national calator and the one of high and high height. As for the rapporteurs, we have tried to deal with these issues in a broad way in the vision, so a total of eight experts from the management of the sector and the scientific world and the 13 members of the sector have been voiced. All of Galicia's confrereries were invited to these days, through their representatives, over thirty representative entities in the sector, and all the members of the plenary of the Galician Fisheries Council. Freedom of intervention was maximum, no time was limited to anyone, giving rise to important debates that gave rise to a series of conclusions that were shared with the sector itself. These same conclusions are the ones I intend to move them right now, also reviewing the people who have acted as rapporteurs and have been an active part of these days. But let me make it preliminary, and given a general pattern expressed by all participants and rapporteurs, let me point out four terms that were the driving thread of these days that addressed the future of the sector: unity, arguments, strategy and public awareness. In this sense, these days have determined the need for action in favour of the Welsh fishing activity to provide it with future resources in terms of viability and sustainability. For this purpose, it has been underlined that this action will go through a fundamental issue that lies within the unit of action, regardless of the dissociation of circumstances and solutions that can be applied to the different fleets in Greece, especially those of low relative to those of high or high height. Thus, that action must be supported by solid, scientifically supported arguments, and endowed with a movement that follows a clear and efficient strategy, so that a constant review of the tactics will be made to ensure the effectiveness of the initiative. In addition, I have done the necessary foundation in public awareness of the importance and involvement of fishing, reverting negative visions through the generation of a teaching that starts from the fishing sector towards society in general. The first of the sessions discussed relative stability as the main element of fisheries management, involved experts in public law, maritime law and the European Union, as well as representatives of DG MARE and the European Commission, the Map, Arvi and the FREMSS Foundation. Interventions were oriented towards shaping the vision of this evil called the principle of administration and also from the sector. The results of two studies were also put on the table, in which they were working with the Competition of the Sea Council itself, which address the possibility of legally attacking relative stability, as well as the arguments about the quantification of the ineffectivenesss that it causes in the use of TACs and quotas. In the course of this session it was stated that the evil called the principle of relative stability is revealed as a starting point for contradictions, imbalances, inconsistencies and inefficiencies in the application of fisheries policy. Issues that are aggravated by the entry into force of the obligation to land all bills and by the action of climate change on the different species of regulation based on TAC. As a result of this legal and regulatory analysis, experts have concluded that relative stability is difficult to eliminate, and it is much more feasible to modify and suit our interests. In this way, the use of the possibilities that allow us measures such as transferable quotas and their exchange or minimum exemptions, among others, has been pointed out. In any case, it should be pointed out that the first course of action, in parallel with this one, must be focused on providing a solution to the under-utilization of quotas allocated to Member States, since it is a source of food which is not being used. This means a loss of employment and wealth for fleets that do not have quotas or have scarce quotas to exchange them with those other fleets that do not consume those that have been granted to them. With regard to the possibility of access to Community legal establishments, the difficulty of the judicial initiative being admitted was made clear on a meridional basis. It was also underlined the importance of approaching and consolidating arguments in the process, deepening on the sum of solid technical, socio-economic and environmental arguments. In this sense, the need to have a firm and clear legal-normative strategy was raised. In this way, the greatest feasibility of dealing with the process through the resource allocation of quotas in areas where we have little or no percentage of strangulation species can arise. At this point, the sector itself has strongly insisted on its necessary unity and on the conjunction of the proposed action with the scientific argumentation and the support of the Administration, also directed at a parallel pathway of action based on action as lobbying before the Community decision-making framework. As regards the second session, the integration of triple propellers between scientists, fishermen and administration was addressed. It was reconvened with representatives from DG MARE and the European Commission, the Spanish Institute of Oceanography, the Technical Unit of Lowering of the Union, together with experts from the University's fishing economy. In this session, the necessary collaboration between scientists and the sector was discussed, stressing the importance of providing information to each other in order to obtain the best data and best decisions. In addition, it is relevant to the participation of different experts, who gave us the vision from complementary areas, such as biological and socio-economic. In this regard, it is important to value mutual understanding in order to expand the participation of both parties in the work and conclusions developed respectively and to increase transparency in this work in order to reduce the mutual mistrust that may exist. The good experience of simple and suitable data formulation and systematization tools, such as those of the Lower Technical Unit, has also been expressed so that progress can be made in improving the conclusions reflected in the reports and, consequently, the decisions taken in terms of fisheries management and management. Therefore, and in the line of what we have been advocating for years, it has stressed the importance of having social and economic data of fishing, in addition to contrasting and sharing the beneficial experiences with other regions or states, and the formulation of proactive reflections and actions, such as that which was subsequently proposed at the Galego Fisheries Council itself on the creation of new working groups. The third meeting had as unique protagonists the representatives of the sector themselves. The session was opened with a brief briefing by each of the rapporteurs, describing their vision of the situation and presenting possible solutions for the future in a quick and concise DAFO analysis. After a debate took place in which for more than four hours the visions of each of the participants who freely wanted to intervene were addressed. They all reflected the extent of the cases of problems and solutions that the sector may have in our fishing alley, if they have well shared the expression in identifying their situation in two common circumstances: the impact of the important adjustment made in recent years on the volumes of fishing units and the fishing capacity through definitive paralysis and, second, the common condition of the lack of quotas in sufficient quantity to have an ongoing activity. The rapporteurs also stood out in the negative influence of the excessive regulation affecting them, which derives from various administrations and competences, even overcrowded, and that it forms into an excessive bureaucracy which can diminish its competitiveness without providing additional elements in terms of social or economic performance and, in particular, security. It focused on the specific problem arising from these generic issues, which extends in the form of weaknesses and threats, such as the implementation of the obligation to land catches, the delimitation of technical measures for unnecessarily or restrictive fishing practice, such as the unwarranted extension of fishing limitations in deep waters. In addition, it has also underlined the impact of drifts on the daily practical activity of inadequate monitoring and control regulations with an impact on the normal course of fishing activity and with conditions on it. However, proposals were made in a positive way to address these issues, which would, in short, be simplified in the need to open a dialogue process that would allow for better use of the available fishing quotas for the Spanish fleets, generating a division that deepens in the operational and social circumstances of each art and to guide better management of the fishing opportunities available to each fleet. It is, therefore, about progressing in the improvement of fisheries management, with a particular impact on the exhaustive use of the quotas granted, because it cannot be that some fleets miss their quota and others about them, understanding also that they all want and must fish and that the exploitation of each species has an impact on the different fleets that capture them. The fourth session was developed in parallel to that of the Cantabria and the Northwest, had as a focal point the situation and perspectives of the fleets of high and high height, endowed with specific circumstances. At this table the representatives of each Committee of the Galego Fisheries Council, also attended, and told of the presence of representatives of fishing fleets in non-Community waters and of those engaged in non-Spanish Community waters. This table was held in the same format as that of the national pier and in it also came out common points, such as the dwindling of ships of these fleets, which deals with the good state of the sector of target species in the fishing areas where these fishing units are located and the factor, particularly in the Great Sun, concerning the availability of scarce fishing opportunities or access to waters. But in this case specific aspects have emerged in positive terms, such as the social and economic importance of this fleet in terms of units - more than 300 ships - jobs above 4,000 direct jobs and direct and derivative invoicing, as well as its involvement in the reduction and limitation of illegal unregulated and undeclared fishing. In addition, the fleet representatives made fincapé also in the involvement that these ships have with the sea-industry chain, derived from the capacity to supply fishery products to the Community market in food security conditions, as well as the involvement they also have in terms of development of the countries in which they are based, as is the case with Namibia. In this respect too, the different fleets, depending on their fishing and operational zone, showed specific problems that could be commonly condensed in the need for a stable equal competition framework with other fleets from other countries, the so-called level playing field, with influences on the inconsistencies of the European Union's sectoral fisheries and trade policies and the fight against illegal fishing. This need has special references to the obligation to disembark bodies and finining finning finning finning finning finning finning or to establish a background likely to expand to other waters or fishing areas relating to deep-sea fishing. But these fleets also showed their concern about the complexity and raginess of administrative procedures, highlighting the negative impact of issues linked to the logistics chain, influenced by transport regulations, food safety and health, or the impact of fishing authorisation regulations, such as the PTP. In practical terms, the participants raised specific questions that could respond to related problems, with particular impact on the demand for and demand for an improvement and reinforcement of the equal framework for fisheries through the demand for the strengthening of coordination between DG MARE and DG TRADE and the establishment of white lists of compliance with non-compliant fleets. On the other hand, attention has also been paid to the necessary strengthening of the fleet's competitiveness with the modernisation and/or renewal of fishing units, with particular attention to the improvement of on-board housing by allowing for increased non-productive capacity of the vessel. But with all the differences that can be made, there have been common points, which have been reflected in the possibility of that unity so demanded in terms of both problems and weaknesses as well as proposals and strengths of our fleet. They serve two aspects as an example of this common problem. The first is the implications of the commercial and value-generating structure, with the reduction of prices under the influence of the interrelationship of extractive activity and the marketer for excess supply and unfair competition. Two: the impact of the generational relief on the continuity of activity influenced by the economic profitability of fishing and the necessary improvement of the working conditions of the fisheries sector itself. That is why the need for joint and common arguments and strategies has been stressed and, if not, assistance and collaboration between fleets in different areas, be it in the North-West Cantabria, the Great Sun to the brink of international agreements signed by the European Union, in international waters or through the formula of mixed societies, has been provided. In this respect, work formulas have therefore emerged that respond to this common work, such as the provision of a scientific-technical analysis of the real and direct implications of the European Union's regulations, with particular emphasis on technical measures and the obligation to land, follow-up and control. This is the line with which working groups were born within the Galician Fisheries Council and we see that it is an accepted and valid formula, so we should extend it to other solutions demand programs. We must continue to improve the greatest value-added achievement for Welsh fishery products, with specific impact on their promotion and adequacy of supply and demand, so that fisheries management planning should go beyond mere extraction regulation to take more attention to marketing. In the same way, and as for what was a common theme, debate and proposals must also be focused on the attention and re-adaptation of training as an important point in the recovery of generational relief and in the formulation of professional careers in fishing work, for which we have a wide network of nautical-fishing schools and decentralised training that can help a great deal. Finally, and as a link point between the days and the work we have to develop in the future, the conclusion document has been turned to all participants, receiving back a total of six additions, all of which affect less than 5% of the text, which gives an image of the true identification of the conclusions obtained. In this sense, it is necessary to begin to shape in practical terms this theoretical school of ideas and worries, so soon it will be gathered already the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council to shape a first emergent proposal of the days. This has to do with the demand for a review of fisheries management through scientific-technical analysis of the feasibility of unit unification of functional units and catch zones and differentiation of stocks of fishing interest to our fleet, always with the ability to have better quotas and greater efficiency in their use. To this end, it was considered appropriate, in order to implement the previous amendments, to study on the part of the Galego Fisheries Council in its case of a regional entity, led by Spain, with the participation of Portugal and France, who can work on the proposal for multiannual plans for the jury and the garden of zone VIIIc and IXa in the last instance, also on demersal species of these areas. This proposal has already been formulated and will be analysed at this next plenary session, following the joint debate on the work done by the groups which have made the opinions on the proposals for deep-sea fisheries regulation and technical measures. This is therefore the first step, but we must also announce that proposals are being evaluated to meet the demands of the sector, so they will be proposed for collaboration with the Administration and scientists in the development of studies that give us arguments on issues such as quota use, the impact of main and secondary fisheries or the impact of the regulation on finishing. We have the clear opinion of the sector, we have its proposals and concerns and we also want to listen to them and always follow them for the sake of Galicia, for the sake of Galician fishing and also for the future of it. I ask them to add to that will, because only among all of us will go forward. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u41	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u42	Good morning, Counselor. I have to start by correcting him in his intervention who was part of those days. There was a forgetfulness: the representation of the workers and the workers of the sea. Trade unions weren't in a few days that affected them very much, and they're also part of the Fisheries Council. But they didn't have their opinions in those days. Fishing is a tough profession that counts, in addition, with a low social rating. Its marketing depends on intermediaries; grant policies have a perverse effect on it and good practices are not encouraged. The Greek fisheries sector rejects the continuing reductions in quotas and total allowable catches approved by Brussels each year, so it calls for the elimination or modification of the known principle of relative stability, the Treaty so that the European Union assigns to each Member State a fixed percentage of the TAC determined for each species. I must welcome the club of these nationalist radicals, among whom I find myself, who have denounced the common fisheries policy since the integration of the Spanish State into the European Union, saying that we were sold by the forces of the system, PP and PSOE, depending on other interests. Of those we have reported over the past thirty years that the implementation of the principle of relative stability was a fraud and was responding to the political capacity of some Member States in view of the failure of the Spanish State's interest in defending the primary sector and, in particular, the sea sector and the complex sea industry. The Spanish State, which joined the European community three years later, had to comply with 4% of the tonnes distributed among the countries, a fact that caused fishing quotas with which the Galician fleet counts to be much lower than its fishing capacity. The club from which we have denounced that it was a lie to the definition and principle of Community fisheries policy, which said: the fishing opportunities will be distributed among the Member States, so that the relative stability of the activities for each population or fisheries is guaranteed to each of them. A big lie, a big fraud. The same lie that you have kept all this time, refusing and not listening to the proposals that have been made to you over the years to fight, pursue and attack the principle of relative stability, not defending the interests of the marine population that you had voted for. The system known as relative stability has caused many ships to have to banner in other countries, such as England or France, since they do own quotas. As a result, Galicia loses boats and fishing capacity. Over the past four years, 129 ships operating only in the port of Vigo have been cleared. Faced with these positions, we were called anti-Europeans, which we had no idea, that we were defending the autarchy. Now they're giving us the reason. They rejected the positions they argued that you were obliged to defend the maritime industry complex by its economic significance: 11% of the German GDP and 19% of the employment; this being an intensive high component in the labour force and hence a great social impact. In front of the positions that were manifested against the dumping of ships, you didn't have a combative attitude, only by submission. The clearest example was the Irish box. Remember, Counselor, the fleet of 200, to the next year 168, and so on, to the current ruin situation. The corollary to the principle of relative stability of the common fisheries policy was TACs. Redeals keeping the initial bases, and therefore treating unequally, reduced TACs, reduced quotas for all, but making the activity unsustainable for those who had less. The scientific reports concerned were sacrificed and despised our fishing rights, just as they are now done with austerity. Austerity in the division of quotas, but more austerity for the weak, for those who cannot defend themselves. In the meantime, others advocate a progressive policy, which recovers stocks, just like the productive sectors that you have not heeded. Counselor, of the damage done, there's no one left us. Spices, fishing effort associations, ship archers, have only served to reduce our fleet, while recent news reports say we are unable to supply 60% of state fish consumption. Where will the rest come from? Why are we fish deficits and we have to import them when we can't fish for politics defended by the Government of the State and the Government of the United States these years? The insensitivity of the People's Party has been played. The snooping about the meshes and the bans on the drag didn't surprise us. Just as it can't surprise us that you, the thread of Arvi's presentation of a memorandum, or Strasbourg's claim against your position, come to present us with a position in the sector today. What was your position all these years? All together against the principle of relative stability? There are some questions left pending. Will you support those who have already filed demands? Will you ask the European Union and the Spanish authorities to withdraw the sanctions on the fishing grounds of the garden? Are you going to sue for more TAC of oral swearing that affects our fleets? Are you going to make the Fisheries Inspectorate coordinated and there are no four inspectors smashing and scribbling our fishing fleet? Are you planning to create the protocol on board related to the inspections? Have you done what you've been asked? If you've done it, you'll be able to tell. Just as you can tell us in this Parliament which measures are to achieve greater added value in the fishing and fishing sector. Live to see. Thirty years lost and now giving us the reason, go panorama! And you don't get so angry! But I also want to insist that you tell me what you're going to do to protect crews from mandatory stops, for species recovery or toxin detection. For example, we now have the dust seal, which will last for six weeks. I mean, they can't go fishing for the cephalopod until July 4th. The crew are therefore faced at 45 days when they will be dedicated to the equipment, and will sell the fish at the present price. Other unfortunate sailors face unemployment when deciding the boss doesn't change arts. Only insurance for a 3 crew ship is 600 euros a month. The sector calls for access to unemployment benefit during stops, or at least for exemption from social security payments. In this proposal to promote fish consumption, of which you also spoke, as part of a healthy and balanced diet, you did not talk about the possibility of establishing a reduced IVI application of 4%. Meanwhile, justice continues ahead. He has admitted the resource of dragging against the Cantabrian Plan. We don't know if you're going to support these complaints, if you're going to support the sector. The sector presented the resource because it has always been contrary to the fact that ships that are fired from public aid could sell the allocated quota, that in the 2015 amendment has already been resolved, but if they do not receive aid they can sell the quota part, which also entails discrimination, because it continues to benefit those who keep and continue to harm the weaker fleets, ships with less economic capacity. I'd like you to answer these questions. In the second intervention we will discuss other points of the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u44	Good day to all. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is, you've been working all over the past few months trying to clean up a dirty picture. And they have it dirty because their fisheries decisions have led to the fact that it was, for the first time in this country, the unity of the sea sector that two questions were asked for: a change in their fisheries policy, and their resignation. Just a few months ago, the Galician square was filled with people, sea workers, who asked for their resignation. And now you, after having to listen to how the collective of sea workers asked you to leave because you're attacking your livelihood and your future, it turns out you're telling us that you're doing a few days because your goal is to dialogue and listen to the sector. What is the concept of dialogue and listening to the sector? Dialogue and listening to the sector is being in a strategy of cleaning up your image, in a strategy of camouflage of the reality of your fishing policy, to become now, supposedly, the defenders of what you've been attacking since you reached the Government? How do you understand that you come here today to account for a number of days charting future paths, in which, according to you just expressed here, the only conclusions that are given are the obvious ones, the ones that we all share. Of course, we are all against the division of TACs, of course, and relative stability, of course! But what is the objective? What is the political activity that must be done by your government to change these things? You can't propose here today that your policy and the seven years of government that you have been in this country since the Bipartite lead to your goal, from now on, whatever happens to a few days, where, of course, as was said from this forum, an important part of the sector was missing: the unions were not present. Furthermore, the setting of the day itself was not discussed at the Galego Fisheries Council, and it was not the Galego Fishing Council who determined how these days were done. And how, for example, do you of these days suggest that they come to the conclusion that it's not possible to denounce the judicial nature of relative stability because it's going to be lost, when in your own days there's only one rapporteur who has the capacity for law; one of the rapporteurs of all the days. So, what you're doing, just like the popular party fishing spokesman in recent months, in this House and some country ports, is trying to clean up an image of a sector that knows it's being attacked by its policies. How could it be that you in those days didn't talk about any of the issues that severely affect our fishing? How is it possible that when we talk about the European Union, we are not talking about the adoption of the objectives of economic policy, of the blue economy of the European Union, of our sector? How is it possible not to tell the sector that from the European Union, with the support of its party in the European Union, if you are talking about the sea as an element of exploitation and fishing as a secondary element? We want to say that from the European Union we are promoting that the sea has to have other objectives, for example, energy use or mining, but not the fishing industry, which is becoming secondary in the policy of the blue economy which is fostered in the European Union, and which welcomes its party there, in the European Union. You come here and talk to us about what? The headlines are what they are. The Greek fishing has lost two out of every ten workers in the last decade. Not only that, 20 percent of redundancies for ten years. So we're in a dramatic situation, where our people don't even reach the end of the month and where our fishing companies can't maintain their activity precisely by inaction or by the wrong decisions of their advisor. How can you tell me that one of the conclusions is that the problem is bureaucracy about high seas fisheries, when you are bureaucratically drowning our coastal fishermen, when they complain about how there is brutal pressure, not only administrative and bureaucratic, but also taxes, about those nearby fisheries, those that are given in traditional fishing? And when it's said that it must be the sector itself that drives, what are we doing to implement the cogeneration of the sea sector in our country? What is the formula that you set for the sector to be heard, which is not what you provoked with these days? There's a very obvious press release, and in that press release it's not an alternative left-wing gaga, but it's a union who accuses your advisor that these days were meant to listen to those who say the same thing as you say, but not to any of the critical sector. I don't say it, it's in the press said by a majority union power station in this country. So, of course, we say that the conclusions are what they are, and you're not talking about those things our country needs. They're not talking about what you said in Telesalnes: that the aquaculture law was withdrawn, but we'll see. You are hoping to have another opportunity for government – which I hope this country will not give you – to get what they've been trying to get out for many years, which is another model for our coastline; a model of privatization, a model of exclusion from our sailors and our fishermen. So you defend individual transferable quotas, and we say that this cannot be agreed. That the individual transferable quotas are absolutely inappropriate, unfair and that bring capitalism into the sea; that is, the accumulation of resources in those who can pay them, not those who need them and those who can survive it. You said here today that bet on individual transferable quotas, just say it here! If you agree, you agree. We say that's a mistake and that, of course, means what it meant in other sectors. It means that those who have the ability to buy quota can do it, and those who have no capacity can't do it. It means, therefore, that what we are talking about is that, from now on, in this country, it can fish those with economic capacity, and the rest will have no capacity at all. What are you going to do about the real problems in this country? What are you going to do, for example, with the necessary sanitation of our rivers? You're talking about the situation in our sector, but you're not talking about the fact that there's a press conference today to denounce the precarious situation in Pontevedra. Or they're not on the table the problems that you caused in the Ferrol River, which has made those who are not responsible, but those who live with the consequences of their inaction, are the ones who pay, even criminally, for an activity that you do, which is to determine that there are even unqualified areas in the Ferrol River, and that it is very difficult to determine which is and where each of the products they sell is extracted, which is their responsibility and not those who are paying for their inadequate management. When they talk about improving the subject of marketing, in those days they could talk about the situation, for example, with the famous judgement of the Galician mexillon, of the PDOs. What are you going to do to prevent it from being sold in this country, as a Greek, non-Greek product. What you're going to do with the inclusion in our market of foreign products in a brutal way, without any kind of powerful activity on the part of your advisor. So, when we're talking about recovering, we're talking about recovering, how we're able to implement more jobs in our rivers, especially what it has to do with marquee, the recovery of unproductive spaces, with the set-up of processes that allow women and young people to incorporate into this process, and with sufficient economic capacities. You recognized here, not long ago, that the economic capacity of shellfish today, although it has improved over the previous year, remains in many cases below what a person perceives Risga, and in this country you cannot work on shellfish when your income is lower than you perceive by Risga. We believe that there must be a different fisheries policy, and where, of course, there can be no equal treatment of those things, but there must be a fair fishing policy. We believe that we must favour the traditional fisheries sector, that this sector has to be defended, before the European Union and before the state, so that traditional fishing is eliminated from TACs and quotas, or at least that its accidental fishing is eliminated from TACs and quotas. We believe that it should be envisaged, at the time of distribution, that those fisheries that give higher jobs per tonne downloaded should be those that are privileged, and not to say that quotas and TACs will increase without more, because quotas and TACs are increased when they are unfairly distributed, it means to continue to distribute unfairly, and we believe that the process must be that those who give more jobs per tonne, be privileged, therefore, we say: to privilege traditional fishing. We define what is traditional fishing. I'd like to know what your opinion and advice is about which you should be considered traditional fishing. From the Alternative Left Galeg we have it very clearly. There has to be an integral vision of what's happening on our coast, in our coastal space. Like other industrial or even agricultural impacts, they affect the environmental quality of our seas, which are not being contemplated by you. The need to implement more money, more money, more investment and more R & D budgets, to investigate the situation of red tides, to investigate the situation of parasites that affect our fisheries and molluscs. Those are issues that are absolutely necessary and that you are aware of in this reality. Of course, we also have to bear in mind that fishing is an integral process, and we also want to suggest that there should be immediate studies on how the situation of sport fishing affects all stocks of our rivers, of our wharves, and also of commercial activity; and how a mechanism of control of commercial activity, which is absolutely hidden, of sport fishing, and how this affects our traditional fishermen, must be implemented. And of course it's not, as of today, within the objectives of his counseling. So, finally, you came here to say the usual one. And the usual thing is that you don't have the clear project for our fishermen and our sailors; that you hide reality. And their reality is that they haven't forgotten the old model Lopez Veiga. And that model López Veiga means that our fishermen are left behind, that our sailors are left behind, that our ships are left behind, because you have another goal for our coast, which is nothing other than what we continue to denounce: the future privatization of our sector and the accumulation in few hands of what is a wealth that is public. So, as is public, you have to go to as many people as possible, and you had to define here what your goal is. So I hope that in the second part you come to say something. Because you come here to realize a few days without even bringing the conclusions to the whole group...! And not only that, but not even from the rostrum to say what the conclusions are, except that they are in favour of increasing quotas and against relative stability, which I think all of us here agree... you should say what fisheries policy will be to achieve that goal that is to improve the situation of our sea and that, of course, does not disappear by 20% of the employment of our sea, as it has disappeared since you govern. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u45	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u46	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. I have to say the title is suggestive. To talk about the future, regardless of the present, is all a chimera, when your obligation should be to speak about the present and to account for the project that he presented to the Greeks and to the Greeks, and which he executed during these last two legislates. It turns out not today that the sea councillor doesn't show up; something that's normal in this Parliament, come here. Come here, for example, to take stock of its management since the famous 2010 Marishing Meeting, which promised so much, by its special link with this collective, and to explain, since 2009, the loss of 355 Marshingers, the decrease of 47% of the Berbek, 23% of the thin plum, or other species, such as the flyer, 55%. It would be very edifying to appear when thousands of people manifest themselves massively asking for their resignation to draw up a preliminary draft of the back-to-back aquaculture law; trying to facilitate the arrival of new private investments outside the reality of our sector. Or when he camped in front of San Caetano for 90 days, denouncing the change of model distribution, which condemns a vast majority of the fleet to the layoff. Or when the shipowners tell him that they're sick of illegal activity and want to fish with dignity in our waters, and don't run away. Or when the judgment of a court makes it clear that labeling mexillon under the words "of the Galician rivers", "manufactured and drawn up in Galicia", it is illegal if you are not under the Galician Mexican DOP, and it constitutes a fraud to the consumer. And you, instead of coming here to talk about your responsibilities, set up a day to talk about the directions of the future or the need for the unity of the sector. You, seven years after you've been in front of the Council of the Sea, there are, of course, clear and magnificent examples of your behavior during the last seven years of the unity you profess in the sector. We saw it in the case of labelling, as you defended the same position as a part of ANFACO, to the detriment of the extractive sector and most of the conservation sector, which sees in the quality of identification the only way to survive. We saw him in the Greek siege, betting on the confrontation and division of the sector, so we went from having a single association to more than half a dozen associations. We saw him on the wheel, inviting meetings to cantabrian or asturian associations. And now that the legislation is over, it revives the discourse of necessity, argumentation and evil that comes to us from the entry into Europe with the application of the principle of relative stability; demonstrating its inability to use the political path and defend the interests of the Greeks. And he tries to fool us again by telling us that it's easier to change than to remove it, by hanging on discards and quota wastes. Defending what they have always defended, which is the privatization of the right to be able to fish, to then allow the exchange and transfer of quotas, which will end – which is ending – being the sale of the fishing rights that are being applied in the state, which benefits a part of the sector, but which ruines the artisanal fishing and which obliges fleets such as that of the siege, the steering wheel and the drag to have to pay, yes, to pay in order to be able to fish. You, who have never defended a fair distribution of fishing rights, according to what you are demanding from the sector and according to our own reality, which allows for greater maintenance of economic activity, and above all for maintaining employment. You, who never defended us in Europe, you who renounced our defense there, and who renounced even in the state itself, so that Madrid and other communities could easily impose their criteria and lead us to an individual division that concentrate on the great ships of the Cantabrian, or the right to be able to fish, in the case of the siege. But also here, where he has his own powers and he could develop initiatives to defend the fleet and his right to be able to fish, you've always been on the dark side, collaborating so that he would be subject to the quota. Yes, Counselor, artisanal fishing for the first time subjected to quota. We see it in the way or in the prohibition of being able to fish certain species, which for many vessels are purely accidental. Two lost legislatures where others, such as the Basque Country, have consolidated their hexemonic position in the yard, in the mouth, in the beautiful. Or others, like Andalusia, stayed with our bite of the mouth in the 9th, and even increased their quota in the jury. And Portugal imposed a management rule, where it reached 70% of the quota of the sardines. Not to mention the Faroe Islands, which have gone from being threatened with sanctions for fishing. Do you remember our 2009 and 2010 sanctions? Because they went from the threat to increase their share from 4.6% to 12.6%, which means nothing more and nothing less than four times the quota that corresponds to the Spanish State, and we speak of an island of 50,000 inhabitants. The triple helix of the days is understandable. As an example of his false bet, he also serves that he was unable to achieve even a single competition, and that they supported the BNG initiative, which called for the transfer of competences into oceanographic research and research centres, saying, by the way, his fishing spokesman that for his Government this was a priority and that he was already requested. At least it was a priority and it was already requested! In these two legislations, you gave up your own powers and allowed this obsession to recentralise Madrid's competences if it was carried out. Aata Brussels has legislated its own activities as the way, and you haven't said anything. It had to be the sector, by the hand of the BNG, which was in Brussels demanding this discrimination. And now he promises to chart a new course to amortize many of the Madrid and Brussels rules, which are inadequate and disproportionate, such as those in the shop, for example, or abusive fees, forgetting that you had the opportunity to confront and change and rejected many of our initiatives. It must be recognized that what is best given to them is to speak of those routes where they have no competences – or they do not want to have – in illegal fishing pronouncements, fisheries agreements, imports, tuna or canned fishing bans, etc. And to approve initiatives that, when the time comes for truth, to promote relevant diplomatic actions or management, the result is what we all know: the expulsion of Mauritania's headphone fleet, the loss of licenses in the surface range, or that the tuna fleet can renew at present seven units, 21,000 tons, nothing more and nothing less, while the Welsh fleet includes a plan of adjustment until 2020, where 569 ships are to be wasted. Or not to mention the affiliation of the sailors on the French flag, who come to quote in the French ENIM. But what they manage best is the routes that lead to customer policy, and they're already committing that there's 500 million euros to support all those friendly sectors. Interestingly, 18 million had already committed them to intensive aquaculture before the bill passed; "before," Counsellor. And with these days, they do a commitment exercise again, without realising the measures, the mechanisms and the management that make it possible to achieve some of these objectives. Commitments we have shown that they have the same value as the support they have given us to denounce at the moment the principle of relative stability, or to claim the competences of fishing research, so real, the truth, as the initiatives that Mr Balsairo brings here, speaking of the conservation plan, the waste mechanism or the drive of artisanal fishing. Not to mention the promises of the reduction coefficients for the Coast Guard service, when they have broken two legislatures and have done exactly the opposite of what they come here right now preaching. As you will understand, BNG, like the sector, we no longer believe in its promises or in its interlocution to draw new paths. Good time! At the right time, seven years later! So we recommend that instead of continuing to preach, go and do the petate. Well, you pass it to him like Pedrine in the tale of the wolf: so much lie, so much say that there comes wolf, that there comes the wolf, which now turns out that the sector is coming and sending her home. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u48	Good morning to all and to all. Counsellor, from this respect, I believe that you came here today to laugh at all of us, to laugh at the opposition groups and, more importantly, to laugh at all the Greeks and thousands of seamen in this country. And I'm saying this because nothing of what you've come to say here today gives you something about what we all know. In fact, the sector and its representatives know what their problems are, what it would be good to know what their initiatives are or what you did to answer them and solve these problems. Because, look, you come to this Parliament today overlooking and obvious that you have been responsible for the most responsible for the fishing in Greece for seven years and two months and overlooking that you have already managed seven budgets and more than one billion euros in the Council of the Sea. You are therefore the ultimate responsible for the situation in which the fishing sector and the sea-related industry find themselves today. Today you should come to account, Counselor, tell us about the balance that you and your government leave in the sector after two legislates in front of this country. That should be the title of his appearance, but, of course, logically, he does not; and he does not, because the data does not accompany her, Counselor. And, therefore, it's much more convenient to come here and talk about something called "Tracking Forwards for the Future." A few days ago you actually celebrated something more than 15 days ago, and what I think they did was show their complete abandonment of the sector in recent years and their lack of political initiative. Today you should tell us how it is possible that in seven years we lost nearly 4,500 contributors to the special regime of the social security sea in this country. Today, in the media, it comes with very illustrative information about this. He says over the last fifteen years more than 16,000 jobs have been lost in the special sea regime. Today you should tell us how it is possible that our fleet will always lose its role in third countries whenever a new fisheries agreement has been negotiated in the European Union. Today you could come here and tell us how it's possible that, being the fleet of the largest siege in the cantabrian cornea, the fleet that generates the greatest number of jobs, we are, however, the least fishing opportunities you have. And it's not something that I'm making up or I'm saying that the evidence is the one that says it. Last year for almost three months 90% of the fleet of the siege had to remain bound to the port. You could come here today and tell us how you're going to solve the problems our low-grade fleet has. I am convinced that you are aware that since the zero hours of today's day they can no longer land a single kilo of more garden, even if their capture is accidental. It's no use in that patch that you tried to put on with those 120 tons that the Basques brought so you could keep downloading those accidental catches for just a month. You could come and talk to us about it, but you could also talk to us about how it's possible that this country's flying ships in May have already finished their fishing quota and have to be buying fares from other ships of other communities in order to keep up their activity and continue to survive. We could talk about that, too. Indeed, when they camped in front of their offices in San Caetano they didn't take long to set up a dialogue table that they once met, and from there we know nothing more about the solutions that you will provide. And you might also come here to talk about what you've done so that hundreds of German workers, who work on French but capitalish ships, who have been forced to register in the French social security system, even though there's a European regulation that protects them so that they can continue to travel through the ISM, left; they couldn't do anything at all. Nearly 500 workers have also left the Spanish quote system and are in French without you being able to answer. You could talk to us about that and other sectors important for fishing, such as seafood, where over the last seven years you have lost about 500 jobs in the seafood on foot. And you, in the face of this difficult situation, are not even able to keep open the mini-creators of Camarinas and the Vice-President, who could be serving to supply seed to the damaged seafood banks in this country. Counsellor, do you really think today was the day to come to Parliament and talk about our future course? With the situation you have in the sector, do you think today was the day to come and talk about this? You had many themes for which you might appear, but you chose a comfortable subject, with which you did not bring us anything at all. In these four years, you have appeared no more than two or three times in this Parliament, and today you choose this subject, the subject of a few days, to come and talk to us. And I'm not saying you can't come and tell us what happened in those days, but it's just that, look, you took seven years and nothing but sitting down and gathering the sector to talk about your problems. That is to say, you are now going to demand a better deal from the European authorities for our fleet, seven years later – you said it in your intervention – we are setting the point of departure. The truth is, I think it's quite late, Counselor. The logical and normal thing would be that if we were faced with a serious and responsible government today you would be aware of the outcome of your policies and actions to reverse this situation. The normal thing is that I've come here to talk about what you've done in the last seven years to try to bring about relative stability and to say that actions have implemented so that our fleet can fish more and be more profitable. But he didn't say anything at all. So it doesn't seem reasonable that within four months of finishing this second legislate in front of the Galician fishing, come here to try to save your face, because that's what you're doing, Counsellor. I repeat to you again that it's late... – Laugh, I don't know where grace is. – A large majority of the sector, Counselor, it's clear that there's been a long time since you stopped being a valid interlocutor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's a political leader who has never been up to the circumstances because he never stood on the side of the sector. Look, when you had to decide criteria for distribution of fishing opportunities, you defended the model that clearly harms our fleet; in the siege, you argued that historians have 70%, with 90% of the discriminated fleet; and in the steering wheel, which is where we could have historians, which has a weight of 25%; different criteria that always prejudice our fleet. When we had to fight for an equal framework between the Welsh and Portuguese trawler fleet, you simply and publicly showed a manifest incapacity. Yes, they came here bragging that they could put in place a new agreement for the trawler to have had... –Yes, no laugh, that you came here to answer a question from Mr. Balsairo and to draw breast saying that in the new agreement there would be an equal framework. –But shortly afterwards Mr. Cañete, former Minister of Fisheries, told him that everything you came here to do wasn't worth anything at all. So, whenever we had to address some question of silence in the Welsh fishing, you've never been up to it. So I'm telling you, it's not worth spending much more time. You come to save your face today, to show the public opinion that you are working, but unfortunately for you and for your party, a vast majority of the Greek society and practically the whole of fishing knows that we are facing a failed government, a absentee government, which has not been concerned about the problems of the people or the productive sectors of this country. I, Counselor, will tell you again from the respect I think you can save the replica shift, I really tell you. And I'm telling you because the sector is clear that you and your party have done absolutely nothing for these seven years. So you don't have to make any more effort, you're going to go through history being the advisor to whom more than 30,000 people have asked you to resign to shouts in the square of the Hole. This is your legacy, Mrs. Quintana; a sad legacy, but it's the balance you can make. It is still the result of their desire and abandonment in front of Galician fisheries. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u49	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we, from the Popular Group, would like to begin by congratulating you – and not just you, but you and your team – on the organization and design of these days. It is true that you are criticising it today in Parliament's rostrum because you come to talk about the future. If I'd come to talk about the past, don't worry that you'd be saying that the past was past and that you'd have to talk about the future. It doesn't matter. It's worth a break as much as a peel. And far from what we have heard in Parliament's rostrum by opposition groups, they have proved to be a forum of great utility, of analysis and of dialogue, a forum of reflection and a forum of proposals, of course; proposals that, as is normal, must be carried out and carried out in the future, designed to improve the future of the Welsh fishing sector, and also, of course, of course, if we are improving the future of the Greek fishing system, we are improving the future of the professionals, we are improving the future of the mariners. But, besides, these fishing days and all these other meeting spaces directly with the sea professionals, all you've mentioned, are what's part of your daily schedule. But the opposition groups are not interested in your agenda; the opposition groups are interested in going up to Parliament's rostrum and saying that everything is wrong. And this conclusion confirms that the opposition gentlemen, the leaders of the People's Group and the Council should not talk to the same people on the sea; we should not probably talk to the same ports or the same people on the sea, because what confirms is that who is actually working for the fishing sector is the Government of Galicia and is the People's Group. And this doesn't say Balsairo, that's what they tell me around the ports. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What happens to you, what's the problem? That some ports can no longer go because they don't receive them... so that's the problem. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And he said that wise man must have will and must have courage to get up and talk. But it's also what is required... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u51	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u52	...to sit and listen in this case to the direct voice of sea professionals. When you can't listen here, you'll tell me what you can hear out of here, man! [[Murmurs.]] But if there's nothing but listening to you! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Reflecting on his activity, a listening filled with empathy, from the very least, in this case, to the interlocutor, and with willingness and willingness to meet the different diagnoses, and the willingness and willingness to apply the solutions always by the hands of the sector. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] He said it because – Mr. Fajardo doesn't shut up – how will Mr. Fajardo hear?, how will they hear him here or out of here when they don't even listen to him or his comrades in Vilagarcia? [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] How will they hear you neither here nor out here when they don't even listen to you and your comrades in Vilagarcia? [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Of course, yes, always in the hands of the sector, of course. How have you been for the last seven years, with all that is said here – because here many things have been said –...? And now there are groups that are concerned that at these tables trade unions were not represented, which, as you will understand, I suppose you and we have nothing against that trade unions are represented at those tables, but those groups may think that trade unions in the fisheries sector represent 70% or 80% of the fishing sector, when it doesn't reach 5% of the fishing sector, and in segments like the bass fleet, almost zero. It seems that's the most serious problem we have right now. And they say you've been responsible for the Greek fishing for the last seven years. Yes, and the majority group in this House wants you to remain responsible for fishing for the next seven years. [[Applause]] Here he spoke of everything and spoke of the representative of the Socialist Party that, from today's noon evening, one can't fish one kilogram more of a yard. What he didn't say was that those were the policies of the Socialist Party of 2009, of the year 2010, and that we're paying a penalty for uncontrolled overfishing at that time. What did you do enough, Counselor, and the Government of Madrid so that we could pay that penalty for more years! If not, it is not that we could not fish from today, that we could not fish for one kilo of garden only, with the inheritance left by the Socialist Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And here we have talked about relative stability... man, of course, yes! you are talking about relative stability, but when you go up to Parliament's forum with initiatives in that sense, do you know what you are doing? [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They vote against it; you vote against it. Then everyone agrees, but according to a pickillo, because when you have to make the deal, you vote against it. [[Murmurs.]] And he talked about the common fisheries policy. Do you remember, Counsellor, that in the common fisheries policy the saying that Galicia sent, that we worked in Galicia, that we were working together with the Council from this Parliament...? And here I could give some illustrious representative of the Socialist Party record of this, which was the fishing spokesman, Mrs Soneira, from which I must admit that he knows... if the Socialist Party had a defender like Mrs Soneira in the fisheries sector, because at least when Mrs Soneira was there, we reached some agreement. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Just like when Mr. White was in the Galician Nationalist Block; then we came to agreements; we disagreed but we reached agreements. [[Laughter]] Now it's impossible, it's impossible! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you will know Mrs. Soneira that we were working on, that we had practically a closed agreement, and then it wasn't Mrs. Soneira, but another person she was negotiating with – and I won't say who she was because she's no longer a representative in this House – said that we couldn't reach that agreement; and they didn't support it either the Socialist Party or the Galician Nationalist Block. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And today you are going up to Parliament's rostrum to set an example for us. [[Murmurs.]] They'll support her! They'll support her! Why didn't they support her then? And this is also about relative stability, which we discussed here a few days ago about the judicial part. They always tell us the same. On the political side, it's very difficult to agree. Why? Because there must be unanimity in all countries, and the countries that are well won't vote in favour. What about us? Of course we agree. What's the matter with you against transferable quotas? What's the problem? If a ship ends its quota, you can buy a quota. Are you against that? And they can buy quota from another country – it doesn't even have to be from our country – which have share. Are you against that? So being against that is as much as not knowing anything about what's going on in the ports and what's going on in this sector. But you're much smarter, because you're against that, a report that you made at the university, which you recommend, and a report that the Vigo Shipowners' Cooperative made available to the industry and the Council. And you, as fishing experts, contradict that report. But you must be the only one who contradicts you, because then, when you go out to the ports, shipowners and sailors say everything contrary to what you say in Parliament. That's the reality. A lot more things have been said here. You've been talking about work around here lately. No, look, I'm sorry, the work around this councillor, this councillor and the Popular Parliamentary Group and the Government of Galicia has been here for the past seven years. And you know why? Now we're going to talk about the past, Counselor; because they want us to talk about the past, we're going to talk about the past. During the years 2005 and 2009 fishing quotas, below. We got... well, of course, then they know he represented us, when we went to the council, an autonomous community that has many meters of sea. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] She's not the lady... Oh, yes, she's the ex-counsel lady. And they applauded here the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block. They represented us as Extreme to make fishing decisions when they ruled the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, the odds were down. And you, Counselor, must be congratulated, you and the Government of Madrid, you know why? Because they were able to change that trend. And in the last few years we've won the quota, we don't earn that we want to win, of course not, so this House's majority group brings initiatives to this Parliament, more than any opposition group, in the sense that we have to win the quota, of course yes, and that we want our sailors and our shipowners every day to live better, of course yes, that they are Greek like us and we want them to have a future. You don't hear it in Vilagarcia, and here we don't hear it either, we won't listen to it, as much as you try and want us to listen to it... [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u54	Of course I do. Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the sector, as much as I say these people, wants you, and this House's majority group... If you felt bad about the "gent" to your lordships, don't worry, it won't be that you'd feel very bad. [[Murmurs.]] It's just that I was saying it because Mr. Fajardo said it wasn't for lords to go with him; then he put them all in the same lot. But then, "these people" for some and "their lordships" for others. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u55	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Replica. Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, less bad than Mr. Val didn't want me to go out to the replica, Mr. President gives me the choice to have the replica! By clarifying some things, Mrs. Martínez, you started your exhibition saying that the unions weren't on the days. Look, I don't know if you know Mr. Ramiro Otero, representative of the Workers' Union, if you know Mr. Xavier Aboi, representative of the IGC, and if you know Mr. Luis Figueroa, representative of UXT. They were sharing days of work with us. I think sometimes when you read the headlines of the press and don't read the rest of the news, you might lose a bit. Who was at the tables are those people whom the various committees of the Galician Fisheries Council elected as their representatives, not those whom this councillor elects, who do not elect representatives; the elected representatives the sector itself, and therefore at the debates were the representatives elected by the various committees that make up the Galician Fisheries Council. And even more – as I said in my first intervention – were invited to all the major bosses and bosses, the first vixeros and vice-sponsors of the confrries, the entire plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council and more than 30 representative associations in the sector. So when one says that they were the members of the Galego Fisheries Council, if you know the decree to establish the Galego Fisheries Council, it is well known that the three trade union centres are represented and that all participated in these days as well. I'd also like to clarify some things, because you said, "Welcome to the club of those who are against." Sorry, we have always been against the so-called principle of relative stability, and here are the evidences that believe it: in 1996, in 1997, in 1998, in 1999, in 2000 and in 2001. In all those years, resources have been presented to the European Union to avoid the so-called principle of relative stability, and we have always lost those resources. We only earn it when we declare something against evil called the principle of relative stability. So when we arrived at the Government in 2009, the first thing we did was to talk to the director of the Salvador Institute of Studies in Madariaga, a professor of community law, to find the most appropriate formula to make use of our ability to improve fishing opportunities in the European Union. And from this work, which was deduced after the entry into force of the new common fisheries policy, which we are advised to do – and it is what has been discussed and discussed with the sector on these days – is that instead of fighting against the so-called principle of relative stability, what we need to take into account is that with the new reform of the common fisheries policy the European Union changes the rules of play, and therefore when changing the rules of play, we now have to ask that we be allowed to change access to fishing opportunities, because we have species of strangulation that would not allow us to enjoy all our fishing opportunities. And in that situation they are already beginning to find other countries like Holland or the United Kingdom. That's why we now say that it's time to look for that quota, that it may be lacking in other countries and that we too are missing, or quotas to which we could access and which we have no right today. So you're not welcome to the club; you're welcome to the club where you realize that we've been working for this a lot longer than you think. We've been working with Arvi too. [[Applause]] And this study that was presented and discussed in the papers was also funded and sponsored by the Council of the Sea. From the news that comes out of the trawl today, I'm just telling you to be careful about what you read in the media and what you need to know about the fishing industry. Look, more than 80% of the fishing opportunities we have today in the Great Sun have been achieved with that system. So, in this story, as in almost everything, when you talk about the Greek fishing sector, we have to understand and know that there are different sensibilities, and there are people who are in favor and there are people who are against. So we'll wait to see what justice decides and then we'll take those decisions. I'm just telling you that there are people who are in favour of that distribution and there are people who are against it. Mr. Rhodes, I think he must have escaped, because, of course, when he says the way today is subjected to quotas, because look, no, if exactly what... No, let's see, if we talk, we talk to a little bit of rigour. [[Mr. Rodas Chapel pronounces words that are not perceived.]] When you say it was thanks to the block that succeeded in modifying, I don't know what, well, I could even bring here the reports that were made from the Autonomous Community. It's very nice to go take a picture of the European Parliament, of course, when there are others who do the job; I don't question that. But, look, he did his job. What we're trying to do is to prevent the sardine from being subject to TACs and quotas, and that's why we have a plan, which is what we're working on with them. So, the way you have no quotas, we are with a regulation that has been approved within, precisely, the commission of the siege of the plenary of the Galician Fisheries Council. I don't know... because, of course, speaking to Mr. Val... look, I don't come here to laugh, it's never been my style, I've always taken all the problems and all the issues that the fishing industry has, and I'm here to move the conclusions of a few days that we've done with the fishing sector. [[Mr. Val Alonso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] If you want us to rock, I can ask for the appearance, come here and make a balance; whenever you want. I'm just going to give you some data so you can think about whether or not you want to have that balance debate. Because, look, you tell me I have to take care of the more than 6,000 jobs that have been lost at sea. Perhaps you have to explain why, of these 6,000, 4,324 were lost in the years 2005 to 2009, or why the permit to exploit shellfish in the years 2005 to 2009 was lost 843, and from 2010 to 2015 297. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Of course, when you have to balance, you also have a past. So, listen, talk about the ships with the flag of France... well, you're less bad than only four years in the Government, because in those four years, eight ships were bannered in France. In the seven years that we rule seven ships, one per year. Man, I think the differences between one government and the other are quite clear. But if you want us to keep talking about balance, we can talk too. Mr. Balsairo said it very well: while you were ruling here, in Madrid fishing was damaged. Man!, no, no... what is measurable is not opinable. I have said it a thousand times, from 2005 to 2012 44% of fishing opportunities have been lost. Yes or no? You're going to tell me you didn't? No, well, 44% was lost. But, look, I'm going to tell you that from the year 2009 to 2015, ruling us, the drag increased by 58%; the long-term, by 92%; in the north-west Cantabrian squid, the drag increased by 23%; the siege increased by 55%; in smaller arts, by 14%; and the species subject to TACs and quotas for smaller arts account for 12% of billing. I would like to see Mr Fajardo, as he is so clear, define what he means by traditional fishing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u57	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u58	The truth is, I tried to resist, but I can't resist starting by answering to you, Mr. Balsairo, because it's really too attractive your intervention to leave her without answering it. Look, you tell lies like castles, and it stays so wide. You said improving the sector would already bring you to improve the conditions of the sailors. You're lying! It's just that you're part of an absolute lie. They have nothing to do with the conditions of the sailors, the life of the sailors, how the sector goes directly; it can go very well and the sailors are enslaved, it has nothing to do with it. That's why you don't understand that about business profits and that companies do very well don't directly affect workers as they should. From there his huge failure. It's true, you're right: we don't talk to the same people in the sea or to the same business interests, they've demonstrated with the conservation. You talk to a part of the fleet that interests a certain policy and leaves the rest entirely. Then you should also correct your lack of democratic decency, or whatever you want to call it, when you talk about that unions represent only 5% of the sector. And the People's Party doesn't represent anything either if we hold to the song is the population of Galicia, how many people are affiliated with or vote for the People's Party. Or to begin with... yes, ma'am, yes, because you can have a percentage of voters' votes, but there are a lot of people who don't get excited either. [[Murmurs.]] So the same valuation is for the unions as for... [[Murmurs.]] If you want to get into dialogue, dialogue with you, but you were trying to talk to Mr. Balsairo, okay? Yes, to clarify, ask the President for the floor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He wants to clarify, give him the floor to clarify, because we are idiots, and have to clarify things to the honourable Member of the People's Party, right? who understands very well, above all, of social justice, of distribution of wealth, because they are doing it very well... well, Mr President, I'm going to leave, let her come here and make her intervention. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u59	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u60	A little education wasn't wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u61	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u62	But, in addition, that lack of rigour and that lack of respect for the representation of workers and workers are, of course, already known in the People's Party, and the working class no longer expects anything from you, no longer expects anything from you. But you also said that all the initiatives presented by the People's Party to improve the situation in the sea sector were rejected. And I say to them, you rejected all the opposition initiatives; you didn't even try to reach an agreement. You use your absolute majority as absolutist no matter what you think most of the sector or what you think of the opposition. I'm out of time and there's a lot left to say. But we're against transferable quotas, yes, because they only benefit the most powerful ships, because they don't redistribut the wealth between our fleet. And, therefore, they continue to abandon those ships which have less and which have more need to expand. Counsellor, at the beginning of relative stability, I say: welcome! You say: we filed an appeal until 2001, then we got tired and had vacations until 2009, because Mr. Aznar, who ruled, did nothing to improve the situation of the Greek fleet. You guys, always balloons out. I don't trust news from the press, of course, but I read news from the press and look at what's going on. I'm much less aware of the news coming from the board on your website. Instead of giving and delivering documentation to the opposition and society to value it, you draw press notes. And now we're here evaluating the conclusions that you've drawn from a few days where there are no written conclusions endorsed by all the participants. And, of course, I still believe what the unions say, that they didn't have a share in these days. And – it's over time – of course, all I have to say is that the Galician fleet has lost catches from 1986 to now, when it represented 3.65 percent of the total and today it represents 1%; our fleet is in disarray, because most of it is well half a year older than thirty years and therefore it's hard for them to compete with much more up-to-date fleets. I would read them – I don't have time and I don't want to abuse time – but I recommend that they read the text of the Law on the renewal and protection of the Spanish fishing fleet in 1961, because we are in the same situation as in 1961. Perhaps, it turns out they didn't do their homework at any time, because you've been ruling virtually all of Galicia's democracy. So there's the job left behind, they don't have to boast, they've abandoned the sector, they've abandoned -- as we said -- the designation of origin. We were talking the other day about the designation of origin of the products that go to the can...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u63	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u64	...of the mussel. You guys only support part of the industry, they're always on the side and never that part is the weakest part. Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, less lessons and more solidarity. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u66	Very good again. Very briefly. As I couldn't find any generic reference to the wise, as Mr. Balsairo does, and if he does make some reference to what he doesn't know if you are supposed to speak or not, I don't know if you have what happened to him when he started his campaign in the Socialist Party; at best they wouldn't listen to him either and that's why he ended up in the People's Party. Or it's just your desire to grow politically and give a little equal to the party where it ends, and who's in politics is simply adapting his curriculum, his affiliation to those personal needs. It could be your position, I don't know, eh! The truth is that the great philosophers of the sea like you have these things: ability to move from party to party without any problems. But I don't think that's the subject of consultation or what brings us here today. [[Murmurs.]] The second question is what it has to do with a lie...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u67	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u68	You can interview me whenever you want, Rosa, without any problems.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u69	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u70	Yes, of course, the tide will rise and go up with everything, especially with the People's Party. That's something we have to be clear about. The second question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u71	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u72	You don't have to have the game so fine, it might be a little bit more... The second question is the lack of concretion of the Counsellor when she talks about the unions. Look, the unions, whether they're affiliated or not, they're representative and, in addition, they're defending a part of the workers. And, as some of the workers defend, I'm going to read to you what just one of the unions says about their days. And the secretary general Ramiro Otero says he doesn't know if Quintana's proceeding is an attempt to dynamize the Galician Fisheries Council or just make sure he's only going to listen to friendly voices. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the mission sent by the union, dated April 28, Otero announces that the presence of that day was neither debated nor approved within the council itself. He also complains that they have not been offered the opportunity to participate in trade union organizations, which – as I say – are part of the council. So, when I say they didn't participate, it's not a matter that I invented, but that the stations say yes, that they can be invited, but they couldn't participate or could be part of the tables. That's what they say, I don't say; it's a reality that's above the table. Because, what's the objective of this day? Well, hiding the fishing council's inability to make a favourable policy for this country's set of fishermen, looking for an external enemy. Since you are unable to make fisheries policy enough for the majority of society in this country, what you do is you look for an external enemy and say that the problem is another, the problem comes from Europe, relative stability and quotas and so on. But here are also problems caused by you; problems caused by your mismanagement, the lack of political commitment and the inoperation of a government that paints nothing in the state or Europe, and which is unable to reach agreements that are beneficial to our whole sea sector. And you tell me if I'm against individual transferable quotas. Of course, I must be against political principles. Because the individual transferable quota means that the fishing opportunities are concentrated on small businesses, on a handful of businesses, on those with capacity, and that they are also excluded from the fishing opportunities through this mechanism, independent fishermen and those with little capacity. What do we mean by this? That this is a mechanism that is, let's go!, on the day-to-day basis of the capitalist core of its formation, which is the accumulation of fishing capitals. Fishing opportunities are public and have to do with social welfare, with most of the people, and you want only those who can afford it. And who can pay it? For only a handful of companies and not our traditional fishermen. I told him that if you hadn't come to balance your disastrous management, I should have done at least purpose of amending what you're going to do in the future. But I haven't heard a single concrete proposal yet about what you're going to do, about the issues that affect, and in a very important way, our sector: stream cleaning, the situation of how that subsidy policy is going to be changed to scrapping by a subsidy policy so that people can -- say -- have minimum income for their families when there is fleet paralysis, when there are decisions to recover the stock of certain fisheries. That's what we're talking about. But, of course, it's also true – and I said it – that you can't treat for equal segments that are unequal, and we believe that there has to be a fair distribution of possibilities. And you determine what your goal is. And he gave a fact that, without going in to evaluate whether it's true or not, because I think about the data you have given you of increasing fishing possibilities because there is some falsity – we can talk afterwards – you gave a data that is significant to those who defend you and to those who don't defend you: increase fishing possibilities of the trawl fleet, 58%, and increase fishing possibilities of the bass fleet, 14%. That's the reality, you defend one sector and we defend another sector. And we also believe that the other sector has much more capacity to provide employability in this country. And that's why when we say that the fishing opportunities and how fisheries should be managed in this country have to do with the number of jobs that each tonne downloaded in this country, we talk about these kinds of issues. Of course, he's also since his co-existence. And that's why we asked him what the target is and what the situation is. And I would ask you, for example, what you think of the claims that are made from the Coast of Death, to establish seals for trawling and coastal fishing, or to establish exclusions from the distance from our coast. These are issues that need to be discussed in this Parliament and that you should have a position. I ask you to give this position because it is you who came to appear, not me to give my vision of what the traditional fleet is. I make it clear, it's in our papers, it's in our electoral program. You tell me what your vision of traditional fishing is and what is the traditional fishing of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u73	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u74	Well, we've seen that argumentation capacity is quite scarce to mark the course of the future, because the past is tremendously demolition, but above the Counsellor comes here and manipulates subtly because, indeed, this was approved at the Galego Fisheries Council, but the days were mounted by his Counsellor to somehow wash his face of failure and of the reply about everything he had on the part of the sector itself. But it manipulates to the point that from all my intervention the only argument that you've raised here was the way, that the way it has no price. I don't know the 200 tons he's assigned, he's been sharing for months and for boats, I don't know what we call it. But the basic question of the days raises a number of questions that I would like to repeat again, like you're talking about betting on dialogue and listening to the sector. He had seven years of opportunity and look at where the surrounding sector is three years later, with continuous mobilizations and camps; or look at where the wheel dialogue tables are, which recently have just staged the major failure of those dialogue tables; or look at the reply of the Aquaculture Law Preview. That's the reality of your leadership capacity. But what's spectacular is that you come here and say it can't be that one fleet is about quota and the other is missing. Come on, but this is what's been reporting the sector all these years. And that's the question: but over these years, what criteria have you defended? If that's what you're proposing, for example, Add: a distribution based on socio-economic criteria that enables the viability of the fleet and allows the maintenance of jobs. And then there were initiatives. For example, there were initiatives by Asturias, there were initiatives by Acerga, denouncing the management plan of the Northwest Cantabrian. And where have you been? And, above all, this was used to set off his resignation to fight against the principle of relative stability. But it is also here that you are again manipulating, because, in fact, the Salvador Madariaga Institute of European Studies, which makes it very clear that this is a political problem; a political problem where the country's capacity, its government and its own state, should be scaled up, and which has its own state to put down this discriminatory model, and which, in addition to now in the application of discards, will be much more damaging. But it shows the same resignation as in 2004, when it was with the renewal of the PPC. You too had committed to battle and modify and make a new PPC much more rational, much more fair, and you did absolutely nothing. But just as he didn't do anything when Acerga gave him the opportunity to support the initiative she took. And in the end, the conclusion is that he has been in charge of studies since 2009 and a little more. But then he comes here, he's face to face with talking about industry unity, but his dogma is: there's always people in favor and there's always people against him, that the sector agrees, and you end up taking a position that always benefits those shipowners who have the most financial possibilities or that sector that has the most economic interests. We'll see it in the mussel or we'll see it in any of the fleets. So you just do the opposite of what now in these days says you come to publish. But then what's already spectacular is that he comes to sell us a mile that he's going to bet on the generational relief, when you're responsible, with the change of application of the distribution model transformed into individual, that all those young people who during the period of the crisis have joined the fishing and bought boats, you just ruined them. And now you come here and tell us what's really going to contribute to this. But, come on, I think it's late and this is just a scene for that big answer that exists on the part of the sector, which already considers it to you as not the valid interlocutor, which is late. So for there to be a future and for there to be a new course it is essential to change the model. A model that we have seen since BNG defending as a much fairer model that is the one that takes into account because the viability of all operating units, but above all that takes into account the maintenance of all jobs. And you, of course, are no longer the interlocutor. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u75	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u76	Thank you again, President. I, in fact, am still telling you, Counselor, that it was a pity that you did not give up on the replica shift, because nothing new helped us, beyond arguing if who was at those tables were the unions or not, and arguing whether you came to rock or not. And what I ask of you is a bit of rigour. I know Mr. Balsairo is hard to ask, but I ask you for some rigour. Because to come here to say that, in fact, they exponentially increased quotas without talking about the situation of the fisheries in 2005, that you were aware that there were plans to recover the fish, the cock, the rap, the mouth, etc., and that logically after being subjected to a recovery plan increases the quotas, because the truth is that it is using demagoxy from the rostrum of Parliament. That's the reality, Counselor, and you know it perfectly. You can't come here to talk about the increase in quotas, but it's obvious how the fisheries were in 2005. And really, you ask for rigour to also address and deal with the problems that the sector has. Because, look, I am no longer going to argue that fishing opportunities have been increased, but there is a very important problem in setting the criteria for the allocation of those fishing opportunities. And as long as you are unable to recognize and deal with that situation, we will see ourselves in cases like those we all know: the siege of a very serious problem, very serious of lack of fishing possibilities, the steering wheel exactly the same and the fleet of casualties committed to species subject to TAC, which are often accidental captures and will not be able to unload. This is the reality, Counselor. And what's sad is that you come here today, after seven years, after seven budgets, of 1 billion euros managed by you, by you and the Government of the People's Party, and you are unable to account for those problems that are affecting our fleet. Because people don't manifest themselves because they want to, because people don't go out to protest against you and your government because they're having a good time; no, they do because they're in a harsh situation, Counselor. And you have your nose today to come here today to talk to us about future paths without even knowing where we are starting. I think people know exactly where we are. I told you before: IGE – see the page – from the year 2009 until today, 4,500 jobs less in the special sea regime; data from the IGE, Counsellor. And today comes a very significant information about this in a media that talks about that loss of number of employees at sea. So I first described about half a dozen situations and problems that affect our productive sector; issues that you have overlooked and you have not even been able to answer. I could name you so many others in this second intervention: We could talk about microbiological pollution that affects our water and the problems it is causing to users. I'm not going to talk to you here about what happened to four members of the Barallobre confrere a few weeks ago, who are going through a drink that I don't recommend to anyone, and just by leaving their Government's functions, Counsellor. That is how I described it last week in the Committee on Fisheries. It can't be that there are border areas that are... yes, that's so, Counselor, what's to be more responsible and not come here to blame others and say that they're getting things that they can't get out when reality and who determine where they can extract are you. Or we could talk about your positioning about the mexillion sector and your bet on the DOP. You in your first intervention spoke of unity. Just what you haven't done during these seven years, because you've dedicated yourself to dividing the fence sector, you've been able to encourage the creation of a new partnership to confront Acerga. In the mexillion sector exactly the same, Counsellor: you encourage the sector to be the sector that is facing it, instead of being the one who feels the sector on a table and speaking to enhance a PDO, which is undoubtedly a fundamental tool for the development and enhancement of the product. That's what you'd have to talk to us and realize what you're doing. We all know and the representatives of the sector know what their problems are, and they know that they are in relative stability and lack of possibility of sin. What you haven't seen here tells us is what they've done for the last seven years. Starting point: seven years after the beginning of your government. Look, I think you've had enough time to try to answer each and every one of these situations. So I don't think any more effort is needed to come here to the Galician Parliament trying to save your face. You already have what you want: tomorrow you'll be in the press saying that you've actually met with the sector and you're going to trace the course of the future. But, in fact, the problems that are pressing up the Welsh fisheries sector, mainly the downswing, the fence, the mexillon and the shellfish sector, are there and they are known to each and every one of the representatives. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u77	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't ask Mr. Val for rigor either; I say political rigor, eh! personally, as you will understand, I have nothing to say about you. The political rigor of you defined it very well in your home village of Foz or in your territory of the Navy, here they define it perfectly, which I will not ask you to do either from the gallery of Parliament. If I have anything to say to Mrs. Martínez. To say that the profits in the sea of a company don't influence anything in a mariner is just like saying: you don't know anything about that sector at all. Because I don't know if you know that a large majority of the fishing industry is still apart; if you don't want to call it aside, you call it opinion, and depending on what they earn so they pay. And if we still lower the expenses, as is the case, by setting an example, in 2009 how the gas oil was and how it was now, because of course there are more profits for the mariners. To say that – you will understand – is just like saying nothing. Counsellor, you were told that you were privatizing the sea. Look at how you privatize the sea, look at what a media says here, says, "Marishers plan to exploit three old private parks, which become public after they regenerate them." That's how the current Government of Galicia, in Burgo's laugh, in the Coruña... exactly, I knew you hadn't read this because if you were informed I hadn't said what he said. [[Murmurs.]] That's why, Counsellor, this is how this government privatizes the sea. [[Applause]] And what will those who vote in Parliament on 13-6-2012 against the Galician unitary ruling on the new common fisheries policy say, what will those who vote against Parliament on the abolition of the principle of relative stability and the change in the model of TACs and quotas? As they claim today, 28-3-2012 was voted against. What will those who vote on 13-2-2013 on the modernization of minimum crew regulations?, what will those who vote on the 27-3-2013 on the flexibility of discards?, what will those who vote against the 11-2-2014 to promote fishery products abroad?, what will those who vote against the 17-9-2014 on the axillization of medical recognition for mariners?, what will those who vote against the 20-4-2016 on the Strategic Plan of Conservation say that 29-3-2006 does not support the variable assessment of the social figure of bass fishing? And what will those who vote against 10-5-2006 say about the distribution of surplus quotas? That is the opposition we have, which outside Parliament says one thing and in Parliament says another. As you will understand, with this letter of presentation, you will reach any fishing port, any fishing organization, and present this letter of presentation and say this: this is the opposition we have in Galicia and this is the opposition we have in the Galician Parliament, and this is the position we have in the fishing sector; not because the People's Party says so, nor because the Council says so, but because it is collected in the Sessions Journal of this house. That's the opposition, that's the letter of presentation of any party; for the People's Party, this is the opposition, the best there was. That's why, Mrs. Soneira, I hope, if you're in the next legislation, your group will make a great decision, which is to put it back to you fishing spokesperson, because it will be the only way, Mrs. Soneira, of reaching some agreement. [[Applause]] I can't tell Mr. Rhodes the same way, because Mr. Rodas told him, Counselor, that you had been preparing the petate. But seen, Mr. Rhodes, as your group is, petate doesn't know what we have to prepare or not prepare, but you, without a doubt, are a candidate to prepare it. Go prepare him well! And, moreover, they spoke to him, Counselor, at all; they spoke to him in this case too. Well, what do they tell us about the wreckage, that the time that the most layoffs there was during the years 2005-2009, because you've fired 538 ships? Do you know how many fired the People's Party in the period 2009-2013? About 248, 54% less than you fired...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u79	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u80	...and then you applauded. But the problem – and it's over, Mr President – was not what they said, the problem is that you've already got us the Greeks from where they pulled us out and what they were planning to fire. And what you were planning to fire was nothing more and nothing less for the years that followed, 93% more than the People's Party's Government has been fired. And you know perfectly well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u82	...that we had to reduce the fleet, because when we entered where we entered, we entered with conditions half of what we had to have entered, in this case when we entered the European Union, because we had a fishing potential of 8% and we had a fleet representing 14%. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u83	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Close the show, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that I'm already used to, when you get out of Parliament and talk to the sector, see that some representatives of the opposition tell each other what you want to hear. What seems much harder to me is that this happens here in Parliament too. Inheres certain things, that I divide the sector, that I'm tired of dividing and dividing instead of joining, and who's trying to divide the sector, so it transmits here in this House, it's exactly each of the representatives of the sector that comes out to talk. Since when can I be accused of defending more than one part of the sector? For me it's as much drag as longrange, as for smaller arts, as for shellfish, as for aquaculture, as for industry, because they're all part of the mar-industry chain. And that they're all together has always been good for Galicia, and it'll still be good in the future for Galicia that they're all together. What's not to tell is that you're creating between each other's conflicts, and that's what the sector has made clear to you in those conclusions that you seem to have not paid much attention today. And I will give you the written conclusions, which are endorsed by the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, as I told you in my first intervention, with only six additions to the conclusions that we have made. When one tells you to do these days because people went out on the street asking for my resignation, you know me very little, or you're trying to hide the time I've been working at the Fisheries Council, not only since I'm a counselor, but at the other responsible positions I've had. But from the year 2009 until now, I can tell you so roughly, that more than ten days have been done in my council, and just after the demonstration one, that is, the others have done before there had been any demonstration. The consensus, I've always looked for it, and proof of that consensus is the Decree of Arts and Fishing Devices, 58 meetings. The Fisheries Act, with a unanimous ruling from the plenary session of the Galician Fisheries Council, is proving this consensus. And proof of this is the unanimous criterion with a dictatorship of Galician posture, of its fisheries administration, because it could not be obtained from Parliament, but from its fisheries administration, and from all the representatives of the sector, of all, from industry to traders, to seafooders, to all the different plants of the fleet. Tell me, unanimously to say, Galicia wants this for the future of its fishing. And in the face of these consensus, what do we have, who criticizes me here who has been able to approve an aquaculture plan with more than a thousand allegations? Is that consensus? How can you criticize each other because you and others can't? How can it be said that I am against the designation of origin of the mussel when we started working on the designation of origin of the mussel in 1998? How can it be said that I defend the position of industry when I didn't have a single meeting with industry and I had many with the vast majority of drummers who don't feel well represented within the Council of the Mexican Source Name? And what am I trying to do? Let all the parts be understood. It cannot be possible for Galicia to defend before the European Union the need to count on a designation of origin to protect our mussel, and now that 90% of the mussel produced in Galicia remains out of that protection. Something happens to us and we'll have to do something. And since the administration, we're doing what we have to do, looking for all the parts to be understood, because the only thing I'm not willing to agree with is that the possibility that every mussel born in Galicia, which grew up in Galicia, which is cultivated in Galicia and sold in Galicia, is that the name of Galicia is lost. I won't allow that. [[Applause]] We wanted a new fairer common fisheries policy, and we got it. From Galicia we were all together, the sector and its fisheries administration, to make it more flexible the principles that the former Commissioner, Mrs Damanaki, had set out to acquire the most sustainable yield in 2015, and we put the possibility of this flexibility up to 2020 if possible. We have achieved that, for the first time since we were part of the European Union, in the common fisheries policy, in the regulations that develop it is talking about equal conditions of the social and economic criteria. And what's wrong with me, Mr. Val, is that we're talking about the wheels and the fence with the distribution criteria. And I don't want to be told that we're not worth the distribution criteria, because Andalusia in zone IX took 90% of the mouthpiece. The same applies to Andalusians, which with those criteria of distribution Galicia has led to 98.7% of the fishing opportunities for the Jury, with the same criteria. What we can't, Mr. Wheels, what we can't, Mr. Val, what we can't, Mr. Fajardo, is to maintain a position and its opposite, because that means that at some point someone you said no to, you're going to have it in front of. And what I need to have is the criteria that favor the greatest amount of our fleet. It's not good for me to say that the sector is going well doesn't mean that the sailors are doing well, because that phrase means that we don't know the Welsh fishing sector. That phrase means you don't know that out of the 4,800 ships that have base harbor in Galicia, more than 3,900 are a fleet of bass. And if the bass fleet goes well, the fishing goes well. And if the fishing goes well, the sailors go well, because they're an essential part of our fleet. [[Applause]] I don't come to boast about the days I've done, no; I come to defend the work we're doing, and I'll follow that line. I'll never fool anyone. And I will never confront the drag with the bass, because the drag is a fundamental part of our fishing fleet and the bass is a fundamental part of our fishing fleet. And for Mr. Fajardo, who seems to me to have miscalculated the data, read them again. Comparative from 2009 to 2015: Gran Sol drag, 58% increase; Gran Sol bottom length, 92% increase; Cantabrian North-West quail fleet, 23% increase, 55% circle, less arts 14%. You know that for lesser arts only 12% of your billing is subject to TAC and quotas of European Union species. And, Mr. Fajardo, be very careful with the definitions he gives, such as traditional fishing, because traditional fishing is also the drag, which has been working for more than a hundred years. That's one thing: to confuse traditional fishing with fishing for smaller arts. Let's get together and define things well, but, of course, in me they'll only find one person who wants to defend all the links of the sea-industry chain. Nothing else and thank you very much. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u85	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until sixteen and thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u86	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session. Like Mr Social Policy Adviser, on his own request, to report on the new Social Agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u87	The Social Policy Adviser has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very early. I compare, on my own request, to outline the general lines of the new Social Agenda of Galicia. It's about giving new impetus to policies directed at people and families with less resources, and doing so, in addition to dialogue, consensus and willingness to collaborate with the rest of the administrations and social agents. The fight against poverty and support for the most vulnerable people must build one of the main axis of action of any responsible administration. Since Galician Union, along with the involvement of society as a whole, we have an obligation to promote actions aimed at combating exclusion. And in this line we have advanced since the creation of the Social Policy Council; firstly – as has already been said here – by providing social inclusion of one's own general direction; secondly, by increasing the resources of that general direction by 25% for this 2016 year; and thirdly – and not least importantly – by intensifying dialogue and collaboration with the municipalities and social agents to whom we should devote the most resources to making a better social policy among all, especially when we talk about the most needy. Now we want to take another step with the presentation and subsequent approval of the new Social Agenda, which seeks to respond to the new social needs and realities that exist. Social realities that change over time, which include new forms of collaboration, which include things that society tells us we have to take care of. Secondly, it is an agenda based on the principles of cooperation and coordination between administrations. It is the result of the joint work of the Galician Union and the municipalities, the individual municipalities and the municipalities associated with the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. It's about coordinating efforts to build a support network that will enable us to combat the social exclusion of many groups, especially the most vulnerable. I think it's a pending subject to define the frameworks for collaboration between administrations so that we don't repeat actions and are able to coordinate them a little more among all. Even so, the agenda reflects everyone's commitment to fulfilling the legislation we have given ourselves in social matters. The agenda must be an instrument to bring about the measures provided for in Law 13/2008, of 3 December, of social services in Galicia. In the Italian legislation, based on our self-government capabilities, we share the Autonomous Community of Galicia and local corporations with responsibility for social services. That must be our course of action, sharing competences and therefore better coordinating ourselves in the exercise of these competences and in the exercise of the different actions that we have developed. And another fundamental leg of this agenda, because of its very intense participation in it, was the participation of the Galaga Network against Poverty and Social Exclusion (EAPN Galicia), an organization from which more than a hundred entities work to defend the rights of people at risk of social exclusion and at risk of poverty. This platform has been working in Galicia, Spain and at European level for years with the aim of expanding the knowledge of public administrations, media and social agents about the phenomenon of poverty and social exclusion. In this agenda we follow the indications of this network as to how to deal with the fight against exclusion from what are called "the three ces" – it is a term coined by the network – the "c" of the causes that cause it, the "c" of the commitments of all sectors involved and the "c" of coordination. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main protection measures in our community to combat situations of poverty and social exclusion is the Galician Social Inclusion Income, Risga, at the moment the only income in Galicia to fight poverty situations. As you know, Risga needs to be in a situation of unemployment, and it also requires income from the unit of coexistence under amounts ranging between EUR 5,600 per year, in the case of a family unit made up of two persons, and EUR 8,600 per year, for family units composed of more than six members. But there are cases in which, even if they don't meet the requirements to perceive the risk, they have needs to respond to. They are those who, having a job, are lacking in their vital situation and are therefore vulnerable in terms of inequality, poverty and exclusion. In this context, the need to activate measures to address these families who are economically active and low-income and who, for various reasons, do not have access to inclusion aid devices. And who are these families? As it's collected in the Social Inclusion Strategy, we're talking about families under 16 years of age in charge and working income below those established in the Risk. It is precisely these families who are targeted primarily by the battery of measures that appear on the new Social Agenda in Galicia. In particular, we have recorded a total of 36,062 families, 36,062 households that appear in this situation, of which I find it very significant to point out that 8,269 are single-parent homes. So what are we going to develop together with the rest of the administrations? First of all, income support measures. I have already commented on the risk case, the commitment of the Government of Galicia to continue to deal with risk without delay, as we are currently fulfilling, with the economic provision necessary to deal with all those who believe their right to have it within two months, which is the regulated provision. We have a 30-day deadline right now; therefore, we are granting them within that deadline in a quite reasonable way. I also want to give them the 2014 balance sheet: 47 million euros in Galicia's social integration income; 47 million euros in the budgets of the Union, therefore, of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, which made it possible to have a total of 13,958 beneficiaries in Galicia. I'm going to give you another meaningful data, for cities, of investment through Risga and, therefore, of the number of families in each of the cities that have this income. The first city is Vigo, with 2,787 beneficiaries and an investment of 10,9 million euros; the second city, La Coruña, with 1,416 beneficiaries and 5,8 million euros; followed by Ourense, with 918 and 3,4 million euros of investment; Lugo, 843 and 3.1 million euros; Ferrol, 469 and 1,9 million euros; and Pontevedra, 273 families and 1,053,000 euros; and the rest of places to reach these 47 million euros. We also have the social inclusion aid and there are the municipal social emergency aid that we regulate in this new agenda so that they can be more flexible in cases where the risk is not directly reached by issues of administrative processing or by not being adapted to some of the existing requirements right now. We have a second block of measures that are measures to address energy poverty. They know perfectly well the measure of the electric ticket and the program to avoid the supply cuts of the Economics, Employment and Industry Council. The Union grants aid from EUR 180 to EUR 300 for the payment of electricity billing costs to families with minors or dependants with less than 1.5 of IPREM. And it was also launched in 2016 a new measure directed at families whose total revenues do not exceed the IPREM, which consists of the payment, at the request of the person concerned, of up to two monthly electricity per year amounting to EUR 200 to avoid precisely the supply cuts. In the agenda we propose, in addition, municipal additions to these two existing aids, finding that many municipalities from their budgets are, through emergency aid, helping in this measure. We are also aware of the burden of work that measures of this kind have for basic social services, so I will then comment on the measures we have planned to alleviate this work, both in terms of income, risk processing, and in terms of combating energy poverty in the Galician families. Thirdly, there is the block of measures, which they also know, of attention to the residential inclusion which has put in place the Infrastructure and Living Council, with some new features, such as the provision for vacant housing councils, the extension of the Programme Reconduces by extending the beneficiaries to those who are not only the result of mortgage debts but also those who are the result of rental debts, which is the phenomenon that is repointing at the moment and taking into account that it is lowering the amount of mortgage debts, as well as the possibility by the municipalities to supplement this type of assistance in residential matters and to articulate an urgent care service which is responsible for coordinating the social services system with other systems to address, in the first instance, unforeseen protection situations in a complementary time to the functioning of basic community social services and emergency housing. It is complemented by other measures, programs and social inclusion projects, the increase already announced and already agreed with Fegamp for all Galician municipalities of the home help service, a real network that we have raised in a remarkable way to avoid waiting lists of this service in the municipalities. We have already authorized a million more hours of attention to the Greeks and to the Greeks by the Council of the United States. I mean, these increases are already in the power of the municipalities so they start applying them from June 1 of this same year. We have already signed agreements with the seven main cities of Galicia in the actions to address child poverty. And there is support for the recruitment of specialized staff for municipal social services and the strengthening of these services, and measures directed also to social initiative and collaboration with other agents. So, new programs: intervention programs with children and their families; aid programs for the payment of drugs to those families who, not in Risga's situation, are in the audience of this agenda; and some programs that we've talked about with the municipalities and that we're going to make effective this year. The first is the Family Education and Support Programme. This is a new line of economic input that will allow the recruitment of 28 professionals in family education, which is the most important shortage that at present have basic social services, family work and child labour. Then, in the usual part of the social services, we would have two complementary measures: the first, the reinforcement of the professional teams of the concerted plan by financing 38 new social workers' squares and also financing 15 new senior graduates' squares. In this way, Junta would directly fund 500 social workers against the current 462, and 43 seniors against the current 28, in addition to transferring the budget increase of the Social Policy Council to the municipalities. [[Applause]] As you know, the Social Policy Council had a budget increase of 12% and we increased the funding of the workers' concerted plan, which had already assumed the Council, of the municipalities – exactly at 12% – to transfer to the municipalities the recovery of government accounts from Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] Another third leg, also very important, in basic social services staff is the Galaga Network of Temperá Care. With the new grant line for local entities we will be able to hire 36 new professionals to move from 6 early care units to 18 early care units in Galicia. We think it's totally a priority to work more intensively in children from 0 to 6 years old, because their rapid treatment can prevent many future problems. Also a new line of help for the municipalities is investment in emergency centers and social inclusion. For the first time, in the coming weeks, the Council will approve that order which will fund that action. All these actions have an economic contribution from the Galician Union of 162 million euros; the programmes planned with municipalities and social entities related to social inclusion, more than 30 million euros with regard to what was currently in existence. It's ultimately about coordinating efforts, aware that, while there's a person suffering from an exclusion situation, we won't be able to speak of a society in real and effective equality. The implication of all is fundamental. We believe that it is necessary to add the efforts of the Council, the Councils, social entities, social agents and Members, to which we will also leave the door open for them to participate in the design and development of this new Social Agenda in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u89	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. I just heard it and it's noticed that we have the elections around the corner. We're listening to beautiful phrases that look more like advertising slogans to attract a little attention, as if they were labels or luminous from the shops to see them away, to see the window, but that they don't let us see the contents. You will surely know that your counsellor works with very sensitive material. And now Junta wants to make a great career because she hasn't dealt properly with all the people and collectives who are within the areas that include her counseling. Galicia is a land that is desolated by the economic crisis, by aging, by the fleeing of young people seeking work, by not offering quality to other generations who are born, and where we leave the more than half a country in the process of maturing to the desert. So, we're talking about great performances, when we're going to approach the target line, because we have to look at each other, when we're still denying the rights. There are social pillars that must not be touched and that must be preserved, especially in times of crisis, but that seems to be irrelevant. The only demonstrable thing is that every day the social difference of classes becomes more acute. Yes, now I've heard many times repeat the words "collaboration" and "cooperation." Obviously, we have to work together, and together, with all the councils, to be able to solve the big structural problems, because otherwise, it's not going to be anything. Now if we're going to throw the house out of the window, with an increase of budget. When you arrived at the Council, you promised that you would increase 12% with respect to the previous exercise, which is going to boost the demographic theme, that great problem, the actions for youth, the third age and social and territorial cohesion. And we see that the rate of risk and poverty or social exclusion in 2014 is around 23.8%, which would be more than 600,000 people. And on the other hand, Galicia has 3.5% of its population in severe poverty, which is now almost 100,000 people. All this data was given – as you mentioned – by the Galician Network against Poverty. But you only offer charity, don't you? We must seek social inclusion. And we no longer count those people who are homeless. And in view of this picture, if it is too annoying and shocking to know that there are laws that are not complied with or that the others lack a decree to develop them properly, whether Law 10/2013, of social inclusion, which has been, above all, regarding the improvements to Risk, or we are now amending Galicia's Social Services Act. And yes, we're going to speed up the performances towards the electorate, to work – as I said before – on this final line. We must address the situations of poverty and social exclusion, and they now work together with other administrations. It was time, it was time! And yes, we have a big problem, an emergency to revitalize our demographics. It seems that they give us timely solutions, that if good-conciliation, that if you check-baby, that is a very electoralist measure. This appears and disappears like Guadiana. A lot of bureaucracy to tire people out too. We must find measures that are a nexus of union to improve people's quality of life, to offer life in Galicia. And now they're going to increase our day care facilities too. And if we check the gap that starts to provoke the economic crisis: the loss of work, the loss of purchasing capacity, the rejections... and we always talk about the bigger ones, but we never talk about the kids and the kids. Now it looks like we have to remind him constantly. We don't talk about those kids who have a disability problem anymore. We must offer them a worthy future. They are often relegated to their homes, or even out of their homes, for lack of resources, and should live a life like children they are. We're seeing that in Galicia inequality has increased more than the state average. The state as a whole has been on the European average in recent months. And then, on the other hand, until this moment much of the social weight in aid remained for collectives, platforms, even NGOs, freeing from the duty of what the administration itself is. And we're also talking about the children's deprotection files that are opened in Galicia. There are currently about 40,000. Two thousand minors are currently under the protection of the Union – which many could avoid –, 2,200 in reception centres and 1,000 others are in a shelter situation. If it is to be said that the Union has cut 17% in the budget for juvenile re-education centres in Coruña, or 19% in those open-ended educational intervention centres, which makes it impossible to manage by non-profit entities. It must also be said that this is not a country for youth. For various causes of emigrants, and this wastes the Greek society along with the fact of low birth, which together with emigration are one of the great problems that this land has, with the alarming aging of the population. If I would like to know what measures you will take to avoid the great territorial imbalance, given that 70% of the population of Galicia lives in 56 specific municipalities. Rural Galicia is dying from the reduction and elimination of social services, where we are now in a hurry to take action. But besides creating kindergartens, what services do all these people offer, what services do they offer? And, well, of course, this is not solved by auto policies. On the other hand, they offer us an investment of more than 300 million dependents, and it's incredible that the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for People in a Dependency Situation, who was nine years old, has been dying by inannition as soon as they set in motion. First of all, the economic crisis, the drastic budget cuts, cuts, the deployment of the cooperium, the low efficiency in the assessment of the degree of dependence and the execution of it... it seems that they don't hurt dependent people -- better now if they hurt a little bit about the gallery -- people with disabilities and older people mainly. We have a big problem: 20% of the population is over 65 years old, which is more than half a million inhabitants; and 8.7% is over 75 years old. You know that Galicia occupies one of the last positions of the Spanish State in services and squares to care for those older people. We're talking about a half-ish of 88.60 euros in front of the state average of 104.49. Also, according to the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, Galicia would not approve on the basis of dependency. And one of the reasons why you don't approve is for 24% of dependents who are pending to receive their own benefit, which is the second community with more people on waiting lists. And also the number of serious dependents falls by 7.3% mainly because of the deaths and hardening of the barriers. We're, as always, on the tail of the state. We also have to talk about the average to give this kind of help, about 210 days. It's one of the big eyves, the little administrative agility that exists. And no longer to mention the tree systems, which come back a little bit to the roles that are the greatest care at home. On the other hand, also the committee of entities representing people with disabilities in Galicia also talks about the conch, which is intended to be an exemption to whom it receives less than 2.5 of the public indicator of multiple-effect income. The current dependency system has led thousands of people to an extreme situation, which has been expelled from the system and which has prevented them from exercising their own social rights, because no one should be left for lack of resources. And also the last one, because you always make very new solutions and, as I say, a lot of propaganda... they taught us, as I said before, the check-baby and other series of premiums. Even now if we are offered – which seems good to me, it even agitates many things – what is the credit card for the degrees of disability. That, by the way, as always, we're going to the state queue, we're going to be from the last communities; in fact it's already applied in 14 of the 17 we are. And basically these things, which is quite enough, but there are other nuances that I'm going to leave for the second round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. King Varela. You inherited, actually, a councillor who was making a mess, abandoned. And it's true that at least you have to recognize that you meet with the collectives and some workers and workers. Because the former advisor wasn't even that, there were centers in which they didn't even know her – and I tell her truthfully – that I visited and that I had never been there. But I have to tell you that real changes in the new Council of Social Policy are not being taken, we are not perceiving them. In fact, you bring here today that content of the new social agenda that doesn't mean anything new, besides that relationship that they had already had to take before with the other administrations and that it seems they're going to start now, which I also understand has to do with that Social Inclusion Strategy. A text that at the time – we moved it – was impossible to comply with austerity policies. The Inclusion Strategy was already starting from an analysis of the reality that gives a tremendous picture of our country. We can even match the first pages of our own strategy where nearly 1 in every... Welsh and Greek is poor. He analyzed various indices and measurements on all the first pages of his own strategy and, however, the posteriori of admitting this deterioration in the Gini index, an increase in poverty, a worrying increase in child poverty, etc., despite admitting that reality that we have already known and that we have denounced on several occasions in this House, they were starting from the basis of you, and so they continue to maintain it, that in order to solve these problems and the problem of poverty they had to take note of the European Commission's recommendations on combating poverty, and even of the strategy of the central government's stability programme. I think it's a joke of taste both one thing and the other. We can show that they're going the opposite way. I understand that just as much what is being presented here today as the strategy itself and its supposedly transversal axes are incompatible with maintaining that policy of cuts and that policy of austerity. They were talking about preventing poverty, fighting child poverty, promoting equality between women and men, about transversal ones that should supposedly serve you to prepare what brings us here today, but which are honestly impossible to comply with if you keep the same policy. We should be doing here today a correction of the general policy of this government. Child poverty – you have stopped at this point but I know that it also has to do with what you are presenting today – has increased according to the ESC, the Economic and Social Council, 46% in the 16-year-olds in Galicia, and 63% in the 16-24 young people and girls. According to the ESC, 127,000 girls and boys and girls in Galicia are in poverty. We had a debate the other day in which we were all groups in this House at the First Congress of Children. The families of these children and children come from the poverty situation, which you have just described to us above. We are practically underdevelopment, because the INE itself, which gave new data today, tells us, moreover, that energy poverty has increased by 14% in Galicia, that there are 150,000 Welsh people living in situations of severe material poverty, and that 13% of the workers are poor. This year 2015 – that data was released today – the poverty in Galicia increased by four points with the policies of the People's Party both of the Central Government and of the Autonomics, in which already last year they wanted to talk to us about a supposed recovery. We obviously know it's not like that and we've already got it on the table. So, both by talking about the Social Inclusion Strategy and the new Social Agenda that brings us here today, it's just a little bit useful for this announcement of new patches if you keep the same type of policies in both economics and public services and the rest of the government's issues. And besides, you bring this here by announcing a number of millions, as if there was really a new investment in this matter. The reality is that you give is the stratum of what they use of the budget that the Galician Union has. I mean, obviously he can't go out somewhere else. There is no new investment, you just figure out a plan you're planning on going on. But already entering the measures that you bring here today, we also knew last week that debt already exceeded the value of state GDP, and that in Galicia we also have an increase in huge debt since Mr Feijóo entered, 140%. We have already risen from 10,000 million debt and, therefore, we understand that this is totally incompatible – when we live cuts – with pretending, as you brought here, to announce an improvement in social conditions. You were talking about the electric ticket. This help is only for people who, at most, cover little more than 700 euros; that is, really these people have to be in a situation of already advanced material necessity. But it's a help that, in addition, if we divide the amount you're moving between the number of aids, it really gives you between 10,000 or 10,500 tips -- about a half -- when we're talking about over 672,000 Greeks and Greeks in poverty. Collaboration between administrations is fantastic. We think they're going to be late, because this should have done it before. But it's no use if you're still imposing on the county budget restrictions and regulations. You talked about home help, but you didn't explain – and you wouldn't be all right, because it's related, though it's not exactly the same – that order of March 8, 2016 of your board where precisely the regulatory bases of public summons were established for the granting of individual aids to help with personal autonomy. I mean, it's not exactly the same, but obviously it's related, because you've also talked about early attention here. In that order, much of the people were left out, or almost all the people, because you set up an impediment to access those aids, which was to enjoy another type of help or some type of dependency benefit. Dependency law on which we continue to be with the same problem practically a few months ago. It has been announced on many occasions that the plaintiffs have increased, but this – we have discussed here on one occasion – was also precisely by the entry of those persons dependent on grade 1. It would also be positive, since you talked about the inclusion of vulnerable groups, whether they were also derogated or if you talked about what you would do about the orders that cut the hours of attention to dependent people or why, despite you talked about that help at home, we kept these restrictions on social security contributions for people who care for dependent people. It would be positive. On the other hand, another topic: you talked about social rent. The reality is, as we already know, for the year 2016, if we divide the amount we had for the entire budget of those aids between the maximum amount that can be assumed, which is 150 euros, it gives us that about 791 people would serve you. And we've also remembered here in this House that, despite the fact that more or less the defeats remain stable, and last year there were 18,000 evictions in Galicia, you only met a reallocation of 45 of those 18,000. So what you're putting on are patches, you come in the electoral period -- the truth is today and the previous full-times were a set of ads in that matter -- moving something like they did us a favor, keeping the rest of the cuts and the rest of the regulations that led us up here. Obviously, if we continue to keep the work precarious and, therefore, we maintain that increase of poor workers, if we continue to keep the restrictions that have brought us here... for example, I don't think you've talked about the help to drugs, but I think you've also included it. I didn't hear him or maybe he was undressed. But, of course, what they had to do, instead of giving a bonus, a help, is to derogate precisely the Royal Decree 16/2012, to ask the Central Government, and to implement that exit from all those medicines that you have removed from the health portfolio. I mean, what they're bringing here are patches, when reality is that the entire government policy deserves a correction. Obviously, we can value the relationship that you have not made with the municipalities themselves, but obviously you have to increase – we have said it on other occasions – the budget – and I finish already – devoted to social integration income is not to assume. You precisely cut 51% into active employment policies and that's why you now have to increase the income of social integration, among other things we'll talk about on the second shift. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u94	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Counsellor. Indeed, I also want to begin, like Mrs. Solla, by recognizing the effort and the work by trying to put order in a council which, frankly, left very much to wish in all respects. But before we analyze Galicia's new Social Agenda, I think, after listening to you, to see the work you're doing, reality is clearly dialectic. We already have two legislations in which we can analyze what the government of Feijóo has meant, the two governments of Feijóo, these two laws, about exactly the well-being; about a matter as important as poverty. Sure, if we go back a few years, what's going on?: paralization of the Dependency Act. We can even say – you know it perfectly – that it disassembles itself with the facts of the Dependency Law itself, what it was pursuing and its objectives, making many people put themselves in the limbo of the dependency, are constantly reassessed, are pending a benefit after it has been evaluated and has been granted that benefit. More aspects. You know perfectly well that one of the first measures Mr. Feijóo had taken was to paralyze and dismantle the inclusion teams of the cities, the teams that worked with the most disadvantaged. You also know perfectly well that, gradually, in the early years of the Feijóo governments, what you do is to dismantle the concerted plan, dramatically reduce the funds for the agreed plan. Yeah, yeah, almost 70%. We have eliminated hours of home help; in fact, we have reviewed many initiatives, both in full and in commission, of demands that have brought us to parliamentary groups since the councils for this reduction in hours of home aid. We are no longer talking about dismantling the offices of R+B, of the times we have brought to this House such themes as privatization in the larger centres, in the day centers, in the centers of the public network, which are not done, and the demand by the workers of the public centers, of how they are being left, we are going to say... I think that, in addition to bringing here even the own report – you know – about the lack of direct social policy centers being such a calibre that almost sometimes it is impossible to repair many of the facilities. Well, in the face of that situation that we've been dragging over these years and the development of a law of social inclusion, where, let me say, the People's Party has little in the design of Risk and the supplements for Risk, as can be those referred to in energy poverty or those referred to in housing... I remember that there were amendments by all the political groups in the opposition where these issues were improved. It doesn't even have to be so new; copying or drawing on laws that already existed in other autonomous communities or in other nations as in Euskadi, where there are additions to people who are, for example, in labour poverty, energy poverty or who cannot afford their homes. So, when we saw the new Galician Social Agenda, which you explained today, and its index, where all the income support measures are collected, energy poverty, residential inclusion, social inclusion programs and projects, dependency care, child poverty, recruitment of special staff for social services, addressed to social initiative entities, in collaboration with other agents, which are the proposed measures, the truth is that I must confess to you that at least we have taken steps and done something on the way, because I remember the first times we discussed in this plenary about energy poverty, where we were told there was no energy poverty in Galicia. That's recorded, there's this documentation, where we've been repeated that didn't exist and that, in any case, we were faced with situations of "energy vulnerability," I think I remember exactly the term. Well, we have gathered the approach of energy poverty in this text, as well as of child poverty, which has been discussed at times as well; that is, we assume, the Government, that we are facing situations of inequality that establish rates of poverty. As we can see today also in a very, very recent news, the risk of poverty and exclusion rises in 2015 after having actually been down during the last 14 and 15. I think this is a new one that must be alarming. And besides, look, Counselor, you know poverty perfectly – but here you have explained to us that you have met with experts on this topic – which depends on a lot of variables, but in Galicia the wages have declined more than in the state average, placing us on which 300 euros in the average in the last decade. That's the situation; we're in a situation even of labour poverty, so defined. So in the face of this situation, the truth is, when we analyze this new agenda, we see that there is a new question that is interesting to us: there are no indicators in the Agenda. I don't know if this is a very incipient version, to which we could have access, but simply if we talk about describing the programs – many of them are already in operation, you know – of the actors who are involved, of the different councils, of the different institutions, whether they are deputies or councils, but not of the indicators against which this new Social Agenda bet will be evaluated, which, frankly, is the necessity that Feijóo has of, at the end of the legislation, explain or amend the outcome of the Wellness Council; a fundamental advice that has been disassembled over the last few years and that you are ordered to amend it. I think it's kind of an amendment, and everything that comes from amendment, for it will be right. It must be acknowledged that there is indeed a situation of poverty to be faced. But, of course, if we're talking about -- and so on -- some 630,000 people at risk of poverty, don't you think the data you've given us is very scarce to deal with that, with energy poverty? If we're talking about 180,000 people at risk of energy poverty, or the energy ticket, endowed with just over two million euros, how many people will arrive and actually alleviate that energy poverty? Really, why not take a step forward and put in place effective measures to prevent energy supply cuts, as if it were required to end energy poverty? And the same with regard to the approach to child poverty; that is, they are very small and very uncontextualized measures of what must be an integral measure of action in this regard. And finally, something that doesn't appear to be collected on the new Social Agenda. I do want today, in addition, I don't know whether to congratulate or criticize him about it because, after two years of warning that he's going to do with the Welfare Agency and that he's going to go through all the services provided by the Consortium, I suppose that you, as you have experience of being mayor, review that and now there's a new framework for collaboration within the Consortium. But I have to get to this point! We've been missing a lot of hours. The mayors and mayors have had a lot of headaches because they thought they were doing schools, day centers, care centers for the older people... in this they told us by active and passiveness that the Consortium was disbanded and that the Welfare Agency was set up, when in the Social Services Act itself it was simply contemplated as a accompanying organism, not that it would manage, and when it was already passed to the Agency the centers that depend on the Board itself. And now, well, May 11, 2016, framework agreement between the Fegamp and the Social Policy Council in relation to the Galego Consortium of Services of Equality and Welfare. I read it carefully. I understand, Counsellor, that what this framework agreement says is that the Consortium will continue to work. This is a direct question because you really know exactly what we're discussing here. Will the Consortium continue to work? What's going to happen to the Wellness Agency? Is the Welfare Agency responsible for managing this new agenda? Look at you talking about collaboration between administrations here! I understand that the Consortium was a model of collaboration. What will be the model of collaboration between Members, Councils and the Social Policy Council to implement this new Agenda – I am sorry, which I do not remember exactly the name – Social of Galicia?, which is really the implementation of the Act of inclusion and those small aspects that remained of that Act of inclusion. You will understand that, for example – Mrs Solla has told you, but we can reiterate it – the measures regarding housing are totally insufficient and are, in any case, a way of recognizing the great work that has been done by the social movements, which have gone out on the street to denounce the rejections. So, if you are presenting to us today this new Galician Social Agenda, which are really patched up in a situation of inequality and widespread poverty, we should thank all the people who, from social movements, from NGOs and, indeed, from the entities that collaborate in the field of poverty, have made it clear that the cuts are, that it is impossible to do more with less and that during these years the child welfare state has been dismantled. We are talking about poverty and alarming poverty rates because inadequate measures and policies have been taken. We hope that we will explain more often what indicators are going to analyze all these measures, how they will be evaluated and what are the budgetary increases proposed by your board...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u95	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u96	...not only in 2016 but also in that forecast they're making for 2017. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Social Policy Advisor, I think I'm going to verbalize what it seems to me that, at least, the whole side of the opposition we're thinking and nobody dares say so clearly. The truth is that we attend the first full not of the Social Agenda, but of the political agenda of Mr. Núñez Feijóo, which is the precipitate of the autonomous elections. We noticed this in the morning with the attendance of the sea councillor and we found that in the afternoon with his appearance, Counsellor, because, frankly, what you are doing is systematically denying at each board of spokespersons the attendances requested by opposition groups so the president will come here to explain why the popular party model fails in the labour market, why Galicia's figures compared to other autonomous communities and the state average are worse than the labour market or why social spending has been reduced by 8% in our country since Mr. Feijóo's rule. And, for example, in this plenary session, we ask socialists to come in addition to talking about the labour market, the president and counsellors came up to explain these unconstitutional issues that the Central Government imposes on the Government of Wales by the Law of the Land. All this is always denied because there is no time, because the agenda of the plenary is very wide or because there are too many matters to debate, and yet now, we have begun Mr Feijó's political agenda for the electoral pre-campaign, because, therefore, the request itself, can come by counsellors and advisors parade by the plenary of Parliament in Galicia which television dish to undertake that pre-campaign election. And allow me to highlight your presence in this pre-election campaign, in this attempt by the People's Party, that the Galician Parliament be regarded as a television dish to advertise the gracious social measures of the Government of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Because, of course, you say you come in to explain the Social Agenda, and you say – and justifiably – that they set up a Social Policy Council to fight poverty. Look, Counsellor, to fight poverty, what needs to be done is to make a different economic policy, where social spending has greater weight and where the cuts that have been imposed have been eliminated all these years. And, of course, that's not a question of creating a council, it's a question of ideology, it's a question of what we think is that in order to create a strong social state, a state of well-being that protects people who have less resources and who have to equip in rights the whole of people have to invest in social spending, and it's necessary, through taxes, to create the resources necessary to maintain that rule of law, against which, like you, they consider that there is a need to cut down and then make some kind of and timely action to replace rights by charity and charity. That's the policy that you come to explain to us here today. Because, what is relevant is that the General Directorate for Inclusion and Family increased its revenue by 25% in 2016 compared to 2015 when the Government Feijóo drew from the budget resources of the Galician Union since 2009 8% of the social expenditure? What else gives you one year to go up a budget game in a general address at 125%? Do you think that with that match, with that patch, you can alleviate the undo that they did in cutting people's rights and increasing the rates and payouts that he had to endure Galician citizenship for these years? Do you believe that with this 25% increase in the General Directorate of Family and Inclusion for this year 2016, you will be able to compensate for the impact that the family economy has had on the co-operage of medicines, the increase of co-opers in dependency, the increase of co-opers in enrolments of children's schools, the co-opers of disability, which have also increased, or everything they have done with the Dependency Law, of which I will then speak to you with more arrest? You, like me today, must have known a data that has just been published in which Galicia is located, once again, as the second autonomous community with the lowest pensions in the state, with the average retirement pension. Do you think that if you don't act on wages, if you don't act on employment, if you don't act on pensions, on contributions, if you don't act on taxes and on budgets with patch policies, can you really return the cut to the welfare state all these years? No counselor, I tell you, of course not. Look, you guys have a balance. Because, since we're on a pre-election run, opened up by Mr Feijóo in this full format where two advisers come in full to explain the kindness they haven't done until now, and if they want to commit to doing these little months left by Montepío tenants, they have a balance, and that balance has very hard data for Galician citizenship. That balance says we have, for the first time in history, since there are statistics, 38,300 homes in which no income comes in. And you have a benefit for these families, do you know how many families achieve the benefit of Galician social inclusion income? Only 30% of the people who don't have any income. You're never going to wonder why that allowance is not able to reach the universe of objective people. Well, you should ask yourself why, and I'm telling you, there are two questions in that benefit that are bad today and that you don't want to compromise on correcting them: The first one, you do not want to develop the Act of Inclusion so that the criteria set out in access to that benefit are clear and transparent, and not as until now: opaque; you do not want to publish on the website of the Board how much is the risk waiting list, how many people ask you and how many people to perceive, as other autonomous communities do well around us; you have dismantled – as Mrs. Adán reminded you – the inclusion teams of the seven major cities and the Marine Consortium; and you apply internal rules, which are not published in any Official Journal of Galicia, by which you exclude the provision of income of social inclusion from Galicia to people who applied lawfully would have a right. I mean, you, too, at risk, do that kind of politics. What was the conversion of the law of dependency? They turned the Dependency Law into a collective frustration, with a brutal waiting list, the highest in the state, counsellor. In this legislation more than 3,000 people were killed who had the right to receive benefits under the Dependency Act, without getting them; more than 3,000 people. And now, you want to reduce that waiting list by giving ridiculous benefits of 50 and 60 euros monthly, to reduce that waiting list and make the advertising effect that Galicia no longer has such dependency waiting list. I got a letter from a user in there. I got here yesterday. I got hundreds. That user is going to charge 63 euros a month. And do you know when you're going to pay for the delays since the year 2009? He'll end up paying him the delays in 2024. That's his law of dependence, that's Mr. Feijóo's law of dependence. First you ended up with the contributions of the caregivers, then you increased the trees to unsustainable levels for the families. They have day centers and residential centers, just built up, without opening up for not equipping them with staff and privatised all possible services. In families, Mr. Counsellor, first of all fees for access to education, to children's schools, to cut down all kinds of rights; and now, as I told you, they intend to cover up this mess with timely help. But there are also welcoming families, whom we heard today from Members and Members of this House, extended families or alien families, who are desperate because they don't give the children and children at home, because you prefer to institutionalize those minors in centres that charge the Greek public administration 1,800 euros a month by child or child, and against these welcoming families, the help you offer them is 240 euros a month by child or child. Yes, if you have a non-contributory pension or you are receiving a Risga, that welcoming family can no longer take care of that child or that child because you have no right to receive this EUR 240 help against the 1,800 they pay to the institutions. The public centres dependent on counseling, we have talked here many times about the situation in which they are: in deplorable conditions, with scarce staff and with serious deficiencies in what benefits they might be providing. And most of the management of residential centers, of day centers, is today in private hands, but not in the hands of social initiative entities, but in the hands of five companies in Galicia, there are five, taking all: Fesan, Eulen, Troncoso, Residential Doral and Geriatrics; signs of memory. Those are the five on which the Galician Union, Mr. Feijóo's government, grants them all kinds of benefits. And with the Town Councils, Counselor, you who was mayor, what happened to the Town Councils in these years of Mr. Feijóo's Government? First, he was cut off. Councils of less than 20,000 inhabitants can no longer give social services powers with this reform of the Local Administration Act, brutal for the municipalities. Then they tried to create an agency in which they also got out of the middle of the municipalities because the Consortium had in its assemble all the municipalities attached to it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u99	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u100	...but the agency only five representatives on that board of directors. Then they tried to charge the mayors and mayors with the delays, but theirs, also theirs, all the mayors and mayors showed up and left that document in a drawer, planted. And now, in May 2016, you can't come to the House to explain what happened with that agency, which was going to be born but which is not born – fortunately for everyone and for all – because if there's something that works, you have to let it work, and if not, the agency would have another task.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u101	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u102	I'll just talk to you about two...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u103	No, no, look at the time, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u104	I'm done, Mr. President. Two last questions: youth. You only use youth policies to remember the boys and girls when there are elections and so on, to promote the former general director politically within the People's Party. And then, Counselor, you didn't tell us anything about demography, you leave in possession to those we rule in the future, a more impoverished Galicia, older
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Gallego, please finish now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u106	...and with less competences. That's your inheritance, that's your social agenda, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u107	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Two minutes. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, in the last plenary session you were here, in this Parliament, reporting on all the measures that the Galician Union had put in place to fight poverty and social exclusion in Galicia. In this plenary session, you are now reporting a new measure: from Galicia's new social agenda to respond to the new reality of the Greeks and the Greeks. A social agenda that is a result of the commitment of municipalities of all colors; we are talking about agreeing with nationalist councils, socialist councils, popular municipalities, Mareas Town Councils, the Fegamp, the social entities... the result of this consensus and that commitment, today the new social agenda of Galicia is presented. And what is the response of the opposition in this Parliament? The answer is that it's an electoral proposal. The answer is that it's a patch to the situation of poverty and social exclusion, and the answer is that it's nothing new. I certainly do not ask them to be the height of that agreement of all the municipalities of all the colours of Galicia, nor of the agreement that reached the Union with the Fegamp, nor of the agreement they reached with the social entities. I don't expect you to be in that commitment, but of course, I think here, those who have just been campaigning for election and precipitate are you, because instead of talking about Galicia's new social agenda to fight poverty and the social exclusion of our community, they have come here to take stock of the last two welfare and social policy legislations. And look, what we're talking about is more resources, more resources for families, more resources for people who need it most, for those people who are worst going through it in our community. And you say they're slogans, that we've come here or that the counselor here is turning Parliament into a TV set. Now, look, you know perfectly well – because you were in the budget debate – that this year the Galician Summit for Social Inclusion is going to be EUR 97.8 million. Of course I don't think this is propaganda, it's money, money for those who pay, and the programs are funded to help people in Galicia who are in poverty or at risk of social exclusion. We're talking about this year's 21% increase in budget allocated to all these people; we're talking about that in December 2014, not today, Galician Union begins to fight poverty and social exclusion; we're talking about that in 2014 the strategy of social inclusion of Galicia was put in place, a document that was agreed with social entities, agreed with the councils, consensual with Fegamp, with more than 300 measures to combat that scourge that we have in our community, and with an budget of 520 million euros. [[Applause]] If you call it advertising, and call it propaganda, I'll assure you one thing, the Greeks and the Greeks what they want are budgets and measures on the table so that the Galician Union, together with the rest of the administrations, will act and solve their problems. [[Applause]] You're critical of Risk. There are actually more people right now who need the Risk. But did you answer Galician Union? Yes. How? Increasing the budget. Look, in 2009 there were 22 million euros to meet the people who were asking for Risga. In 2016, we have nearly 53 million euros to meet people who ask for Risk and there's also a new program with 10 million euros so those people who are taking a Risk can work, which is really what they want. And right now, in many municipalities, people who were feeling a Risk have already been hired; and right now, they're paying attention to 100% of the people who apply for Risk. 100% within that period of 2 months. And if we're talking about social inclusion aids, we have to talk about they're shielded with 4.5 million euros, which doubled the budget for the sociétés, which doubled the budget for the municipalities, which we don't remember now from the municipalities – it seems you do – but the municipalities are working with the board, and the board with the councils, since 2009 to fight poverty and social exclusion. And look, actually more resources, and you know, Junta is going to devote 26% more economic resources to fighting poverty and social exclusion, one third of that surplus resources, to families with less resources; for you advertising and propaganda, surely not for these families. And you know that in June 2015, a plan against economic inequality was put in place, a plan that had 20 million euros, which had support for mobility support materials, which had social renting aids, which had help for school material, which had help for those families who couldn't cope with the electric bill of light. And now what comes to tell us is that they take one more step, that there is a new measure at the disposal of all the Greeks and the Greeks, a measure that does not come unilaterally from the Board, a measure that was achieved thanks to the commitment of all the Councils of Galicia, and all and all those responsible at the front, who knew how they were up to it, and they knew why they know that they are directly every day dealing with and being with these people and with these families. We're talking about it as a consensual agenda, that the new agenda has an budget of 162 million euros, and that's one more step, because as the advisor explained, reality has changed. We're no longer talking about people who have the right to perceive a Risk, we're talking about people who, still working, are economically precarious. Of course, what we consider is that it is right to continue with these measures that have been put in place, but it is also necessary to act and put in place new measures, analysing the situation at present, and also coordinating all administrations and social entities. We consider it necessary to improve the planning of social policies, but always coordinated with all the administrations of Greece and with all the social entities working on this issue. That measures are necessary for citizenship, measures such as income support, approaches to energy poverty, attention to residential inclusion – those families that cannot access a decent housing – programs and projects of social inclusion, of dependence attention, of approaches to child poverty. We're talking about measures to hire the most specialized staff, to work in the municipalities, in the social services of the municipalities. We're talking about a fundamental measure, because the municipalities are people's gateway and, above all, social services. A person who is in a situation of exclusion or risk of exclusion does not come to Galician Union, goes to the municipalities. That's why Junta has to support the municipalities and strengthen staff so she can attend to all people. We are talking about measures directed at social initiative entities, which so important and so fundamental work they are doing with all the people in Galicia! And we're talking about collaborative measures with the municipalities and other social agents. In short, we are talking about more measures, about continuing those that have already been put in place, about putting in place new measures in view of the analysis of the current situation. We're talking about more resources, not just budgets, but what's increasing them now for inclusion issues. And we're talking more about commitment, above all, commitment not only to Galician Union. Today we must rise and thank all the councils that have participated with you, Counselor, all the social entities and all the representatives of the Fegamp, for they know how to meet the circumstances. They know what's happening in our community and they know what they have to do, work with the Galician Union, claim more resources to the Galician Union and care for the people who really matter, that it's not us. They are the people who are currently in poverty, in situations of social exclusion, who have no employment or who, having employment, do not have a desirable economic situation. So be aware of what we're reporting here today and be aware that it's a necessary measure right now for all the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Replica. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, commitment, involvement and coordination are fundamental to combating social exclusion. I tried to insist as much as possible that only the sum of everyone's efforts, and with comprehensive policies, will allow us to overcome the effects of exclusion, as well as attack the causes that cause them to be able to put an end to this problem. This is a task that the German Government takes on as a whole, not exclusively the Council of Social Policy, the whole Government of Galicia, because that is possible because Galicia has only one Government – which is not a minor issue –. And besides, you can do it in a cross-sectional way and with a document, the 2015-2016 Operational Plan of Social Inclusion and Galicia's Social Inclusion Strategy, where – as you know perfectly – 300 actions are to be developed, which many of these actions are to be realized in this new social agenda. This new social agenda, let's say it's the operating instrument through which they develop, with two very important agents in our territory, these strategies and these operational plans. The truth is, I'm a person of more concrete things than strategies and operational plans, and that's why we make an agenda with two agents -- I said -- very important. On the one hand, the councils of Galicia – all the municipalities of Galicia – which are the gateway to the most important social inclusion needs of our neighbours and neighbours; and on the other hand, the social entities, which often – have to say so – come to play a role that we do not provide the different administrations, and that is why they need all our support. Look, the truth is we're at a time when there's elections almost constantly, so, the truth is, every time you bring something here you can talk about electoralism, because either it's happened or it's coming. The truth is, what are we going to do with it? What I'm telling you is that since the Social Policy Council we've been working with the municipalities and months working with the entities working with poverty, precisely to order all the existing measures and to accompany them with a budget forecast. Because all the great words about society, justice and laws don't always end up reflecting on programs behind budget commitments. Well, look, I agree that in fact both I and the people on my team are visiting the entities, we are visiting the municipalities precisely to see at the foot of the street in our centers what's happening, precisely to be able to present programs like this. I said some measures, income measures, very important, 66.7 million euros; we include inclusion aids. Look, with regard to what has been said here at Risga, when I came to remember that the whole problem was that of deadlines, the deadlines are being fulfilled. The second theme, we're getting to a lot more families, because we're meeting the deadlines, to a lot more families, to a lot more than 10,000. Thirdly, we are going to develop this year – I said it at parliamentary headquarters, which is why I find it somewhat repetitive to say – the regulations so that more people can reach Risga. But you have to say everything, you can't say that families that don't have any kind of income have no right to Risk, that's not true, and so you said it textually, so I'm replicating. Residential inclusion care measures would seem few to them, but a few years ago there was none, more than 15 million euros of investment from Galician Union this year. Measures to address energy poverty: 2.7 million euros, social electric ticket, programs to avoid supply cuts and lower the receipt for the first time in ten years. Measures directed towards the approach of child poverty, look, I've already told them about the agreements with cities, I've already told them about the figures of fundamental educators in social services. I spoke before the drugs. And don't tell us about Madrid, here we are talking about Galicia. Galicia has competences in social services, and if some drug-related need situation is not met in Madrid, we guarantee that attention with a line that we will shortly adopt at the Council of Galicia. And I hope they like us to focus in Galicia and focus on the Greeks and the Greeks, because that's what the citizens are asking us to do, and that we focus on social initiative entities. [[Applause]] Look, the order, which is already published in the Official Journal of Galicia this year, doubles the economic amount allocated to social initiative entities, because we listen to them, accompany them and finance them, we do not use them. Secondly, the order of councils, which will be issued shortly after approval by the Council of the Council of Galicia, in the matter of inclusion, will be doubled. But, look, is this a commitment of the municipalities in the area of social inclusion or is it not a commitment of the municipalities in the field of social inclusion? They also told me about the dismantling of the agreed plan, and I told them it was going to increase the agreed plan, staff recruitment will take 14 million Euros partners. They know that the part of the agreed plan that fell was part of state funding, not part of self-financing. But we will also – as in another topic – urge this funding with funding from the Greeks and the Greeks. And, look, the most important social policy program that the board has with the municipalities is that of helping in the home, which has largely surpassed that most residual concept that has been remaining as a residual of the agreed plan. Look, do you know how much it was for the municipalities to join Galicia in 2009 at home aid hours? 20.4 million euros. Do you know how much it's going to be this month? EUR 49.3 million. We're talking about an increase since 2009 – so that they won't tell me we cut home help hours, because it's quite the opposite, we've increased them by 150% since 2009 – and I'm telling them that we're going to continue to increase it by the end of the year. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Because they only talked about the budget – which then I'm going to tell you a couple of things about the budget – but in addition to the budget I suppose they'll know by the board of directors of the past two weeks that there's an extra responsibility, and that social policy is receiving funds from the Council of Galicia's deficit compliance that will allow us to increase our budgets even further. And that's not to assume, that's to say that we're on the ground, that we want to work more on social policies, because we know, of course! Of course you do! It's just that we're not doing any merit, we're fulfilling our obligation to support people who need it most, but we're able to do it because we have budgetary resources to do it and because we know how to design policies needed for that situation. [[Applause]] Look, actually, today, INE poverty data came out, the truth is that statistics also have what they have, that every statistic we take tells us different things. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I am going to quote it, because the member of the Joint Group quoted it, to give her the full data, because before the complete data was given, the risk rate of poverty in Galicia; according to the INE – as it was published today – 19.4% – this is the data published today. [[Murmurs.]] In 2009 it was 20.6, – that is a published data –. [[Murmurs.]] And, look, the national data of all Spain at risk of poverty, which is now 22.1, was 20.4 in 2009; so Galicia presents a better risk of poverty than the whole state. What, of course, do we have much left to do? Of course! But, of course, what we can't turn statistics around. Then they told me that the government of Feijóo has come down, cut off budgets. Look, it's just that the problem was always the way we compared it, that now we have a Social Policy Council, because it used to add pot with merines, one said that social spending was this, that social spending was the other. [[Murmurs.]] So look, in 2009, at spending centres that now make up the Social Policy Council, budget, 440 million euros; in 2016, 612 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The increase this year is 12%, but the increase accumulated since 2009 is 39%, so I don't think we should talk about electoralism, because this has been a steady growth. Look, they tell us about population policy, the Directorate-General of the Family Budget this year rose by 38%, but since 2009 by 104%. In the General Direction of Inclusion, the increase this year is 21%, but the accumulation since 2009 is 47%. General Directorate of Majors and Persons with Disabilities, or Dependency – I think today is not the day to speak, but, well, they told me about dependency – 7% increase this year, accumulated increase of 32%, 213 million euros in 2009, 281 in 2016. I'm telling them we're counting on them to increase further in the next few weeks. But, look, another fact of what I was told, which is dependence. That, I tell you, we invested much more than in 2009, there was no unemployment in 2009. What happens is that the law was born as it was born, without funding and in a period of very intense crisis of the last few years, so listen, I don't want to go back to 2009, but if we stopped it in 2009, there would be 14,000 dependents attended, and now there are 43,000 dependents attended. But we have already said that we have an objective for this year, that we will meet through all the instruments that are provided for in the Dependency Act, which is to reach 50,000 dependents attended in Galicia, and not through bookstores exclusively; through libraries, through home help, through bookstores linked to services, through new large residential squares and through new residential squares in the field of disability. [[Applause]] And I'll tell them, but what I'm telling you is that they're going to see you from here at the end of the year in the Official Journal of Galicia, which is what you're talking about in the statistics that removes the State from the number of dependents treated. And I'm telling you, our commitment is going to do it, we're going to do it because we have a government that wants to boost social policy, a government that wants to care for its elders and care for its dependents, a government that has done its homework these years and therefore has economic resources to do it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u111	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u112	Thank you, President. Well, they were commenting on the things that were coming out in the first round, the data you gave, I've already said in the previous plenary, with the other advisor, that there are many types of data. The data really isn't invented, it depends on where you look, but they're there. If I'm hallucinated – so to speak in a certain way – that we assume a strategy of social inclusion of Galicia in 2014, and before we were here?, how many years have you been ruling? 300 measures, right? And it's not a merit, it's your duty, it's your obligation, they have to find solutions to Greek citizenship. And I repeat the word again, one of the most repeated words today in its appearance, collaboration, cooperation, structural policies, specialized policies, support policies, custom policies and, above all, prevention policies. It seems to me very good that they go out the street knowing the needs of citizens and citizens, is that it's their obligation, it's not to stay in the office, of course, I think. On the other hand, I find it very important that collaboration – and I congratulate you – with the different local administrations, because it is true that they are those administrations closest to citizenship, they have an important weight, but it is you who have the last word, it is those who are obliged to coordinate and organize all that work, and of course, I cannot forget about social organizations, which would be a lot of people without those organizations? And I repeat again, and I'll never get tired of repeating, non-profit organizations, other kinds of collectives, platforms, NGOs, are born because there's a great social axis, they're born because the government doesn't do what it has to do, it doesn't do its duty. Then, from the people who need the Risk. They're talking about an increase, of course; if there's a greater need, there'll have to be a greater increase, they're assuming the greatest increase. Unfortunately, the number of needs, of people in need, rises. And then, what I think is fascinating, too, that they give as merit that in two months, more or less, we process, it would only be missing! I think we have to compare ourselves with other parts of the state, even with other countries, that bureaucracy works well, we don't have to go back and ask for our rights, the rights are there, and the Administration and the Government have an obligation to apply them. I just... I don't know! Then, if it's true that the resources... there's statistics, about the types of risk aid, problems that people find, with the payment of rent or mortgage, which is 7.2% in relation to the population of Greece, which has unforeseen, right?, that almost 37% is not able to cope with any contingency over the month. Then another thing – speaking of one of the subjects, as you said today, does not touch the dependency, but I will say other things – is very incoherent the help they give, especially in childhood, with the fact that they can have children and children; on the one hand they pay taxes, they rise taxes, everything goes up, it's like the one who takes away the dish of food from us and gives us a candy. It is incoherent that check drinks, that if this, if the other one, that everything is going up, let's see! One of the major measures would actually be, for example, because school enrolments, compulsory education, which were free, all the material, or that certain products of first need had a discount, what's a baby check if it's something timely that they always present at the time that there's going to be an election? Then I'll also tell you something else, the dependency, I hope you'll be much more agile when you give the help, and that it doesn't happen like some case that took almost five years and had to go to trial, and especially that we always have to go to private entities, because there's no option in the public. Even the alienation of the family itself, whether for older people or people, for example, who have problems with functional diversity, or some kind of disability. We have to always make choices in the public and also guarantee the working rights of these people, not only for the personal rights of the staff that they work, but for the rights of users and users themselves. Above all, that's why I say it's nothing worthy, unfortunately there's a great need in this country and the increases they're going to make, yes, they're okay, but they're insufficient, unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u114	Well, congratulations, Counselor. You're the first counselor who wants to talk about Galicia and not about Andalusia or Venezuela. I am quite glad that this is the case, the problem is that we must also talk about the state and state rules, not only because the People's Party is ruling in central government and here too, not only because the laws are applicable also in Galicia, but also because Mr. Feijóo's government has been the student advantaged in applying those rules and cuts. And I was talking, for example, about the matter of pharmaceuticals, which is a fantastic measure of yours. First they take drugs from the health portfolio, they give us compensation in people who didn't have to pay that much so that now they're fattening, 50%, then in most of their incomes, and now they're moving us some social help to help us out their own cuts. Well, the truth is, it seems funny, they'll take our rights first and then they'll put us in a patch, what you have is to claim to the central government that returns universality and, of course, that ends with compensations in pharmaceutical matter, and, of course, that it will again include those drugs out of the catalogue. I don't know where you've come from, besides, those fictitious budget increase figures across the globe, at least Mrs. Rodríguez was a little more realistic and gave us the nominal data in 2016, I think she talked about 98 million euros. The problem is that since Mr Feijóo's first government, since the year 2009, the cut was also spoken by the spokesperson for the PSdEG, the nominal cut in terms, in terms of the whole social matter, is around 700 million euros, in terms of nominal 641 million euros, which in real terms are many more. We've talked about it here on other occasions, and in addition to all the payment commitments they make, among other things, to the Health Council, but also to other advisors. And, therefore, obviously, that you now put on a small patch – because even if we're at the time of the election – will not supply all the cuts that you've done all these years. Precisely the Risk didn't come in, you said at first, in that new social agenda, but you used it in this intervention, or in this appearance, I understand that because you had nothing else to talk about. But if you're talking about Risk and you say you're paying or getting more than 10,000 Risks, I'd like to know how many more there are, tell us the exact figure, please, what are, at most, 13,000?, do you know how many people are without benefit in Galicia? More than 162,000 people without any kind of benefit. Obviously, this doesn't supplement, and obviously you've had to increase your share of social integration income and some other help because you've deducted them from the job promotion games, pulled them out of the games to create jobs. And you applied the rules that reduced the quality of employment and wages. Of course, there are a lot of people who, if they have a wage and are poor, 13% said I was in the first intervention, so we are, but this hasn't seen from the sky, you saw because you've applied budgetary restrictions and a number of regulations that were voluntary and optional, and obviously when they come to transfer us now that we're very satisfied with the deficit, and that because of that we're going to be able to invest in child policy, well, it's little less than a joke. First they apply the cuts and then they tell us they're very gifted and that they're going to invest part of what they've cut to fill the gaps that children and girls have. The fact is, despite all that -- I said in the previous intervention -- we have a debt shot since Mr. Feijóo arrived, also in the central government, we knew last week that increase. But here too, and unfortunately that increase in debt did not serve to increase social services, public services, quite the opposite, quite the opposite. Do you want to talk about child poverty? Why do you continually vote against the freeness of textbooks, the freeness of school transportation, the freeness of school lunchers? Why do you always vote against it and then set out help? I mean, we're talking about it throughout the legislation, we're in a policy of aid, bonds, when they cut us off in parallel directly in the budgets of the Health Council, social policy, etc., etc., employment. What you have is to increase your income and actually apply a redistribution, let's say, of wealth and make some budgets as appropriate, not cut our budgets, commit yourself to paying more and more credits and commitments, and at the same time, even above all, to pursue a policy of aid. He didn't answer me – and I'm done now, because I don't have time – to the questions I asked him why you cut the access conditions for those aids, personal autonomy in the home, why now, practically, nobody can access, because they're incompatible with other kinds of help. So – I repeat – I transfer the same as in the previous intervention, these are just patches, announcements of an election campaign that obviously do not complete all the cuts that you have practiced in social policy. If they divide -- and I said in the previous intervention -- the budget that they devoted to the rental bonus, the energy ticket, etc., etc., between the total number and the amount of each aid, they simply give to a few hundred people; of course, that's not a policy that's going to fill the enormous poverty that affects more than 672,000 people in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u116	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, Counsellor, the statistics on this subject are complex statistics, but today the data do tell us – and here we have them, and the newspapers echo them – that actually raises the risk of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia. We know that this is the way INE, which has the IGE, even if we go to the way it is analyzed from the Europe 2020 strategy, is completely divergent. We took a data, the IGE, for example. We can say that there are in Galicia, according to data – and they are revised yesterday – 398,649 people at risk of poverty. That's what the IGE tells us with as this definition of the poverty risk rate the percentage of people with an income equivalent to the threshold of Galicia's poverty risk, which is set at 60% of the median equivalent income. So if these are the people at this risk of poverty and the data you give us about Risk, or for example of the budgets that are going to be dedicated, I have here that the total amount of the social agenda is EUR 161,999. That's the data I have and I suppose it's the data you've worked on with the municipalities and the deputies. It will understand that we are talking about the aid, for example, for energy poverty, being EUR 2 million. That's what's recorded, when these 398,000 people have and suffer from energy poverty. I mean, they have real difficulties paying for electricity and energy supply. That's reality, and that's according to the different reports of agencies specializing in energy poverty issues. But we can go, if you want, one by one for all programs. What are the real increases in other programs in this respect? Risga. We're not going to deny it. I never listened to any voice from the opposition to deny that there had been increases in risk allocations, because indeed there were, because there was a very clear increase in the poverty rate and in the people who needed it. Here we demand that the deadlines be met. You have not heard us now that we have made criticism, because indeed thanks to the denunciation of many people – of many people, because here only we have done the work we have to do, we have no merit – but of many people who have denounced delays in the Risga there has been a silence, as the law requires, as the law requires, simply. So we have doubts about this schedule is, what will involve the Plan Aluga, the renter, the realox for people with mortgage executions, for housing insertion, the lease bonus? All the measures that appear here with regard to the indicators of how many people are affected, because they are not on the agenda. The most specific numbers there are, it's true, the number of workers and workers to be hired, I understand that for the municipalities it was fundamental. Because I remind you again that the first step you take is to remove the city inclusion teams. It's the first measure of 2009, which meant for many cities to get their workers and social workers to take care of the work they were doing these inclusion teams, which you know very well that in many cases they were formed by seven or eight people, and that they were fundamental to... and that they were also being administered, or were doing their work, through the Equality and Welfare Services Consortium, which now you actually keep, which is a good news, but which could keep with services as was the case with the inclusion plans, which were doing a magnificent job, or with the R & D offices. We certainly understand that this collaboration between administrations is important. But of course, that collaboration between the administrations – which I also took note of what the spokesperson for the People's Party said – people say that the board has to strengthen the councils. Yes, indeed, but what you did to Junta during these years was not to strengthen the municipalities, quite the opposite. Now this relationship is planted and this collaboration is planted, but neither did it with the consortium, nor did it with the agreed plan, nor did it with the help of the home, because, in fact, here it was brought here, on repeated occasions, which meant the limitation of hours, one thing is that now, with regard to dependency, if they are increasing. And it was also a very debated subject, in cities like Vigo there was a major cut of these funds, which is one I remember. So when equipment was removed, when the agreed plan was reduced, when real decrees were removed from the dependency law, at this moment I still maintain that this is a remedy, that one of the most positive things you have is that we can counter that program budget. I would ask the Counsellor to add the indicators against which we will be able to understand how many people, how many families, whether they arrive with each of the programs, because the data, although it is difficult to measure the poverty rate, tell us that almost 400,000 people are at risk of poverty. How many people and how many homes – this is a very specific question – consider the counsellor who will arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u118	...with this Galician social agenda? That's the question. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u119	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the citizen's letter to which his territorial delegation has just answered that since 2009 he had asked for it – without time being – for a relief for care around the family, with an allowance of EUR 67.20 per month, and the delays – which amount to no less than EUR 5,510.40 – will be paid until the year 2024, at a rate of EUR 688.80 per year. So you can say that you are not granting libraries to download the dependency waiting list. That's what they've been granting since January this year, basically. Well, I've got a lot to teach you. If you want, every time he comes, I'll bring him one. By the way, it's not like you're coming here much, it's that we bring you here because we're questioning you. Because in the past, if you could explain what was going on with the Act of Inclusion, it was because the Socialist Group brought here an interpellation for you to realize, that if you didn't come, it wouldn't show up. When we talk about this as an election schedule, we say it for two very simple reasons, Counselor. First, because if you wanted to use the Community support framework 2014-2020 to make a strategic programme, an operational programme, or whatever you want to call it, the social agenda or the fight against poverty, or against inequality, you could have perfectly approved it with an absolute majority in 2013 or 2012 to put it on course, indeed, on 1 January 2014. And no, they bring this programme, which has to do with precisely the legal obligations of the Government of Galicia to submit operational programmes before the Community authorities, in order to comply with this Community support framework in May 2016, before the end of the legislation. And as Mrs. Adam reminded you, without any follow-up indicators. When will we be able to see that what you announce here today in this electoral schedule is being fulfilled, Counselor? Elections are in October. Let's get Mr. Feijóo to stretch until November, how are we going to see that this isn't fireworks and electoral propaganda, not real commitments? Why couldn't the German Government have done so far a social agenda and it was four or five months ago that this legislation ended? Doesn't it seem to you that we have the right to question your commitment, since you're presenting it at discount time? Look, you used to say that Risga was reaching out to a lot of people. Your data, March 31, 10,300 people receiving Risga, 38.300 homes that don't enter any income. I'll tell you every time he comes. And then we were told that today's INE said that percent in Galicia today is less poverty than in 2009. Please, Counselor, you've missed your notes! So look, there's one thing called average income in Galicia, which in recent years has fallen 10%, which is lower, 13%, than the average state, and 20% lower than Europe. Are you happy that you have lowered the average income and, therefore, that it seems, only seems, that there is less poverty in Galicia, when there are actually more people in poverty and at risk of social exclusion? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No longer handles the statistics. Look, and yes, there'll be more hours of home help, but they give every person less hours. That's the cut, you know? Because probably in the global calculation as dependence also has to do with home aids, there will be more hours, but each person's right has been cut off by the Government of the People's Party. Look, I don't deny that you can be more sympathetic than the previous Counselor, I don't deny it, but it's not about it. [[Murmurs.]] It's ideology, it's the model of society that we want to build, it's not a question of empathy, or that you've been mayor knows better the problems there was in the country. No, no. It's trying, with these tips that you announce to us today, to cover the sun with your finger. And you can't. If they really want to fight poverty, social exclusion and the inequality that you have provoked with the measures they have taken during the economic crisis, what they have to do is restore the rights that have been set aside for people. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Reset people's rights. And look, they could start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u121	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u122	...for example, by going to the limit of the level of debt we have and spending 80 million more euros this year on social expenditure, for example. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They could start with that when they made the budget. But no, they preferred to be champions of meeting the deficit leaving without using 80 million euros more than we could have equal met the deficit limits, and dedicated them to those people who are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u124	...in difficulty. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the Town Councils, Counselor. I do not deny that you know better the problems of the Town Councils, but the governments of the People's Party in Galicia and Mr. Rajoy's Government cut at 65% the funds of the agreed plan, removed the inclusion offices and cut the competences of the Town Councils. You can now try to put patches on, but the truth is written and you know it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u125	Thank you, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u126	...like me. So look, social agenda, yes, electoral agenda, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u127	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. The truth is, Mrs Gallego says, the truth is that the Government of the People's Party has caused this situation in Galicia, that the People's Party has caused this economic crisis in Spain, because of the People's Party if they have had to make cuts, because of the People's Party there are families that have no income, because of the People's Party there are many people who do not have a job right now. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, it's surreal, it's surreal to hear from a Socialist Party spokesman what we just heard. Because look, you can't come here... you can't come here... anyone, Mrs. Gallego, has to stick to what's on you, and you don't come here free of dust and straw. [[Applause]] You belong to a party, the Socialist Party, which will certainly have to do with something, something will have to do with the economic situation that the People's Party found when it comes to government. Something'll have to do with it. [[Protests.]] But look... If I may, if I may speak in this Parliament... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u129	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u130	...if I may...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u131	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u132	I'm sorry, I know that sometimes it hurts, but if you'll excuse me, if you'll excuse me... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u133	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u134	You can't talk about the Socialist Party, we don't talk about it. You can't talk about the management of the Socialist Party, we can't talk about it. You can't talk to other communities, we don't talk. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We don't talk about Andalusia. We don't talk about Andalusia. We're not talking about Venezuela. We're not talking about Venezuela. But look, the ones who come here from Venezuela are the ladies who bring Chavez's shirt, I swear, I vote for Maduro. But, let's see, can you talk about Venezuela or not about Venezuela? [[Applause]] And I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u136	...I hope, Mr. Ron...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u137	Quiet, quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u138	And I hope so, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u139	Quiet, please. Quiet, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias is speaking. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u140	And I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u141	No, no! Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]] It's in the use of the word, for now you have the right to speak. I don't think they should interrupt her, you don't like her either. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u142	It's the new policy, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] I hope that the Members and the Members of the AGE Parliamentary Group, as well as the gratisty of their comrade in President Chávez's T-shirt, as well as just applauded, who also applauded what we are going to say. Now if we're going to talk about Venezuela, and we're going to wake up of these 30,000 Welsh people who live in Venezuela and are going through a very complicated economic situation, and also with a lot of needs. Of them we remember and for them today goes our reference and our memory to Venezuela. [[Applause]] And the argument... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, this is a parliament, let me talk, let me talk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u143	Quiet. He's right. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, call to order. [[Laughter]] He opened... No, no, I hear you. [[Murmurs.]] I'm looking bad, but not hearing, eh! Then, call to order, Mr. Fajardo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead, Mrs Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u144	Counsellor, I will speak to you because it seems that this matter is not of interest to the Members of the opposition. They have just said that this Social Agenda for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion is an electoral agenda, which are fireworks and which is unique and exclusively electoral propaganda. Well, look, I have to give you the congratulations, because if you were able to bring, according to the opposition, an electoral agenda, with the complicity of the municipalities of all the political colours of Galicia, with the complicity of the socialist councils, with the complicity of the nationalist councils, with the complicity of the municipalities governed by the Mares and with the complicity of the municipalities governed in the coalition, of course, you have quite merit, Counsellor, because if the Galician Union brings here a social agenda that the critical opposition and it turns out to be an agreed agenda, spoken and dialogue with all the municipalities of Galicia, the truth is that you have more merit than you just recognized it. [[Applause]] And, of course, here we're talking about that the Government of Galicia has had to make certain adjustments because it's the champion of the deficit. It seems here that Members and Members of a particular political group come unaware of what has happened in our community not many years ago. And when it was happening in our community that led us to a tremendous situation for many people in Galicia, they were telling us that Galicia was at the Champion League, and now that measures are being taken to address the needs and problems that still many people have because of the years of the crisis, it turns out that they criticize the Unity of Galicia. But the truth, Counsellor, is that you have just shown us that, apart from the measures that have been put in place, apart from the resources that have been applied to fight poverty and social exclusion, now we have news, we have one step further, a most important step, because it is not a step from the Council of Galicia, it is a step from the Union, from the councils and social entities to speak to and help those who really care about us, the Greeks and the Greeks, the people who need it most. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Close shift of this appearance. Counsellor for Social Policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is that we speak on many occasions that public representatives must try to be in reality and to convey reality in our interventions. Look, the truth is that I haven't actually talked about other countries, and I haven't talked about Galicia as a magical country where everything is wonderful, but we've actually said that there are problems in Galicia, but we're also able, where there are problems, to put solutions, because that's why it has to be politics, and in addition to putting solutions through management, because one thing is talking and something else is, through action programs like those provided for in this Social Agenda, putting solutions where there were problems or putting more solutions so that there's ever less problems, but really listening to in a parliamentary forum that we're in a country that is maturing, desert and with desolate land, I don't think it makes it very easy for the people who listen to us out there to be able to feel identified with that Galicia. [[Applause]] I say again what I said in my first intervention. The measures provided for in this new Social Agenda – I understand that some political group may find it hard to understand what I am saying – are consistent with mayors of the Socialist Party, both with mayors of the BNG, one and the other, and with mayors of the Tide, one and the other. This councillor really talks to all mayors, regardless of the political party they belong to, because the Government has an obligation to represent all the Greeks and all the Greeks. [[Applause]] I understand, indeed, that in some of those benches – not in this – it is difficult to understand that we are able to reach agreements, not with our own, but with all the political groups, but really that these are the best ways to be able to get the Agenda results to reach all the Greeks and all the Greeks, because that is what we have to do; and also to be able to do it with our social fabric, because, indeed, they are the ones that push us and those that give us to know many situations that we sometimes do not know, the Autonomic Administration or local administrations, and situations of real need that we often have much closer than we think. That's why we're going to continue to work on incomes, so we're going to continue to work on measures to prevent energy poverty in Galicia and that's why we're going to continue to work on measures that avoid rejections. Because it depends on who you ask. There's a new public official who says there's no more defiances now. Yes, there are challenges and we have to be avoiding them constantly from the municipalities and also from the autonomous administration, because, I say, for some a year ago, there seems to be many and now it seems that there is none, for there is still. And what we have to do is keep working together to avoid them, as we're doing every day the self-government and the different local administrations. [[Applause]] That's why we're going to increase our lines of collaboration with the municipalities, so we're going to increase the agreed Plan, so we're going to continue to increase our home aid times. Look, Mrs. Gallego, tell me that maybe there are more hours but fewer hours for each one. Look, there's more hours and more hours for each one because we've really just increased a million clean hours in home help -- a million hours. And, look, with regard to the issue of librarianism, it is one of the resources provided for in the Law of Dependency; it will not tell me that it was adopted by a socialist government. And one of the payout formulas is books. Look, what I'm telling you is that Galicia, fortunately, is under the concession of libraries that Andalusia, far below, and far above in specialized public services. So, we continue to grant bail, we continue to give home help, and we continue to grant larger squares and care for disability to reach the target I told him: 50,000 people attended. And another thing, Mrs. Adán, with regard to the subject of indicators, I want to tell you that this agenda presents the creation of the Galician Social Observatory, where, with the participation of the municipalities and with the participation of the entities working with poverty, we will evaluate each of the policies, because unfortunately at the moment – you have to say – there is no stable forum for the follow-up of these actions, and that is why we will create this Galician Social Observatory to have exclusive data on social inclusion. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u147	Thank you, Counsellor for Social Policy. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Union of Galicia in linguistic matters
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u148	No amendments were tabled to this motion. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u149	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Today we present a motion in which we address a number of language-related proposals. We do so after this May 17th not only had thousands of people in the streets demanding a change in language policy, but also seeing how May 17th honored and remembered two milestones that are very important to us: first, this year's Letter Day celebration honoring Manuel María, the great national poet, a great defender of language, a nationalist activist who has always given the best of himself both in his work and in his praxia, with an active commitment to defend the language, but also this year commemorating the Brotherhood of Speech. And we have very clear from the BNG that the best tribute we can make to the English language is not love statements but that at this moment the only thing we ask of Parliament is that the law be complied with. We will not ask the People's Party to make progress, to promote an increase in actions or the modernization of linguistic legislation, no, no, we will only ask the People's Party to comply with laws, to comply with the Law of Linguistic Standardization and to comply with the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages; a letter which, having been ratified by the Spanish State, is part of the legal corpus which has the obligation to comply with and a letter which the Committee of Experts itself, the experts themselves who are analysing their compliance, and the Council of Europe itself certify that in the case of the Greek language is being breached. Therefore, in this motion we propose, in connection with that statement and with those principles, three points: the first, since the Committee of Experts itself points out that the Decree of Plurilingualism limits the teaching of Greek to a maximum of 50%, with the ultimate objective of ending by reducing to a third, and that this is a clear contradiction to the commitments made by the authorities within the framework of the European Charter, which demand a predominantly in Greek education, what we ask is, therefore, that a new decree be drawn up which actually complies with what the European Charter of Languages says and which, moreover, complies with what we have agreed to and agreed in this Parliament in the Plan for the Standardization of the Greek Language. A second point where we gather the proposals referring to the judicial field, so far as the processes can be developed in English at the request of the party, so that the necessary measures are taken to ensure that the parts of proceedings are specifically informed of the obligation that the judicial authorities in Galicia have to develop the procedures in Greek if a part so requests; that the necessary measures are taken to increase the proportion of judicial staff in Galicia at all levels, and particularly between judges and prosecutors, able to use Welsh as a working language in the courts; and also, regarding the media, to encourage or facilitate the creation and maintenance of at least one newspaper in Greek and to negotiate an agreement with the Portuguese Government to facilitate the reception of Portuguese Radio Television in Galicia. We here agree with the main recommendations made in this fourth report by this committee of experts and the Council of Europe itself to ask the People's Party not to oppose compliance with linguistic legality in this Parliament. But we also wanted to take advantage of this debate to at least leave some things clear. It's a shame the Education Councillor doesn't have a minute to devote him to one of the most important matters of his competences, as is all that refers to language policy. In any case, it's an absence that denotes the lack of interest the Galician Union has in this matter. He told us in the debate of the inquiry that we are all manipulating, as always, the report, that we read badly, that we do not understand or that we are unable to perceive what the Committee of Experts and the Council of Europe wanted to convey. I already, by taking some sources that I suppose you will vote, they won't say they're manipulated, in this case I took news from the Vigo Lighthouse when this report was published. He said: "The Council of Europe calls on the Council of Europe to further promote the use of Galician in classrooms." The Council of Europe considers in its fourth report on the use of minority languages that the limits laid down in the decree on multilingualism of the Union clearly contradict the commitments made by the Spanish authorities in the European Charter. The Council says: The report of the Council of Europe made up of 47 states shows its concern about the gradual reduction in the presence of Greek in the middle teaching and maintains that the regulation of the decree runs counter to the objective of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. This is the interpretation that makes a newspaper in our country. Moreover, by taking some kind of sources, I imagine the absentee counselor won't say it, but I suppose his representation in this Parliament, which will be the spokesperson of the People's Group. We also find it disturbing to bring here what the Royal Galaga Academy said, which I imagine is not manipulated either by nationalism or by the malicious opposition in this Parliament. So the Royal Galician Academy – they can go to their website and check if they're interested – also issued a communiqué when you know this report and these recommendations, and says, "Real Galician Academy. The Council of Europe has just expressed its concern about the negative effect of the gradual reduction of Galician education in Galicia; a warning that agrees with the Royal Academy's opposition to Decree 79/2010 of the Galician Union. The European body issued this week a new report on the application of the Charter of Regional Languages which identifies important problems in the case of Spain, among which it expressly points to the reduction of teaching in German as a consequence of the application of the previous decree; a rule which clearly runs counter to the commitments made by the authorities when signing the letter." I mean, everyone reads the same thing but the Galician Union, which once again wants to make us look like fools and fools, and tells us that what really everyone interprets of what is being said in this report is a distortion of reality. What's wrong is that we're faced with lies, lies, lies about the situation of the tongue, and all this to hide a shameful situation. And the shame is that we have a government that seems good to you that the German is in the worst position. We have the shame of having a government that, for the first time, since there is a Statute of autonomy, has legislated to reduce the presence of the Greek, and even prohibited that Greek can be used as a language of teaching in the field of mathematics and in the field of science. Prohibited by a People's Party decree! The shame is that we have a situation that even denounces the Galego Institute of Statistics itself, and that I think it's interesting that we can see it. These are the graphs that are... They don't look very good in their size, but I'm sure they're able to get on the Internet, on the website of the Galego Institute of Statistics, because they're the graphics that are hanging in the IGE, and these charts are about the people who usually speak in English, we're going from 5 to 14. This yellow line that goes up – I don't know if they see it – are the ones who always speak in Spanish. From 2003 to 2013, this line only ascends. The descending line, which is red and blue, are those people who always use the English or predominantly the Greek. As you'll see, they're in a worse position every time. The thing is, when we have this reality, the German Government says we don't worry, that the Greek is very good, that there's no kind of problem. They're satisfied with the results of this policy and they're not at least willing to rectify a single apex. It is as if the Council of Europe, the Royal Galaga Academy, the Council of Culture, 20,000 people on the street, because you have a very clear design, and it is that, in fact, they want to further reduce the presence of the Greek language, that is the design that you have clearly. And even when we bring to this Parliament complaints made by citizens of this country, who have to wait another month to be able to sign a Portuguese mortgage, who delay the Sergas operation by asking that the documentation given to Sergas be in Greek. When most of the documentation we sign in our country in private companies, it's called Abanca, it's called Fenosa, it's called whatever you like, we're not allowed to be in Greek, and, above all, they say that we want to impose the Greek language. That's the great lie, and I also think it's the great shame, of a government that has become a renegade of the most important we have the Greeks and the Greeks, which is our language. Today, in this year that we commemorate the centenary of the Brotherhood of Speech, the best tribute that can be done to those Brotherhoods is to end with the swan that you wanted to sow against the Greek. They still have a chance to do this. Don't waste it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u151	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. I'm going to read an introductory text of the Language Standardization Act. "Language is the greatest and most original collective creation of the Greeks and the Greeks; the spiritual force that gives inner unity to our community. Join us with the past because we receive it from our greatest living heritage, and our children will receive it as a legacy of common identity. It's also an essential link between the Greeks and the fluffed Greeks on the native land and the Welsh emigrated around the world." It is the text which brings together the introduction of the Law on Linguistic Standardization, adopted by this Parliament, where we are now, in June 1983. This law recognizes the Welsh language as its own and official, and contemplates the right to know and use it. Don't contemplate the obligation, as if it were recognized in other laws with the Spanish. In my opinion, those muds come in these muds. Even though this law, in its article 13, states that children and girls have the right to receive the first education in their mother tongue, at this point, I have to say that the People's Party does not comply with this law, it is not fulfilling it. The normalization of a language means the recovery of your normal language status, of your normal language, of your vehicle language, in all everyday situations of your life. A language is normalized when its oral and written use is given naturally and spontaneously in any of the situations that may occur in public life and in the personal life of the speakers. He said the other day, Mr. Counsellor, that the Greeks and the Greeks decide in absolute freedom to speak in Greek, and without any problems, in the street, and without any problems anywhere. That's what it shows and evidence is a total and absolute ignorance that the rights of the phlegmists are violated one day and another day as well. In the daily life of any gossiper becomes, at least, a situation in which that supposed linguistic freedom does not exist, and the right of that gossiper to use his own language is violated. For example – Mrs. Pontón said – when you ask for a scholarship – I have the recent experience, the other day – that would work if you addressed the user in the Greek language, but the print is not in the Greek language. Like talking to the phone company, writing a complaint, managing a mortgage, etc. If not, the case of the girl forced to speak in Spanish in a certain activity of the hippie, without the Board's taking any action at all. Situations that show that what is actually done is that the normal language, the normal language, the language of the vehicle, is Spanish, and that the demand for the Greek is an exception, an exceptionality or a rareness – according to you, at best – of someone of the opposition who wants to make politics in the exercise of his right to speak in his own language. One thing if I agree with Mr. Counselor, in which the Greek is all and all. We all share the pride of having one's own language, as can be seen in the last demonstration on May 17. By the way, that pride remains alive thanks to the militant commitment – because they force us to be politically positioned on this issue, when it should not be so – of citizenship itself, despite the hostile attitude towards the language of the PP Government, whose decree of plurilingualism has already been delegated by the Council in the European Charter of Minority Languages and by other institutions, despite your attempt to make the data one day and another. It's not true that Galicia is experiencing a situation of harmonic bilingualism. It's not true, it's not true, because the use of one of the two languages is not guaranteed on multiple occasions, as I said. That's why the measures that contemplate the motion are essential to rescue our language from the maturation to which you have been subjected the situation of diglossy to which you have led the Greek language. The Joint Group is clear that it will support this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u152	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u153	Good afternoon, everyone. The Left Galician Alternative will support this initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block because, logically, we have spent four years in this legislation constantly defending the Greek language, and logically attacking the linguistic policy that takes place in Galician Union. A linguistic policy that obeys a very clear, calculated and defined strategy: it is determined through these scientific falsifications such as harmonic bilingualism. We know perfectly well that there is no such balance position that you constantly defend, and what exists is the triumph of the colonization of the Spanish language over the Galician in all respects. Not only in the uses of life in society, but also from the internal linguistic point of view, where the Greek is becoming more and more eroded by the Spanish language. I mean, a double colonization. With the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages – we have commented – the Galician Union itself played a game: now if I'm interested, now I'm not interested; now I support what the report says, not now. So it happened in the two appearances that you did in the commission, where at first it was not so alarming, the data was not to be taken into account, and in Mr. Valentine's last appearance because it was indeed necessary to take it into account. And you were playing a bad game, because it was clearly demonstrated that the report sent by the state to experts was a report based on unknown, manipulated, literally fake information about what actually happens with space and uses, media, etc., where it's not really possible, really, sometimes, to use the Greek language. And you even used to give yourself merits that civil society is carrying out, organizing, for example, on digital platforms. You yourself were given these merits, when you do what you do is look to the other side when a particular media has problems. It happened here, for example, with Galicia Today or other newspapers in Galicia, other means, which were forced to be relegated to a digital gallery. But you even play a rhetorical game with words to camouflage your disastrous language politics. And there's also other mistakes, like you say there's a high knowledge of the English language. Of course you do! We also know the bones of Homo afarensis, but that's not use, there's no space for use. So knowing maybe we know an object that's in a museum. It's sweet, sense, it's there, we keep it, but we don't use it. What we say is that we have to use the English language, and that we have to be able to use it in the same conditions and with the equal table of opportunities that those who use the Spanish language, and that doesn't happen. And much less what are the structures that you sometimes call seduction, which are the leisure structures. You look to see if it's in leisure, for a young gale or gale who wants to use galego, it's easy, perhaps, in movies that aren't folded, they're not subtitled, etc. And you still haven't responded to why you can't watch a film subtitled in English on those pay platforms, where you see Catalan and Basque, English and all languages, but English seems to be non-existent. The European Charter was clear. In the field of language, in the field of teaching, in the field of justice, in the field of public administration and public services, in the field of media, etc., there is a strong warning: that this cannot be followed, because what we do is to lose, precisely, what we need, that is more people who use the Greek language constantly; that is, monolinguals in the Greek language. And, in fact, it's something you don't want, logically, because you have your own strategy, which is that of harmonic bilingualism – we say – by means of a decree that is flammable and that causes the language to lose, precisely, relevance and importance in classes. For you cling to a fallacy permanently, and so on, and we can't defend in any context that the fallacy is that it causes the language to lose, and lose ever more, monolinguals in the Greek language. And that's why it's necessary for educational institutions to also favor contexts where language immersion in English is relevant, and this is a recommendation from the European Charter, which is something extreme for you. But maybe it's a way to save the future of speakers in the English language, of monolingual speakers in the English language, and not that they know the English language but never use it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counselor. Well, we, of course, the Socialist Group, are going to support the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block, because we share with Mrs Pontón the concern expressed in her explanation and in this motion for the situation of the Greek language, and because we also express this concern at many times, in many situations in this Parliament, and also in relation to the opinions of the experts of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages that we have brought to this House, with little result, by course, because it seems that the Government and the People's Party Parliamentary Group do not want to understand that it is necessary to take the measures which an international body recommends in this case. The situation is very worrying, you know, we know it, citizenship knows it, and experts from the European Charter of Regional Languages Report know it. The government also knows, if you're not worried, if you don't express that concern, it's because of that defensive attitude that you're closed, which you've been taking since 2009, when you realized that your language policy, and your search for votes through the language, and your search for confrontation through the language didn't work. It didn't work out later looking for those niches of votes, nor did it result, of course, with language, which is the only thing you're doing lately is going to a worse and worse situation and not to improve. You know, but you won't recognize it, even though the situation is so worrisome, it's so obvious, that if for a moment you were able to see the situation objectively and think, for example, in another country, you would have a country where it turns out that the most important institution to defend and to encode your own language has to manifest itself one day yes and another, you have to make statements in a continuous way to defend your language – in this case the Galician – in order to encourage the Government in its defence, as it is doing one day yes and another also the Royal Galeg Academy. If you think of a country where the most important cultural institution, which has as its statutory task the defence of the culture of the people – in this case the Greek, and in this case the Council of Culture – has to manifest itself one day and the other also the need to take special measures, special impulse measures to overcome the disadvantage situation of the Greek against the Spanish, you yourself would say something serious is going on. If you came to another country, and you were objective, if you saw yourself as a real language academy, like the Royal Galaga Academy, it turns out that it takes the courts, not one time, but several times, a decree – the most important decree given by a Government – for language teaching, as is the decree of plurilingualism, you would say something very serious happens. Because you can't legislate against everyone, and about the decree of multilingualism you know, Counsellor – you know too – that is against everyone: the Council of Culture, the Royal Academy, the political parties, the unions, the Confapa, the universities, the Advisory Council... it's that no one is missing, it's the whole world. It's a cry now, that decree has to be changed. And now the European Council comes to say what we knew, but it comes to say it, to see if it has more relevance, and it's having a very negative effect on the Greek language in teaching. It's not the only area in which the Greek language has to be, but it's paramount; but the problem is that it's not used properly in justice – only 5% of the judgments in English –, neither in administration, nor in health care. And I do not say what the Socialist Party says, the European experts on the European Charter of Regional Languages. I'd like the PP and the Government to make that claim too. We have to re-claim this year 2016 the spirit, the teachings and the demands of the Brotherhood of Speech in the centenary of its foundation; when they affirmed that the necessity of Greek was that it was present in all fields, in all contexts, that it was spoken in all areas of life, that it had to be a living language, an intellectualized language. A language that has to serve not only for teaching and home, which has to serve absolutely for everything. And right now – and I say the European Charter and not us – is not serving either in teaching, in justice, in administration, in health, in the media, in terms of all of them, in areas of prestige. So it is necessary to change this policy and therefore we also support, of course, the operative part of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. The truth is that by taking advantage of the Galagas Letters, taking advantage of the request for consensus and the linguistic pact that many people have made for this purpose, one could expect that the Nationalist Galego Block today would bring an initiative aimed at this, an initiative of covenant and consensus. But, far away from that, we saw that of nothing new under the sun. Once again we have proposed the initiative from the point of view of confrontation, from the point of view of catastrophe, and this time we have also adopted a criterion of victimism – as the counsellor rightly pointed out in the subsequent interpellation – which, of course, is also in contradiction with the mandates of the Law of Linguistic Standardization that you claim to defend. Bring Mrs Pontón here as a guide to the European Charter of Languages. And look, Mrs. Pontón, I'm not talking about manipulation, or interpretation, or anything, but it's true that you bring this subject in a biased way, in an interested way, by making it manifest only the negative aspects, only those aspects where the Charter speaks which should be improved; but by hiding and obvious that this document is a much more coherent document, it's a positive document that sets out many progress made on the linguistic theme. In particular, in relation to the German Government, such issues as the advance of the use of language in private media, in public services or also in training. We cannot negatively evaluate that criterion. In no case, Mr. Ron, the Linguistic Policy Secretary said that you should not listen to him and after he had to. The only thing he always said was that he was not indeed an alarmist report, and that the German Government was willing to comply with the requirements of that letter, as we have always said and have always done. But it can hardly be an alarmist report when, as a summary of all the proceedings, the Council of Ministers concludes by congratulating the Spanish Government on the progress made on the language issue in relation to the data of the last report. I could use the Galician Nationalist Block to use this minority charter approach to bring an initiative from the Charter of minority languages to put forward a consensus initiative, but of course you are not interested in consensus. It is no coincidence that precisely the initiative is linked to teaching, justice and communication, just to those where the coexistence of languages is most tense for obvious reasons. But it's clear that you have the purpose that you have, in fact, is not that of the covenant, in fact here they haven't spoken for any consensus, they haven't spoken for any pacts. And the only thing that gives the impression is that they bring this topic the collation as an element of union in these dates that we are living in, as a element of union to lift the ally spirit of their people and also as a flag of confrontation with the People's Party. Obviously, we cannot accept the initiative, because it has already been, in fact, the specific points which are reflected in it often debated. With regard to the decree of plurilingualism, Mrs Pontón, the courts have repeatedly declared that the decree fully conforms to legality. Eight judgments of the High Court of Justice and one of the Constitutional Court clearly confirm this criterion. Mrs. Burgo, you say it's a problem that important institutions have to resort to justice, and it's a really rewarding fact that justice repeatedly confirms the validity of that decree. It also decrees that it is fully ratified by Galician social majority. As for justice, what you're suggesting, the use of the English language is a part of the courts, it's already recognized by the Organic Law of the Judiciary. By the way, Mrs. Burgo, remember that the judges can use her request on the part, whenever there is no allegation of defence on the other side, which did the lawyer of the Secretary General of the Socialist Party when they notified her of the court resolution in Greek. As far as the media are concerned, Mrs Pontón, we would, of course, all of us would like it to be done, but there are many problems in publishing a newspaper in English given the current circumstances of the media. And if you think that through the grant you can maintain a means, I think that's a safe path to failure. And as for the reciprocity of Portuguese television, it was already raised in the Lusophony Law. You know that radio space is state-owned, and in fact it was necessary to modify the initial requirements of that Lusophony Law precisely to introduce criteria for collaboration in reciprocity. And probably the Portuguese Government wouldn't accept this reciprocity of free broadcasting from the Spanish or Welsh television. But ultimately, we cannot accept this initiative either, because – as Mr Ron said – of course we are starting from different criteria. You want to do what you want to do, overlooking Galician social reality, is to build tiles below the legal building of the Greek language. Surely because they do not have the majority of society in Galicia they intend to be the public authorities who establish that imposition, that path towards the preeminence of Greek, and the path to monolinguism, which was lying to Mr. Ron, when he clearly says that in order to combat the diglossy, monolinguistic individuals must be made in Greek, and we have a completely different criterion. Of course, the public authorities must have a role to play...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u159	...but always from the hands of the social majority, because one cannot articulate a language against the criteria of the people who speak it. As Trapero Pardo said, the talk is about who speaks it. And in that sense, we maintain a different linguistic policy criterion than theirs, based, indeed, on Galician bilingual reality, based on the co-operation and peaceful coexistence of languages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u160	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u161	...based on the criterion that freedom of use sells much better than taxation. And since they speak of the Brotherhood of Speech, take note, Mrs. Pontón, of the criterion of brotherhoods, of their collective criterion, that starting from different ideological positions are able to work collectively for the sake of a speech that benefits everyone...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u162	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u163	...and without ideological positions, partisans and confrontational. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u164	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Motion author group. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Firstly, I would like to thank both the Joint Group and the AGE Group and the Socialist Group for their support for this initiative. And I want to regret that the People's Party turns language debates into a ritual, a ritual of insults, disqualifications and lies. Because that's what seems to me to be the most serious thing: to deny reality and come here saying that what we propose is illegal, without giving a single argument. Why is it illegal for the Plurilingual Decree to be repealed? It's not illegal, it's a political decision, it's being asked by the Greek society and it's being asked from the Council of Europe, and you deny it, you deny it. Why? Because they have a very clear plan: they want a good-looking Greek in the field of teaching, which is why you're working on it. Because any normal government, any responsible government, any government that wants to comply with the laws, that tells you that it has to guarantee equal knowledge, the first thing you would do is worry about, when the only data on the assessment of linguistic competition says there are many people who are Spanish speaking and who have no linguistic competence in English. And a director of an administration concerned about the Greek language would evaluate the decree, as he certainly said one of his articles. And you don't want to evaluate linguistic competition, because you know it's a real disaster, but they come here -- as I said -- with a ritual of lies, even some of them -- I mean, some of them,..., yes, they don't argue, because... they don't argue, yes, yes, and I'm going to tell them, too, a ritual of lies. [[Murmurs.]] You have sent information to the European Union that is false, and if not, I stand here, Counselor, that we visit the notaries and check with me if it's possible to write in English at the same time as in Spanish, it's a lie. Because the experiences of those we do show -- individually, ask here -- at least two-three weeks difference. [[Murmurs.]] So that's the reality. It's a lie. Or, come on, things of a level that I would be ashamed of, of course, to be part of a government that sends a report – and you will tell me –: "I can point out that in Galicia there are currently many products of the land labelled only in Galicia – wine, honey, etc.–. Most industrial products are labelled exclusively in Spanish." And it's all right for you, there's no problem. Bank. Din, see: "As far as the notarial records of mortgages are concerned, notaries and records have an obligation to carry out their procedures and registrations in Galicia, without increasing the cost of the procedure or dilating the time for the execution of administrative acts". You lied, and you know it. Or – I have told you – that what is absolutely indecent is that when an association is born to denounce the marginalization of the media in English, because it is a deliberate policy that you have made, come and tell us that this is a step forward, because there is an association in defense of Greek in the media and that, therefore, the Greek is very well, when you know that the position of the Greek has decreased both in the audiovisual and in the written press, and that during the stage of the Government of Feijóo they have closed the only daily heads that used the Greek language. And that's a political decision, because all the media are subsidized, and many, by the way, get a lot of public money to advance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u167	...the normalization, and it's been frozen years or backward. So this is not a problem of legality, it's a problem of what is the decision that Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government has taken on the language. And I mean, it's a political decision, it's silly, because it's foolish to stand against Greek.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The following motion is from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the supply of industrial soil and the putting into operation of the logistics and industrial platform of Salvaterra-As Neves, PLISAN. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the supply of industrial soil and the functioning of the Logistics and Industrial Platform of Salvaterra-As Neves, PLSAN
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u169	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Losada has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u170	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, two weeks ago we had an interview with Mrs Ethel Vázquez on the industrial floor and the problem that means as a production factor in the industrial fabric of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and how this is demonstrated in a paradigmatic manner in the case of the logistics platform of Salvaterra-As Neves, which is therefore the best example of Mr Feijó's government's inability to develop what would be a very relevant economic policy tool. The truth is, in the opinion of the Socialist Group and in the opinion of this spokesman, the answer was absolutely disappointing. There were no commitments of any kind, there were no dates of what we asked him, which was essentially when he would be the logistics platform in terms of receiving the installation of factories or commercial distribution centers. That, yes, they brought us a photograph – it seems quite recent – of the state of the works and, of course, as it corresponds adequately to the Government of Mr Feijóo, for he gave us a broad narrative of the three and a half years of government of Mr. Touriño. Undoubtedly, all the problems of these three million square meters semi-explained between Salvaterra and Les Neves, with a lake of 17 meters deep – and it is true that with small works on the edges, that at this rate, of course, will not be in 2017, as the advisor said – for undoubtedly a work started in 2000 and that, of course, physical activity itself occurred precisely in line with the Government of Mr. Touriño, all the rest were problems. The truth is, basically, it's good to see the history of PLISAN. I hope that the spokesperson or spokesperson of the People's Party who responded to this motion, well, because I hope to be more fortunate, I hope you answer something that I asked, and above all, I hope you can, by making the Government's spokesperson, commit to that productive fabric of the district of the metropolitan area of Vigo, which desperately needs industrial land, and which you see, besides – I insist – from 187 months ago – that was the moment when Mr Fraga Iribarne announced the construction of a dry port between the municipalities of Salvaterra and the Snows – that there is a suitable space for establishing factories or productive centres or commercial distribution centers. Because until now – I insist – there is this explanation, which is exactly what was in February of 2009. I mean, we've been in exactly seven years in which, in theory, we've spent 48 million euros on expropriations – it's true that the owners and the different associations of affected continue to say that it's been missing to pay those expropriations – if you spent 20 million euros on land movements in that exploration process – which was practically in the years 2007 and 2008 – if you spent 22 million euros on the AG-51 bus; the truth is that this is the first time, this is a country, the truth that the right, in terms of work planning, would surprise us every day; we have the outer port of Ferrol, we have the outer port of the Coruña, which do not literally have access, are practically finished and do not literally have access. Here, that there is no logistics platform or dry port, except that 17 meters deep seal, there is a nickel road that literally ends in a gesture – I say in a gesture because I also bothered to go sailing –, unpopular, perfectly suitable, painted and signaled; a sort of surrealist question, that if you go through A-52 – I don't know how many of the MPs and deputies of the People's Party use that bus; I, like a werensman transterraned to Vigo, often use it –, you leave the bus, exactly in Puzo-Lira-Ponteareas, and you find a exceptionally signaled roundabout that puts AG-51 PLISAN on. I invite you – I regret that you are not the advisor – so that on one of these early-morning travels to take photos as well as see the signage installation – I insist – PLSAN, you do the three and a half kilometers of rigour and you find yourself literally a row of gestures – you close exactly in a gesture – high, high, high, because you have finished the highway two and a half years, and in this country, fortunately, with the rate of rainfall and hours of sunshine, because vegetation, without being the Panamanian equatorial jungle, because it has certain exuberance; therefore, high. Well,... [[Mrs. Oubina Solla speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yes, I always liked poetry, Mrs. Oubina, it's one thing, I think it's positive, right? Then there are 7.7 million euros of miners rights, which, if they paid – the companies, well, at least don't complain – I understand they paid. There are EUR 3.5 million in compensation for the owners of that special forest protection area, which literally expropriated itself as if it were an area likely to be used for the dry port, for the logistics platform, and there are these – I say – EUR 14.7 million for urbanization, of which the councillor spoke. I repeat again: I, by taking a short walk through the press notes, both from the Galician Council and the Ministry, found amounts for that process, and of course, if it wasn't for that process, I explicitly asked the advisor to tell me what each of these amounts referred to, which ranged from 44 million euros to 13.5 million euros. We have all the quantitative leverage between those two amounts. It is true that the Counsellor told us all the evil that Mr. Tourin's government had done, but she was unable to explain the press notes which produce her own advice, which, of course, this Member is surprised. And, unfortunately, this facility is the metaphor of what's being the industrial floor of the Autonomous Community of Galicia: there's an offer of industrial floor where there's a very low demand and there's no offer of industrial floor where demand is very high. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo has been transformed into a real estate agency, with absolutely prohibitive prices. The Counsellor, also – well, in that advance of the usual scientific knowledge – said that she did not want the Portuguese model – understanding that she was referring to low wages. Home!, it would be very good that they had then put down the labor reform, which was the fundamental element that is pulling down the wages. Or they could also do something else... yes, yes, they could do something else: increase public funding in R & D+i, which in Portugal is 1.5% of GDP and Galicia is 0.87. [[Murmurs.]] By the way, I was always talking here about Ukraine and Turkey; we have to withdraw it now, because it is, in the last OECD data, 1.01% and therefore we are left alone with Ukraine; we follow that 0.87%. Yes, Mr. Feijóo scrupulously meets the deficit indicated by the Central Government. Not only does he do it, but he stays below the permitted limit. Total, what is 80 million euros in a country – let us say – so exuberant in terms of public health, education, dependency, etc., what is the Autonomous Community of Galicia? I regret that both the advisers of this government and the spokesmen of the People's Party are unable never to explain anything of this. They tell us about Venezuela, they tell us about Andalusia, they tell us about the Bipartite, at last they tell us about almost everything, less of what they have to talk about, which is the Government explaining what the master lines of their political performance are, what the goals they are, what they are trying to achieve, and what the tools they are going to use to achieve those goals, and the spokespersons of the People's Group, at least what usually corresponds to this humble deputy, usually because he gives magisterial classes of philosophy, which I recognize are unable to follow by my intellectual inability – I am sure that this is the reason – Lack of industrial soil is a key element in short-circuiting the industrial development of this autonomous community. And the data, unfortunately, are there. There's the number of jobs lost, there are, that this data that the counselor, I don't know if he was the advisor here or in the commission, the director general of the Igape daba, let's go, like some levels of industrial occupation close to full employment, because we're at the level of the year 2013; that is, we're still losing 40,000 jobs in relation to what was in the year 2009, that bad year, the origin of all the evils – I insist: 40,000 jobs less. Also one day Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u171	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u172	...–I have finished, Mr President – the Counsellor – excuse me, Madam President – the advisor said that the statistic for entry of industrial applications was the best approximation to the evolution of industry in all autonomous communities. I told him not to be careful; first, that it was very cyclical, at last, a series of killings, but well, that month was good, the last one was a little worse, the last one in Spain is down by 5.4%, and it goes down, above all, because the international context is bad. I would very much like someone from the People's Party to speak here about the international economy, but beyond Venezuela, which is a country with which we have close business relations within an order, but it is not, however, the fundamental element of this autonomous community. And in Galicia the fall is 25% more pronounced. Sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u173	I should be finishing up, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u174	–Finished, Madam President –...the counselor did not tell us –or did not tell us – about any of this and what she did was a general assessment of the bipartisan government. I hope that the spokesperson or spokesperson of the People's Party will cooperate in this Member's intellectual advancement. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u175	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u176	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, don't worry. When Obama gives permission to get along with Venezuela, as happened with Cuba, things will change. Here they need some master to tell them who they can deal with and who they can't. So they're waiting for the master to speak instead of analyzing the situation. Well, although the state and board have systematically denied the paralysing of the Logistics and Industrial Platform Salvaterra-The Snows, called the Dry Port of Vigo or PLSAN, the project, three million square meters, has been paralysed since 2009. That's why this motion has come to an end, because the administration's incompetence cannot continue to paralyze the development of an essential industrial park to revitalize the economy across the South of Pontevedra. Nevertheless, we call for a point-by-point vote. Points 1, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4, on the one hand, and points 2 and 3.3, on the other. And now I'll explain this request. We will vote in favour of point 1, to develop a plan for the dynamisation and promotion of the Greek business parks to find out about their situation. We will also support the claim under point 3.1 to close the dates on which the industrial floor of PLISAN will indeed be available to companies. The same as point 3.2, to set a definitive completion date for the construction of ETAP and EDAR. In January of this same year, the state delegate in the Free Zone of Vigo announced that the Galician Union will bid on the projects and works of the sewage debugger, and now positivizing, in this first quarter of 2016. But in the previous full month of May, in its intervention in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion, the councillor confirmed that neither the Harbour Authority has sued the drafting of the preliminary draft, nor the Board has requested the direction of the work to build EDAR and ETAP, which will serve the PLSAN, leaving as the only undertaking that the Board will deal with this bid throughout this year. I mean, from the first quarter we're already going to the month of December, with time left. It is therefore essential to stop dwindling the deadlines, which are precipitated in an electoral period and which are delayed between electoral processes. And, of course, we will vote in favour of point 3.4 so that, before the end of 2016, all pending payments are made for the expropriations of PLISAN in the municipalities of Salvaterra and The Neves. But if the PSOE accepts the point vote, we abstain from points 2 and 3.3 that propose to establish lines of aid for the purchase of the industrial floor and a financial incentive plan for the installation of companies in PLISAN to enable us to systematize public aid and to compete via prices with Portuguese parks. We understand that there is a lack of commitment on the part of companies that install themselves, receive help, the job that will be created and the stability and quality of the job that will be created. In December, the Consorcio Zona Franca and the Cunta de Galicia and the Harbour Authority of Vigo signed an agreement to offer 100,000 square meters of initial available soil. Interested companies may choose between buying the plots or accepting the surface right formula. In the case of purchase, the 100,000 square meters will be sold at a bonus price of 50 euros/square meter. And, in the case of accepting the surface right formula, they must blow up an annual symbolic canon with a purchase option. So we understand that it's not so much about price as about services. It's not so much that we have to compete via price reductions, as we should compete through quality of services: Internet access, communication channels... Mr. Losada spoke of that highway that ends in a series of gestures. I ask what happens with the railway link, promised; what happens with the metropolitan public transport that arrives at PLSAN for the transfer of workers and workers. It is necessary to offer a daycare service to park workers and workers and an emergency service to all the park companies. I mean, basically, what's missing is services. The Galaga Federation of Industrial Parks, which comprises twenty-four associations of entrepreneurs installed on industrial floor, to facilitate the installation of companies and their development, is shown to be critical of the public policies of promotion of industrial floor and development of Galicia. They argue that you can't see an industrial park as a real estate operation, but as a process of dynamizing productive sectors and attracting investments. Xestur promotes many business parks – says the Galician Federation – and lowers the price of the plots, but money is not the only factor that influences a company in deciding whether or not to install it in a business park. They're doing, according to the Galaga Federation of Industrial Parks, an industrial ground sub-promotion. We need to be concerned about the park and the management of the park, developing cross-cutting, cross-sectoral public policies in the business parks. As for competition with Portugal, the Galega Federation of Industrial Parks considers it essential – ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have just spoken of this – the integration of Greek as a socio-economic language. The companies installed in the business parks are telling the Board that the socio-economic use of Welsh is essential, and the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u177	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u178	...it doesn't matter to them either. That's not exactly the Greek employer, the great defender of the use and use of the Greek language. Let's see if they make them reflect and hear that the Greek, in addition, serves to make the economy, serves to improve the Greek economy. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u179	For the Gaga de Left Alternative Group, Mr. Fajardo Recouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u180	Good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is to come here today to talk about PLSAN is something like coming to talk about the mother or father of all the urban plans of this country or industrial planning. In Pontevedra, in our province, in the whole of Galicia, we already have our airport in Castellón. Something that often does the People's Party very commonly. Infrastructures that are supposed to be useful for one thing, but that after time for the only one they served is to waste tens – in this case tens of millions – of euros, simply so that their goal that there are companies that can provide jobs, because there are no jobs. I recovered today and yesterday, preparing this intervention, Mr. Fraga's announcements about this park. Of course, I had to get them back over the Internet because then I was just a little twenty-year-old, not worried about parliamentary life. And it turns out that at that time Mr. Fraga and the People's Party announced that this was going to get them to stand on the table 10,000 jobs. Days later, we don't even even have the first job, but if we had, as a result of the delay in its infrastructure, as a company, for example, had to close its doors because throughout the year we've been living with an creditors contest where its only escape route was the commitment to build this industrial park. Hence, decisions like these not only cost the public era tens of millions of euros, but also cost tens of jobs that existed and that were undermined by the ineffectiveness and inefficiency of the governments of this country, little concerned about doing things right. I always compared my county to Springfield, because my county, Arousa's Vilagaría, has two unique things all over the world. It has a buried park that has a plant above sea level and has a sea walk where the sea is not seen in the middle of the walk. This is a unique and distinguishing element for our council, but Galicia also has differentiating elements: a City of Culture with absolutely no culture, which is a dark of millions of euros; external ports with no access; and today it was demonstrated – as I had in the papers and as well as the spokesman of the Socialist Party – an industrial park with access but no industry and no industrial park. So, in this chamber of horrors, urban shortcomings and the wrong urban projects, I think this must occupy a preferential element in the history of the country, especially so that these things do not happen again. Because, of course, what can't exist is a country without planning and management about industrial parks. We all know a lot of municipalities that have obsolete, abandoned industrial parks without occupation, and we also know a lot of municipalities that need industrial land to develop very important industrial projects. So here, at some point, we'll have to plan how and where our industrial floor is distributed so we can accommodate all those companies that would need that floor, but especially in conditions worthy of both access and equipment. I last week visited Ponticeso and, for example, there is an industrial polygon that does not have the minimum requirements when accessing, for example, the wireless network or a lot of services, which make this infrastructure unusable for many companies. So we are absolutely in agreement with the first part of the exhibition and the point of the Socialist Party's motion, which speaks of a Greek plan for the dynamization and promotion of business parks. And when we talk about the fact that we must, as soon as possible, finish PLISAN's situation, the first thing we've asked him about is how it's possible that from 2000 until today nothing had been done. How can that situation be, that hundreds of millions have been wasted in that situation, and that there is no political leader? Because in a normal country, I believe that an infrastructure that is announced in the year 2000 and that in 2016 it has nothing done, and it doesn't even have a single company installed, it will have to have some political responsibility. And at least the political leaders of that aberration should be reporting not only – certainly also – on the waste of public money, but also on the responsibility of their incapacity. But in this country it doesn't happen that way; you can do aberrations like the outer ports without access or like this and there's no responsible. That's why I think these things have to know about Greek citizenship. It's not true that there were no economic resources in this country to do things. It is that in this country, economic resources have been wasted for aberrations that, in many cases, have served very little; in any case, yes to show that we need change in course, changes in governments and governments that take the country's future seriously and that at least plan what our industrial policy is. Our group announces that it will bring to this House a concrete proposal for industrial policy, which has to do with the demands being made – not only in Europe, but also in the state itself – about the needs to implement some kind of industry that does not exist; and we could, of course, be a fundamental axis for the access of such industries to Europe as a whole and, above all, to the south of Europe, which do not have any. But, of course, what is not possible is that a government that has been ruling since there exists this little democracy in the country is able to maintain situations like that of PLSAN that are absolutely unacceptable and that should of course pay politically. And someone should explain to those workers who were convinced by members of this government that they were not worried about, that their company would save themselves because they were going to build PLSAN, already more than ten years ago – who are on the street today or, in many cases, long-term unemployed by decisions like these – what is the responsibility of politicians and what they are going to do to compensate for the damage these workers had. And also the damage suffered by those who were expropriated and not paid by the object of doing this infrastructure. As I've spent my time, but I think he was not only a good fishing spokesman, but probably a better president of the House than he usually does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u181	Yes, but don't abuse trust.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u182	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u183	Mrs. Adam Villamarín, by the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u184	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. So did I, compiling data on PLSAN, I found that two years ago I described PLSAN as "Except X." And I have to explain why I speak in those terms. I've been very fan of Expedient X and you'll remember it was "the truth is out there." Well, that's the way it is. That is to say, we get to this House, we can pick up the logbooks, the times we discuss PLISAN, the times we ask the Government, but the reality is that it's out there, which is: we take the car – now that we're also getting used to the joint excursions at the end of this legislation – and we go to PLISAN and we check that you actually get to the roundabout... I've already seen it without roundabout, with roundabout, with gestures, with towels... in fact, I bring here the photos that I'm not going to take because they're from different phases of PLISAN. Sixteen years. We heard the counselor say, "The origin of all evils." Obviously, the Bipartite, four years old, we're going to talk about four years, not three and a half years. It's 16 years old, if we take four years away, I don't know... I think there's 12 left, and of course, it triples the time that one government over another is on the subject. It's actually a subject that at least makes me feel much bigger. I remember the first time I visited PLSAN, which would be in May 2005, around there, so it's been a long time, and it's about the next thing. To remember a little, November 2009. At that time, Counselor Agustín Hernández says exactly: We are working with two other PLISAN promoters to achieve the best solution for those affected. We hope to have a solution in the next few weeks. Year 2009. From then on, from 2009, until 2013, it was basically a nonstop from government news on this subject. In fact, in 2011 it was that famous moment of Mitsubishi, when the board casts the lands of PLISAN. The truth is, we could qualify it as a paranormal experience, because if we shielded some land in which there was nothing yet, it was like a lunar land. I have it here; that's what you have to save the folders. Well, at that point, when Mitsubishi decides that the Moon planet was not the right location, we bring an initiative to this parliament that is unanimously approved. I want to remind you, because it's there for 2011 when "the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to order the concessionary companies of the urbanization works of the part corresponding to the Autonomic Administration and the works related to the provision of general services for the whole of PLISAN, with the aim of regaining the proper pace and being able to make available to the industrial and logistics industry in the shortest time." We approve this unanimously, proof that we can approve anything. In fact, this must be transferred to the Government. I guess. I'm absolutely sure the House services transferred him, and the government said, one more transfer! More or less, because we're talking about 2011. Change of government, 2012, and we also started with PLSAN. So, new statements from the new leaders and the new leaders, including the president of the Free Zone. Port, Free Zone and Together immediately negotiate the whole topic. The reality – I will not continue reading news – is 2016, the situation in which we are. Ten years later, ads, press releases, press abstracts, non-law proposals... I took one, I'm sure there are a lot more that have been approved in this House, and reality is: industrial planning, zero. PLISAN's still waiting. In fact, it is planted by the Free Zone that there is a need for special parking areas for trucks that have to reach the port, and it is even said to expand Porriño having PLISAN I don't know how many miles, ten miles, the Porriño, or less. I mean, are you going to expand for the trailers that need to get to the Porriño when PLSAN was a logistics platform? I believe that far beyond the record of X, paranormal phenomena of planning that has been done in Galicia on the industrial floor for decades. This is no less than a consequence of this non-planning period of Fraga. Actually, if we're looking, there's the origin, four years before 2005. We were informed at the previous session that there were many machines working, and I must confess that in these last fifteen full days we had not – I at least – material time to be able to inspect the works, as would be said. But the truth is, with 16 years of delay, not knowing exactly what is the reach and needs of PLSAN right now, not knowing anything about the train and also the transport of passengers that would be necessary. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, it remains in the Journal of Sessions. Surely some living beings, I suppose human beings, in the future, when they look at the logbooks and do archaeology, one of the aspects they can put on the table is that they were discussing PLSAN. Let's hope it's a reality at that time and not be like now, a lunar landscape.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u185	For the Popular Group, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u186	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Your Honor, you said: railway access to the outside port of Ferrol. Just one brush: projects stopped with Mr. Zapatero, of the PSOE, and that Ana Pastor of the PP, is bidding now. And Ferrol's PSOE, against it. You agree first, because if you don't, this is impossible. Mr. Losada, with due respect and from the greatest consideration I have spoken to you, will allow me to tell you that you did not seem to have given too much attention to the reply the advisor gave to his inquiry in the past. And I don't know if I cooperate with this or not with your intellectual advancement. Excuse me, anyway, if I can't. [[Applause]] Look, this is how you paid little attention, which of the twelve questions you have raised, all of them have met the Government's response, and in spite of this, in the exercise of their freedom as a Member, as it could not be otherwise, you choose to insist on almost all of them again, as if they did not give him the information or as if they gave him little care, so as not to spoil the prejudices of your group on this matter. In her speech, the advisor said literally: PLSAN will be operational, and at the disposal of companies, next year 2017, giving this a clear and powerful answer to all the time-limit issues that were raised in her motion. Your Honor, you know perfectly well that the urbanization works of the first phase of the general systems are currently being carried out, which will be completed next year. And, of course, he knows that the technical work and studies are being carried out prior to the bidding of the construction works of the sewage and water potencing stations, to ensure these services to the companies that are established in PLISAN. But all the information I just transferred to him was provided by the advisor in the past full. If you, for whatever reason, didn't listen to her – which I know is not her custom – she could have warned and we would move her personally. In this way, he could probably dedicate his motion to trying to loyally cooperate with the Government of Galicia, in order to put in place this logistics platform so necessary for the development of our business fabric. Mr. Losada, the three administrations involved in the development of PLISAN: Port Authority of Vigo, Free Zone of the port of Vigo and Instituto Galego da Vivenda e Solo, have already agreed that the first 100,000 square meters are sold at a bonus price of 50 euros per square metre, considering the normal selling price of PLISAN soil in 80 euros per square metre. But I'm sure you understand, perfectly, that today we also talk about the government baggage that you supported between 2005 and 2009. I know they don't like you or Mrs. Adam, of course, but you'll understand we should. You will see, Your Honor, in view of the estimated prices for the sale of PLSAN soil, the parks promoted at the Bipartite stage have a much higher cost. This is the case, for example, of the park of Veigaña, in the municipality of Mos, in the province of Pontevedra, where the price of the unfavourable plots reached up to 180 euro square metre. But there's more, Mr. Losada. The disastrous management of the corporate soil carried out by the two-party Government is repeated in parks such as Zionla, Santiago de Compostela, or Gandaras, in Lugo, which record the highest prices of all the parks powered by the Galician Union, and all of them were promoted, curiously, by the former government. Ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to this situation, the current Government of Galicia has worked tirelessly to resolve the obstacles that PLISAN's development has had over the past few years. As you know, at this point, a good number of shares were undertaken, such as the payment of the land you left without paying, amounting to EUR 7.4 million. The payment of EUR 1.5 million is also being processed, which will be effective in the coming months. The retroaction of the expropriation file was initiated, to include mine rights, and returned to the condominium, thus ensuring the participation of the three administrations involved in this project. In total, between the three administrations invested in PLISAN, since 2009, about 7.8 million euros, of which nearly 1.4 million correspond to the Galician Institute of Living and Solo. With regard to economic dynamisation and the implementation of the line of aid for the purchase of industrial soil that you request, just one data. Since the beginning of 2015 there have been significant bonuses of up to 50% in the sale price of land owned by the Galego Institute of Housing and Soil and Xestur, and, thanks to these aids, between 2015 and 2016, these agencies have assessed more than 545,000 square metres of industrial surface, with subsidies amounting to 16.5 million euros, which will cover an investment of close to 348 million euros and the creation of 11,600 jobs between direct and indirect. It's hard for me to believe, really, Mr. Losada, that you don't know that. On the other hand, at the end of 2015, a new step forward was taken with the right-to-surface-adjusted business soil offer; a pioneering measure in Galicia, in which the adjudicator accesses the ground for thirty years, extendable by thirty others, paying a small canon and entitled to access the property of the plot for the first ten years. Mr. Losada, I tried to answer everything, you'll say no. But it's a pity I don't have too much time to remind your lordship of the amount of measures to support Galician business fabric that is developing this government through the different councils. But believe me it's worse to be sure that – you said it or not – they probably wouldn't count on your recognition, and even less on your support. So you'll understand that we're going to reject your motion. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u187	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. For the reply, Mr. Losada. I remind you, you've only got three minutes on this shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u188	Thank you, Madam President. I very much appreciate the reminder, as it could not be otherwise. Mr. Goldar, I have here the counsellor's intervention in the previous plenary session. Of course I read it with certain arrest, and it may have some attention deficit, but look, if you want, and Mrs. Vázquez intends, that we believe that when it is still going to be bid in 2017 the preliminary draft of EDAR and the ETAP of PLISAN – which, of course, I know, it is twelve months old; it is a mysterious thing but they are usually twelve months old –, also in 2017 it will be in condition that companies are installed, both producers and marketers, in PLISAN... Look, I also told the advisor in the intervention of the previous plenary. I don't know if the advisors tell him, but he's not. And if not, we'll either see it or see the Members here in 2017. Look, when you talked about that bountiful floor now, do you know what you reminded me of? To the wind competition. Do you remember? It was 14,000 jobs and 6 billion euros. They have a capacity to speak of thousands of jobs and millions of euros mobilized absolutely amazingly. But the fact is that economic agents in this country complain that industrial land has a prohibitive price. By the way, don't use the argumentary. The industrial polygon of Veigaña is in an urban area, Mr. Goldar, and that's why the price is undoubtedly higher than the price of a logistics platform between the municipalities of Salvaterra and the Snows, which, as you know for sure, is in an area where the price of the floor is much lower. I think it's easy to get there, I insist. I understand perfectly that the reason to seek four million square meters of industrial and commercial floor at a minimum affordable price, and relatively far from the port of Vigo, was precisely to lower its price. So the counterexample of Veygadaña, move him to the councillor, it's not worth it. Sionlla is next to Santiago de Compostela, and the polygon he spoke of in Lugo exactly the same. We're talking about a polygon that is 45 kilometers away from Vigo, and so that was the reason for finding a subsidised price. I repeat again that the fundamental complaint is the price of the industrial floor in this autonomous community. It's from today; it's not even a month ago, it's from today: Another French group is installed with two factories in northern Portugal to provide the PSA. In the last fifteen months, 340 million euros invested and 1,900 jobs created. "The Japanese group Howa chooses northern Portugal in front of Galicia to settle down." "North Portugal has captured 310 million in car investments in the past year." "The car industry chooses northern Portugal to invest 250 million in just four years." I know – I'm also very grateful for the lesson from the Counsellor and you – that there are other factors besides the price of the industrial floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u189	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u190	I also know that the wage sector is unfortunately there, but one of the fundamental reasons for these companies to move to Portugal is the price of the industrial floor, and – like you or not – there is a lecture that has been going on since the year 2000, and that the only thing that has been done – much, little, good or bad – has been done in the two-party government.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u191	Thank you. Motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be taken by Junta de Galicia in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in the fight against poverty and social exclusion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u192	You have the floor to Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, as we spoke at the meeting of the Social Policy Adviser, the Galician Social Inclusion Act, which should in theory be the most important political tool or political instrument of the Government of Greece to combat poverty and social exclusion, adopted in this Parliament in this legislation, is not developed. A law of the year 2013, which established in its transitional provisions that at the six months of its publication had to be developed, which also established in its additional provisions that every year the Greek Government had to bring to Parliament a balance of what was done with the development of that law and what was achieved with the objectives of that law, and that neither one thing nor the other, three years later, is achieved. I mean, we have a law of the year 2013, we're in May 2016, and we haven't published the decree to be published in six months, not even if you came to Parliament to explain why this law has not been developed. And yet we're processing every year the benefits of Galicia's social inclusion income with a series of evas derived from the non-regulatory development of this law, including discretion when granting these aids. He said in the debate of his audience, that we were recriminalized to opposition groups, and in particular to the Socialist Group, that we told him that there were homes in which there was no income and those who were not given any income of social inclusion. We didn't say much more than that. What we said is that there were criteria that were not explained in the law, opaque, untransparent criteria, that were being used by public officials not to grant certain people with certain profiles the income of social inclusion of Galicia. And what are those criteria? Well, I've explained them here on many occasions. One of them, for example, is that you house where there are rooms with right to kitchen where different people live in single-parent families, or in families of more than one member, because simply because they're stuck in the same home, even though the residence they have is only for a room with right to kitchen, those people are denying Galician social inclusion income, regardless of whether they have anything to do with each other; the only thing is that they share a home address, but they don't in any case share any kinship. And not just those people. There are other older people who have some disability benefit, who don't even get to minimum survival counts, who aren't granted the income of Galician social inclusion. And then, in addition, bureaucratized itself in excess of processing, which makes an important part of these more than 38,300 homes in which no income is entered today, an important part of the people who live in those homes, no longer even plan to access the request for social inclusion income, because the processing of them is an impossible bureaucratic burden to assume for people who have nothing, who have no income at all. Well, that's why we questioned the counsellor, to know what the reasons were for this law not developed until today, and what time I had planned to develop it. The truth is that the councillor recognized that, in fact, what is obvious is that the law is not developed, and that the explanation he gave us is that it was not the priority to develop the law, that the priority was that strategy that I call it the electoral agenda and he calls it the social agenda, which he came to present to us today, which does not contain – as he said also in that intervention – any measurement parameters that can tell us that what is being announced is not only electoral propaganda and is something to fight poverty and exclusion. Well, after all this, we present this motion, which you come to say is that you comply with what was already established in the legislation, and that it develops, that you publish the decree or decrees that develop this law, that you clarify the criteria of access to Risk, to avoid precisely discretion in your application, and that this is done before you end this session period. If there exists – as has been announced here on many occasions – a draft decree to develop this law, I don't know why it is not published at once in the Official Journal of Galicia, although it is continuously assumed here by the Government and the People's Group that the adviser talks a lot with the third sector entities and with the entities working in Galicia in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. In addition, we demand that the causes of this income be analysed, not from a distance, covering the target population, those 38,300 homes in which no income is entered today, and that there are only, in figures of 31 March this year, about 10,300 people in our country who receive the income of inclusion, that is, why it reaches only 30% of the target population. Because if we know the causes for which this right is not enough, or it is not universal enough, for all those people who have no income, because we will probably be able to solve this situation. But if you don't even stop to think about why this happens, it's clear that in no case we're going to reach that target population. And a third point of this motion is that we have to put it urgently – and we have requested it here on repeated occasions, and the truth is that it has always been voted against by the majority group that supports the Government – a plan of clash against poverty and social exclusion, a plan of shock with budget allocation, and that it has that objective population, exactly that of the homes in which no income enters. Because if we don't work in the emergency, which is that those people in whose homes don't enter any incomes can have any public benefit, it's hard for us to believe that the Government is going to take care of putting policies on the table, in the medium and long term, to fight poverty and social exclusion, especially if they persist in economic policy that is leading to the present, what it has done all these years is to cut down benefits, cut rights and above all increase payers, taxes, etc., from what was today's impoverished middle class, what is generating precisely is that the risk of poverty and social exclusion is rising. It's a simple motion. It has three points, which could be assumed for all parliamentary groups, if you really want to bet because this tool – Galician social inclusion income – serves to cover this target population, which today has no income, and which should be – the trial since the Socialist Parliamentary Group is – the absolute priority for the Government of Galicia, the absolute priority for those people who have absolutely no income. I look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u194	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u195	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Alternative Left-Galga will support this initiative, if, as you know, we present an addition amendment, to complement the approach we want to enter. It is true that we live in an increasingly impoverished society, because of cutting policies, austerity and austere policies carried out by the prevailing system. The data are sufficiently illustrative: 23.6 % – to accommodate the old ones and not already catch them before a critical score –, 23.6 % of people live at a risk rate of poverty and social exclusion, 16.4 at the risk rate of economic poverty, 7.56 % in severe material shortages, 13.80 % of homes with low labour intensity. This logically affects the rates of child poverty, with reports indicating that it is at 26.9%. More than 639.000 people know some kind of the three parameters of the AROPE rate, indicator of poverty. I mean, there's a series of signs that are alarming and amazing. And indeed, in fact, the Social Inclusion Act, which, as has already been said, between June 2013 and May 2016 should know the development decree and not do so, has nevertheless known other propaganda documents, such as the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia 2014-2020, where it aims to address personal and family situations of vulnerability, poverty and social exclusion. That is to say, in fact, we are in a climate of impoverishment, but the measures offered do not cease to be at the bottom of the aid cut-off measures, which is what has the help itself, which can hardly be of social inclusion with the accounts that are being fought, and it is with that arbitrary conditionality that is being granted, so that it is not even able to reach time, and not only does it not come in time, but it does not reach all the people who need it. So we can hardly talk about that principle of social inclusion, as soon as it does not exist when we talk about a wage of poverty, a wage of poverty, and in addition to in a country where public services that should complement the wage of the working class, because of course they are more and more prohibitive, because they also introduce all kinds of payouts, payouts and other kinds of formulas. So we live in a context of impoverishment that needs – that is why we introduced an amendment – to rise above the assistanceist criterion. And we have to talk about rights, rights that are being violated on a permanent basis today, and that a public administration must protect and guarantee those rights. Rights that would, for example, prevent people with hepatitis C from suffering what they suffered. Rights, for example, that would cause us not to have to see as Compostela's Trial Officer Number 6 refer to the Prosecutor's Office for possible criminal responsibilities the solution given by Social Policy and Health to a person without home. We're talking about rights, and they're bullying rights. That's why we added the need for it to be vertebrate and crafted from all sectors of public administration, in cooperation with all other public administrations in Galicia, a plan of Welsh human rights, a plan of Greek human rights, where the existence of a series of criteria, of precise indicators, to be measurable, quantifiable, verifiable, because without that we will certainly not be able to advance in what is the implementation of human rights. Within these human rights, there must indeed be the minimum incomes that enable us to guarantee a decent life. There must also be social policies that guarantee us basic rights and equal opportunities, such as education, health, social protection. And also logically in those rights we have the right not to have inequality as a formula that governs our lives, because what we have today is an unequal policy, where 1% of society lives on the body of rights of 99%. We have the right, therefore, to a fair tax system, which allows us to fairly redistribute all the money that is escaping, circumventing, and that is being stolen, at the bottom, about the rights of the body of workers and workers of the social majority. We therefore have the right to have rights, and not to claim a alms, to claim that the public administration is concerned about us, and to give us a social assistance which, above all, dramatically conditions people to pass a bureaucratic crossing, to have to wait and then see how inside it waits because it has to resort to other procedures to prevent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u196	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u197	...to see in the street, to have no food to give to their children, etc., etc.; therefore, let us flee from assistanceism, let us enter the body of rights. And that's why we demand that amendment of addition, simply because within that Human Rights Plan social inclusion would be one of the pillars. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Since it couldn't be otherwise, we're going to support this motion, because we understand that it's our rights, the rights won by the struggle of our predecessors. What is respect for the development of Law 10/2013 itself, we do understand that if the law was made, and very well the role, but it seems that the role is not worth anything. All people have been convicted of forgetting, of living badly in recent years. The delay in the application of this law, which had even been excused by the former advisor, was that the decree had to be made in order to develop it, and today the criteria with which this aid is given are still scarce, are missing, as well as the companion of the PSOE said. It is true that in recent years there has been an increase in social difference and we are calling for a greater political commitment to long-term financing and planning. We speak of a few words that we repeat this afternoon: coordination between all administrations, collaboration and, above all, prevention. So, of course, they are fundamental, too, even the contributions of the organizations of the so-called third sector, of social action, which have been covering the needs – as I said before – of all the eves caused by the irresponsibility of the administration itself. The fight against the causes of poverty and active inclusion, and the respect of people, far from the emergency care measures understood as an end in themselves, are also essential to ensure, among other things, people without a roof, that are often also the great forgotten. You should know what causes motivated them to reach this extreme. We must also contribute to analysing the reality of poverty and social exclusion, of course, we have figures, but it seems we have never noticed or have never noticed how this situation has turned out. We were talking earlier – and they mentioned it – about the population rate at risk of poverty or social exclusion, if it was 23.8, well, they gave us the updated term. What we do know is that we talk about nearly 100,000 people at risk of poverty and social exclusion and about some 600,000 people who also have a lot of problems. If I want to reflect some IGE data on the rate of risk of poverty and social exclusion that needs to be taken into account, because we have to start there to do prevention: under 16, we speak of 24.11%; 16 to 24 years, 31.29%; 25 to 49 years, 22.82%; 50 to 64 years, 28.42%; and over 65 years, 11.58%. The increase experienced with this indicator between the population between 50 and 64 years old and the drop between the population between 25 and 49 years old and more than 65 years old, from 47% to 44%. People living in homes with more intensity at work, ranging from 0 to 59 years, are also indicated in 14.1%, with more than 275,000 Greeks from a population of 1,955,357 people in that age group. And then we talked about the levels of extreme poverty, which is 3.3% of the total population, which we talked about before 90,236 people. And then what was the AROPE index, where we have to take into account the new valuations or new terms that are used, which is a multidimensional concept to define poverty or social exclusion, which is the risk rate of poverty after social transfers, the severe lack of material goods and homes that have low labour intensity; then people from 0 to 59 years live in homes where their working age members have done less than 20% of their total job potential. And so for example, if in a two adult home where only one adult works a full day, the intensity of work would be 50%, if both work a full day, the intensity would be 100%, and if one of the adults works half a day, and the other one completes the intensity of work would be 75%. So, taking into account these data, even what we talk about the severe lack of material, is the proportion of the population living in homes that lack the four concepts of the following nine – which I mentioned in the previous intervention –: delays in payment of mortgages or rentals, 7.2%; delays in payment of electricity bills, water and gas, 6.6%; delays in payment of accepted purchases and other loans, 5.9%; which cannot be maintained with proper temperature, 14.1%; which cannot be allowed to eat meat, meat or fish at least every two days, 1.8%; which cannot face certain types of unforeseen expenses, or which cannot even have first-needed household appliances. So, I don't understand, the data is there, I don't know where the German Government is looking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u201	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. I remember years ago reading a book about globalization that said – I don't remember the title exactly – Ignacio Ramonet that we walk towards a world in the form of an archipelago, that is, where the pockets of poverty are not just north-south, but will be distributed as very small pockets of wealth in the south and growing pockets of poverty in the north, by dividing the planet, I think we understand it. Well, that's the situation in which we are, because in fact, one of the issues we have been dealing with in this legislation is the increase in poverty, that new way of diversifying poverty – as we have said before – into work poverty, children, energy. In a word, poverty, which is increasingly extended because employment levels are lower. And because as we have just seen in the data we knew today about the INE, wage loss is very strong: in Galicia 300 euros on average in the wages of the Greeks and the Greeks in recent years, in the years of the crisis. That is what puts many people in so-called labour poverty, that is, even if you have a full-time paid job, you can find it hard to reach the end of the month – as the honourable Member has explained to me in detail in her data – or even to pay bills, for example, for light and gas, which is called energy poverty. That's why it was absolutely necessary to develop the bill of inclusion, which I don't understand either, I don't know what it is, but there has to be some reason. We tend to think that there are reasons for things, that there is a kind of cause and effect; it's true that not always has that causal relationship, but it's a way that we have to think of human beings. And we understand that something is happening in the Act of Social Inclusion so that not all the regulations that depend on it are developed, which, of course, the number one point of this motion is simply to comply with the law. Point Two is something that we have so often wondered about, indeed, what is the relationship between the data presented to us from homes at risk of poverty and risk data? What's going on? Don't you know this resource? Aren't people enough? Aren't you asking? What is this important difference between the data that is put to us on this initiative of 38,300 homes and 10,000 people, more or less? Today we were given slightly higher data by the social policy advisor himself, but that's the reality, that is to say, people who are in this situation - according to official data - of social exclusion or at risk of poverty. And the last point of the motion is, of course, to support it, even though today we have devoted much of the intervention of the advisor. I was bringing here the different proposals that the counselor has made in recent months, since the 2014-2020 inclusion strategy. He has already explained to us that they materialized in Galicia's new social agenda, that he himself on the website of the Union himself is defining as key measures for the fight against poverty. We should also consider whether exactly the way to design the labour market, how to design the distribution of wealth and income from government planning itself should not be the other one to avoid having to have so many plans to shock poverty, with so many housing measures, of access to drugs... we're looking at energy poverty today, if the problem is really about the economic policies that are being designed, which lead each time to that form of archipelago – which I think is a very visual metaphor of how we are living today –. We thought, in the city of Vigo, they gave us – to take the city where I reside – their data the advisor himself, of more than 2,000 people who perceive Risk. Every time we have bigger pockets of poverty and I continue to maintain that the social agendas presented to us are remedies. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u202	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Group today presents a motion that comes from an interpellation of the whole past, an interpellation to which the Social Policy Adviser came to explain to the Socialist Parliamentary Group what the reasons are for the fact that the Galician Social Inclusion Act is not yet legally developed. Now the socialist spokesman tells us in his speech that the causes of the delay in the regulatory development of this law have not been explained in Parliament. I think, of course, the explanations were given by the advisor in the past, where he said that the first 2015-2016 Operational Plan that develops this Social Inclusion Strategy, where the decree of the law on which the draft is presented, was approved on May 4. But he also explained that they are now acting and putting in place measures to fight against economic exclusion and inequality, measures as we have already spoken at the counsellor's presence. The explanations are therefore given by the Galician Board, specifically by the Social Policy Adviser. At today's plenary the councillor came to report on Galicia's new social agenda, we're not going to repeat what we said a few minutes ago. And now the Socialist Group is presenting to us a motion calling for the Galician Union to put in place a plan of shock to fight against inequality, poverty and social exclusion. The truth is, you will have to understand that after the answer to your question in the past full, and after today's appearance of the counselor – where you have often explained not only the measures that have been put in place since 2009, not only the increase in resources that have been carried out since 2009, but also that you have explained what is going to happen from now – the step that is going to take is forward with that agreement between Galician municipalities, between the Fegamp and social entities. You will of course understand, Mrs Gallego, that for the People's Parliamentary Group the measures are explained – I know you do not share them – and the social agenda is explained, and of course the municipalities agree, the Fegamp agrees, the social entities agree, and the parliamentary group agrees. So we think that the real remedy is not the social agenda, the real remedy is your motion. Because after hearing what this agenda is going to consist of, you present a motion asking for a plan of shock for the fight against poverty and social exclusion. Of course, I believe that having listened to what has been explained here to this Parliament, it is not appropriate today to adopt this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u205	Thank you, Mr. President. First, thank the opposition groups for their support for this motion. Tell Mr Ron that I am not going to accept his amendment to add, not because I don't think it is important to speak in the Galician Parliament about a Greek human rights plan, but because I think it has little to do with the fight against poverty and social exclusion; because human rights go a little further than the economic situation of people, they embrace much more. I am sure that if you present it on your own motion, the Socialist Group will be willing to support it. And regret that the People's Parliamentary Group does not want the Government to do what it has to do. Because there is a law of the year 2013 in which the Government of Galicia committed itself to the issue of a decree to develop this law in six months, to which the Government had to come every year to appear in the Parliament of Galicia to take stock of what had been achieved with this law of social inclusion. What the Socialist Group is asking is that we develop what had to be done already in 2013 – which we are in 2016 and is not doing – that we come to Parliament to appear, that we take stock of what the law itself says and, on the other hand, that we look at the causes by which, having the provision of all a tool such as Galicia's social inclusion income, there are 38,300 Greek homes in which no income enters and only 10,300 people who perceive this income. Something's wrong. Obviously, something happens with this income. There's an objective population that doesn't reach her. Well, the People's Group doesn't want to have a law developed by the People's Group. Well, better said, he did the government and he supported the People's Group. You'll see. Look, how are we not going to criticise the electoral agenda – called by the "social agenda" counselor – of the counselor who came to us in the audience with answers like this? Do you think it is satisfactory for an opposition group that when asked to a counselor why a law is not developed that tells us – as we were told in the interpellation – that it was not the priority – to develop the law – that the priority was to do does not know what a strategy is? It's because the law says that at six months he had to be published his development. It's not a matter of priorities, it's a legal obligation. Apart from what we're talking about fighting against poverty and social exclusion, which should not be a priority of that counselor, but rather the priority of the Government as a whole, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. But it has already been seen that the Government wants to make plans, agendas, without targets, without measures, quantifiable, verifiable and follow-up, to follow the strategy of the election campaign, but certainly not the people who today in Galicia have no income and for which Mr. Feijóo's government gives no solution. That's why you vote against that motion. Well, there you are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u206	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u207	We shall proceed to the vote on the motions. We voted for the first motion. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Union of Galicia in linguistic matters. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u208	With the next motion, there is a request for a vote by points which the parliamentary group has put forward... do you accept a point vote? So – it’s just – I wasn’t in that debate – if you explain to me what the point vote was like, can you group? Give Mrs. Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u209	They are, on the one hand, points 1, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u210	1, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u211	Yes, and then 2 and 3.3.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u212	We proceed to vote. Joint vote on points 1 and 3.1, 3.2 and 3.4 of the G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the supply of industrial soil and the putting into operation of the Logistics and Industrial Platform of Salvaterra-As Neves, PLSAN. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u213	Voting the remaining points of this motion. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the supply of industrial soil and the putting into operation of the Logistics and Industrial Platform of Salvaterra-As Neves, PLSAN, except the points already voted. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26; votes against, 37; abstentions, 3. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u214	In the next motion, Mrs. Gallego does not accept the amendment of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u215	We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the development by the Galician Union of the plan of support for artisanal fishing announced by the Sea Council and directed to improve its competitiveness, as well as the working conditions of its professionals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u216	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u217	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u218	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly agree that our fleet of bass, the artisanal coastal fleet, constitutes a factor of social and economic development of the first order. In the case of Galicia, this segment, along with marqueo on foot, is of fundamental importance. We're talking about a fleet representing about 85% of the total number of ships, around 3,500 units. We speak of a fleet without which we would not understand Galicia: basic in the economy of hundreds of peoples and coastal villages in our country; essential in the nearing of raw materials for the processing and marketing process of our fish and seafood; especially for the sea-industrial chain; and worthy of our utmost interest and attention. And, precisely today, from the People's Parliamentary Group we want to transfer to this House an initiative – in this case a non-law proposal – whose essential aim is to promote and develop the Plan of Support for Craft Coastal Fisheries, which was designed by the Council of the Sea; a plan that aims both at improving the competitiveness of this fleet segment and at improving the working conditions of its professionals. Among the actions planned to achieve these objectives, we propose six concrete measures – which will soon be detailed – through which the Union seeks to convert the artisanal coastal fleet into the greatest effort centred in the coming years, both from a technical and an economic point of view. First of all, we want to take precedence over the lowering fleet and its professionals, as preferred beneficiaries of future aid and subsidies. Also in competitive competition processes; and this means that when the Administration compares the different applications submitted, those corresponding to the artisanal coastal fleet can get higher score and more content in the grant. Secondly, the People's Group calls for an employment plan to be launched; an employment plan to promote and facilitate generational relief in the field of the craft fleet. In this line, the Sea Council designed a program that combines training and learning, eminently practical; a plan in which every year seventy-five young men and girls will enlist on this type of vessel and receive remuneration for their work. Thirdly, the populars also demand to promote marketing improvement initiatives, with particular attention to products such as perceived, knife and hedgehog or, in general, shellfish. And also promotion measures, improved traceability, consumer information and opening up new markets. The German Government will establish special direct guidance with this objective. Fourthly, we urge the Union to reactivate the plants for the production of bivalve molluscs seed, to increase the capacity of productive areas and strengthen those with lower capacity. In this same field, the popular bet on natural genetic research and selection of individuals most resistant to pests, parasites and predators. As a fifth point – you will have to answer because then you will come here and talk about everything but the initiative – we demand... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u219	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u220	Mr. President, I don't know if you want to speak to Mr. Fajardo anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u221	Then it's up to him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u222	It's just that Mr. Fajardo, as he always talks about fishing and he has a lot to talk about, maybe he wants to intervene now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u223	Go on, get on with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u224	As a fifth point, we demand the momentum of quality marks and designations of origin, based on the positive experience offered by the Rías Fisheries label once recast with the lines marked by the sector, and which since its implementation has managed to certify millions of kilograms of fishery and seafood products, coming from the craft fleet. And finally, the plan designed by the Council of the Sea – and that we want to promote the Popular Parliamentary Group and that we want to promote the popular – also envisages the incorporation of improvements on board in fishing vessels; improvements that result in energy efficiency, that give more value added to catches or strengthen the conditions of comfort, hygiene and health. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the working conditions of the fishermen. You know that, as a political party and as a party that we support the action of the Government, we are legitimate in order to advance this plan, even without the need to submit it to the consideration of the whole of Parliament. But we didn't want to do it; we didn't want to do it because, precisely, what we wanted was to participate in the opposition groups. We wanted them to take part in the various measures to push and, in their case, they could enrich this plan with new approaches. And it's not, therefore, a closed catalogue; so we wanted you to participate too. We propose a series of commitments, which the Council of Galicia is planning to implement, and to those who can add new additions, of you. I see there's an amendment from the AGE, which I'm going to pronounce on in the second round. But in addition to actions, we need to be clear about the funding of this plan. We need to be clear on the funding of this plan. And that's why I'll explain what we want to do and how we plan to do it. In this case, it should take advantage of the new resources available from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. And here we must remember that Galicia will be the preferred recipient of these Community aid provided by 2020. It is not a result of chance, but after an intense negotiation developed both in Brussels and in Madrid. To this point, our community will receive around 487 million euros. That is, we have just received 45.32% of the total resources in 2007-2013 to more than 50.88% today, up to 2020, which is EUR 487 million. And the Council of Galicia and the Government of Galicia plans to allocate to this Action Plan for artisanal fisheries around 42% of the funds we receive, i.e. EUR 158 million. That's why we call them, ultimately, to add positively to the design of a plan of competitiveness, strengthening and boosting the fleet of casualties in a sector that in Galicia brings together more than 3,500 vessels, which account for the livelihood for 5,000 crew members and represent approximately 22% of the total value of landing of fish and seafood in our community. Waiting, as it could not be otherwise, to support this initiative, because it is true that you, when we talk to you about high and high fishing, usually talk about bass fishing, now have a good opportunity to prove whether you are working to support bass fishing or not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u225	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u226	Very good night to all and to all. The truth is that this MP, who never talks about fishing, who for Mr. Balsairo is a disabled man... but, well, that's what democracy has, elects disabled people, for all spokesmen, not just for AGE, eh! I'd like you to clear up some questions. For example, if you tell me that you will add 42% of 487 million euros from the European Fisheries Fund for traditional fishing, I would like you to explain to me how that is 158 million euros, because to me the accounts do not come out. I'm an ass, but 42% are something like 205 million euros. I'd like you to explain. I'd like you to explain to me, too, from your illustration on the subject of fishing, which consists of this process by which the fishing plan will propose that we investigate the ability of the bivalves to resurrect the losers, which is what you have proposed from here, because, of course, it is important for us to know what this plan is. Because the People's Party's initiative says this: as always, absolutely nothing. It says directly what we are going to approve today: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to develop the plan of support for artisanal fishing announced by the Sea Council and aimed at improving the competitiveness of this fleet segment and the working conditions of its professionals." But it doesn't say how, it doesn't say anything at all. We have to support a plan at our feet and join them in the knowledge that then the People's Party will do something else. Look, I'll give you some data. You're talking about improving marketing and labelling to guarantee the sales capacity of our producers. How is that compatible with the decision of the European People's Party taken before the European Union to defend the free labelling of manufactured products? That is to say, you have just argued in the European Union that in the products produced it is the producer who decides if the origin of the product is made. How is that compatible with this proposal that you bring here today? Who do you want to fool? Who do they want to fool when they're directly attacking our traditional fishing and our shellfish and now they're forced to wash their faces or trying to wash their faces when the whole sector has risen up against you and your policies because they're drowning them? What do you mean when you talk about a job plan? How do we create a job plan when they eliminate fishing capabilities, when they reduce quotas, when our people have to come back because they close their fishing lines? How do you make a job plan if you can't catch our traditional fishing? I'd like all these questions to be explained, because under the heading of the employment plan we'll all agree, but how will more people be used in our traditional coastal fleet if there are no fishing capabilities? Because you didn't manage it or claim it in Madrid and you weren't able to claim it in front of the European Union. So we're once again faced with cheap electoralism and this route that you make through the ports of Galicia, where a press conference coincides with a proposal for Parliament. In this case he touched Cambados. You went to Cambados to defend what you bring here today. But then there's nothing behind these proposals but hiding a reality. Look if this is so much so that this morning the advisor herself spoke of that she considered traditional fishing and craftsmanship fishing the trawling of the coast. I'd like you to say, therefore, if you're also going to look at this fishery with regard to the apportionment of the 158 million euros that you've come to announce here today; if that's also your plan to make clear what the People's Party refers to. And, above all, what the People's Party refers to when it has also supported the defence of the blue economy in the European Union, which, as I have already said on this stage more often, means that fishing on our coasts is a secondary element and that priority will be given to the use of energy and mining capabilities of our sea and our coasts above the use of fishing. That's the reality of the People's Party, which has after trying to deceive people by selling proposals that in their political practice they don't defend. It's more an exercise of political hypocrisy. So we in our amendment tell him what we think there is to be done and what are some of the issues that have to be done to defend our coast and to defend, of course, our traditional fishing, and among one of those fundamental issues is the comprehensive sanitation of our rivers and our coastline, which you don't even consider. Why? Because one of the fundamental elements of achieving this goal is that our fishing vessels can be put out of the sea and that this one is occupied by another kind of exploitation, which is the one defended by the People's Party and its spokesmen in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u227	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez. You can talk from the bench if you want, if you're more comfortable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u228	Thank you, President, but now, at last, we've done our job. Mr. Balsairo, you came here to repeat the press round that took place on 26 April in the port of Fistra, exactly the same; an initiative that came to defend a plan of support for artisanal coastal fishing designed by the Councillory of the Sea. That's what you've repeated here today, and you sell us the thousand wonders of the plan: giving priority to the handicraft coastal fleet in access to future aids and subsidies – it's not explained how or what criteria, nothing – it's put in place of a job plan – you don't know what kind of training; if there's going to be training, as is going to be this employment plan, for many people..., nothing is known – improved marketing – even without explaining more – and other measures such as the reactivation of the bivalves or the seed of bivalves or the impulse of the quality marks and designations of origin, in which, as Mr. Fajardo has told you, agree on what measures they want to take, if they really want to recognise the origin of the products and defend their origin or on whether they want everything to be worth all the fish out here as a yellow fish and that goes around the world as a yellow fish, as it is happening now with their liking, with the People's Party. You in the press round that you said it is not a closed catalogue – legally –: "...it will be subject to the consideration of the opposition sector and groups; hence we take this initiative to Parliament to facilitate the debate and that the proposed plan can be enriched with new approaches". Mr. Balsairo, first, submit the plan to the sector; if there is no agreement with the sector, there is no plan worth it. So I understand that you bring us here again the propaganda of the People's Party. And, of course, what is given in this House today is not a debate to bring it near. You bring here a non-law proposal that will pass with your absolute majority, but without giving any option to the opposition to enrich the said plan and bring in different initiatives and solutions that may be different. So you're here advertising, but again they forget about the sailors. You always forget, and I'm going to tell you something you've previously answered when it was the appearance: it has nothing to do with improving fishing quotas to improve the conditions of the sailors. You can't confuse things. We're not talking about quiñon, we're talking about working conditions. I wouldn't laugh because it's sad enough to talk to sailors who have annual wages of 8,000 euros or 9,000 euros, those who don't get their salary to live, after having developed an excessively hard and excessively heavy job, an excessively without rights. So don't laugh at the penalties of the workers and the sea workers, Mr. Balsairo. I only have to tell you -- I really didn't think or intervene -- is that it's a shame that they use this House to make electoral propaganda at the end of the legislation, to come promise the sailors, to craft fishing, which has been all these years enduring a tremendous situation, that now, at the end of the legislation, you come with a plan; of supreme saviors. Well, as the International says, we know that there are no supreme saviors, neither king nor tribe nor God. The working class has made it clear that we have to save ourselves, just as the artisanal fishing is clear, which, if we wait for the People's Party, the only thing we can expect is its ruin. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u230	Good afternoon, everyone. I see Mr. Balsairo, now that the elections have arrived and after the sector has made it clear that they are not the interlocutors, he is willing to visit the various ports of Galicia, but not to tell us what they did or the problems they have there in particular; he prefers, on the contrary, to come here, just as he goes to the ports, to tell us about the future. He was in Ribeira presenting the Plan of Conservation, forgetting that there was a strategic plan for the period 2007-2013 that he was betting on quality and differentiation, which did not apply by betting a part of Anfaco for competing with large groups at low prices. He has also been in Marín, presenting a proposal by Arvi for quota management that do not fish other countries in the Great Sun, forgetting the reality of that port, forgetting the death of its shoreline, of how the coast fleet is replaced by Portuguese or how the cephalopod fleet was expelled. He was also in Celeiro, promising to put together medals for Coast Guard service members and to get them some reduction coefficients that allow them to retire in advance. And now he has traveled to the Forest, not to defend the way or regulate the drag activity, as the sector calls for, or to develop a new marine reserve, not; it was again to tell us that they're going to draw new paths, but this time, again, propaganda. [[Murmurs.]] As a salesman, the truth is, it doesn't have a price. I don't know what I'd do before I became a Member. This time, you forgot that this same plan has already been introduced by the Secretary General of Fisheries in Nantes in February 2015, more than a year ago. [[Murmurs.]] It committed itself to prioritising the investments of the CEM for artisanal fishing. Curiously – and it looks like it had time – in the budgets this year, what prioritized was 18 million for intensive aquaculture. And he also spoke of the employment program, after you had imposed the individual distribution model from 2014 that caused the ruin of a whole generation of young people who had joined the sector during the crisis. There's to dew, eh! for the boats, as you know, used to have a value depending on the tonnage and now they have a value depending on the quota they have, and most of them have a smaller quota. And to talk about improving the marketing of species like the hedgehog, you see, the longiron, and also in Fistra, when you closed the expedition center and liquidated the promotion of the quality brand "Lingueirron of Fistra", you must pray! not to mention your position to question the judgment of the labelling. But where they really get away with it is by reactivating the centers of production of bivalve molluscs, when last week we came to prove that the mini-creator of Camarinas has been inoperative since 2011, suffering, the marishers in particular, a dramatic situation, with a fall in marketing in its legislate from 1.4 million to only 400,000 euros last year. So we're facing a new theatricalization of the People's Party, with nothing to do with reality, living artisanal fishing and seafood an emergency situation. We see it in the prohibition of accidental catches of species such as garden, ray or abbot; we see it in the model of asphyxiating taxes and taxes to which they have undergone the lowering sector, we see it in the application of disproportionate and abusive measures such as the shop, which in many cases must improve the vessel so that it can fit, and in a model of shellfish where there is more and less shellfishing, less income, less resources, whose purpose is to expel these from the activity, precaution of employment and privatize the right to fish. They had, Mr. Balsairo, two legislatures to compromise their support for artisanal fishing and we've seen their result in the way and the accidental captures or, if you like, the seafood. You come here to do what you used to do before you were a Member in this House, but the sector needs something else, but not something that comes at the end of two legislations, but something that comes at the beginning of that opportunity that we gave to the Greeks and that maybe at the next call we will withdraw you. We are therefore not going to support this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u231	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u232	Thank you, President. Good evening, everyone. Well, that this is only about propaganda I think we have meridionally clear all that we are here, even the Members of the People's Party who are the ones who allow Mr Balsairo that in every plenary we have to attend this sequence again. First, the People's Party logically took an initiative in the Galician Parliament; secondly, it included the initiative on the agenda of the plenary; and a third step which is to take Mr. Balsairo's visit through various ports, this initiative served him to go to the Fisterra, to Cambados and to the Viveiro, and the truth is that he's getting better, in the first place he was going to one place and in this one it was already three. And, yes, then Mr. Balsairo says that he visits the ports and meets with the sector and what he only does is to take a picture surrounded by Popular Party offices in the different localities and then come here saying that he meets with the sector and that he visits the ports, nothing like that. Therefore, I believe that the aim of this initiative is more than fulfilled, the rigour of the People's Party's Member and Fishery, and therefore nothing more than to value, because if we come to appreciate the substance of this issue, we can find things as curious as the People's Party in Parliament of Galicia asks the People's Party in Government to put in place a plan designed by the People's Party in Government itself, something completely surreal, because I'm going to read what Mr. Balsairo asks for in his text: The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to develop the Plan of Handicraft Fisheries Support announced by the Council of the Sea, that is, there is a plan that contemplates some actions but that the Galician Union does not put it into effect until the People's Party in Parliament of Galicia comes here to tell him to do so. [[Applause]] Truly, indeed, Mr. Balsairo, indeed Mr. Balsairo that this is a true coat of hair. First, for the professionals of the sea who theoretically is the one who will address this famous program and, second, to the opposition groups. I mean, a few hours ago in this Parliament, the other coat of hair, the Counsellor came here to tell us all that she had held a few days, and now we've come here to see Mr Balsairo directly treating us as fools to Members of this Parliament. In other words, within four months of the dissolution of the Galician Parliament and the completion of this legislation, Mr. Balseiro promises that they will put in place a plan to dynamize coastal fishing and that it is so absurd that you yourself are disallowing all the policy that they have put in place in the Council of the Sea, that is to say, they have done absolutely nothing, because speaking at these heights of: giving priority to the artisanal coastal fleet of aid, putting in place a job plan, marketing improvement initiative, reactivation of seed production facilities, boosting quality brands, is something as evident as saying that, during these seven years, you have not been able to put in place any single promotion action for artisanal fishing. So, Mr. Balsairo, I already tell you that we are not going to take part in this coat of hair, first because it is only about your propaganda initiative, going out to visit your party partners in different localities and then because it is actually a plan that is not going to focus on the problems of artisanal fishing. It's not about managing resources, it's not about sharing fishing opportunities, that is, it's not about what really worries people who are able to fish and work with dignity and not about asking for and crying for help from the People's Party. Therefore, Mr. Balsairo, nothing but to tell you, that I hope you will finish with your tour, you have already made quite a few visits to your friends and partymates in different localities and therefore first I ask you to deal with with with a little rigor and seriousness the problems that the people of the sea have and that if you stop coming here to play, again and again, issues that you have not been able to put into effect in these last seven years. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u233	Thank you, Mr. Val. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u234	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u235	Quiet, please. Quiet, please, we're finishing now. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. You don't start until there's silence. Quiet, please. Whenever you want, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u236	Thank you, Mr. President. I see Mr. Val is worried because I'm listening to the ports, I think that's a virtue and it's important. I have to tell you that as I am from the same neighborhood as him, it is possible for him to listen to him through Galicia because they don't listen to him in their own neighborhood or in their own county, so of course, that's the only difference between you and me, and then, do you talk about rigour from the fishing sector? I'm not going to explain it, because if I told you here, some things would become colorful, the rigour you have. Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u237	She said Mrs. Martínez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u238	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u239	...that I said here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u240	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u241	...what I said on the press conference. Home! Because I was going to say... [[Murmurs.]] What would you say in the press round one thing and here another? What were you going to say here? But what was I supposed to say? [[Interruptions.]] Are you going to give a press round and say something on the press round and something else here? Well, you're right, you're right. [[Applause]] And you call them propaganda for the six concrete measures that we put there, but we only put the six measures, and we said how we were going to fund them, and for you it's propaganda. Hey, which of those measures are you against? Are you against those six stockings? Are you against a job plan? Are you against making them preferred beneficiaries of aid? Are you against a marketing impulse plan? Are you against that? You're done, because we have nothing to talk about, Mr. President. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-24-DSPG154.u242	Sorry, I understand you don't accept the amendment. We suspended the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
