ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u1	Good morning. We opened the session. The next item is the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, No. 595, which is why it is not read. No inassistances have been justified. Changes in the development of the plenary meeting
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u2	Before I go into the agenda, I should like to inform you of the changes that will take place during the plenary session, which consist of two motions, in particular motion 46269, of the Nationalist Block of Wales, and 46270, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which will be discussed after debate. In the afternoon we will discuss the other motion and then we will discuss the appearance. And tomorrow, on Wednesday, the non-legislative proposals, which I have already announced to the spokespersons, will be discussed the third question, which corresponds to the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia. So we started the agenda with the first point. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, of the Galician Soil Law Project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u3	The amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galaxy of the Left, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia are kept for the plenary. The President of Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, Mr Santiago Freire Abeijón, has the floor for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galician Soil Bill was entered into the Parliamentary Register on October 15, 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 16 October 2015, admitted this initiative and issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments. The period ended on 6 and 24 November 2015 for amendments to the whole and the articulated respectively. Even so, at the meeting on October 20, 2015, once he heard the Speaker's Board, he agreed to its proceedings by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services. At the plenary session on November 24, 2015, the four amendments were rejected to the total return presented by the groups of the Galician Socialists, the Nationalist Block of Galicia, the Alternative Left and Mixed Galician. The amendments to the articulate formulated add a total of 377:36 by the People's Group, 63 by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 138 by the Group of the Alternative Left Galicia and 91 by the Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, to end with 49 by the Group of the Mixed Group. For its part, the Pontiff was designated in Commission 2nd on 3 December 2015 and composed of the following rapporteurs: Mr Jaime Castineira Broz, by the People's Group of Galicia; Mr José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo, by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia; Ms Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, by the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego; Mr Antón Sánchez García, by the Group of the Alternative Left Gallaga; and Ms Consuelo Martínez García, by the Group of the Mixed Group. Following the constitutive session of 9 December 2015, the report was completed at the following eight meetings on 18 January 2016. Subsequently, Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, at its meeting on January 29, most approved the dictatorship, incorporating into the text of the bill a total of 79 amendments, 28 of them dealt with, and after the withdrawal of 6 amendments to the motion. Finally, it follows that the articulated text of the dictum consists of the following parts: first, an exposition of reasons; then, 168 articles grouped into eight headings relating to general provisions, urban planning, urban planning, rules of direct application, execution of urban planning, public soil heritage, intervention in the construction of land use and urban discipline, and urban conventions; then also consists of two additional provisions relating to the Galician Digital Urban Platform and urban management of general systems through sectoral project; eight verb transitions of the scheme applicable to municipalities with unadapted planning and municipalities without planning, adaptation of the official plan, operations and facilities supporting the existing agricultural and forestry activity, reserve of protected housing, equidistirtion and urbanization projects in processing, juridicy settlements beyond the planning and complementary provisions of this law; a provision of the unique derogation, operations and facilities of the existing agricultural and forestry activity, from the subject area to the proposed protection measures. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we must finish the process of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the amendments maintained and the Commission's dictation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u5	Thank you, Mr. Freire. The role of the parliamentary groups in setting the position on the dictatorship and in defending the amendments that have been maintained. [[Pause.]] For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u6	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. When we gave the debate in committee of this bill, I was still hoping that the People's Party would put into practice its promise and commitment to approach society and allow the debate of this bill to be continued with the presence of well-known collectives and technicians in this area in order to draw up a new text which had been adopted by consensus from all parliamentary groups. But today surely the People's Party approves the Land Law alone and refuses to design a sustainable model that respects the architectural, natural and landscaped heritage, which reduces the conflict and legal insecurity and guarantees the right to housing and the protection of the rustic soil, the coastline and the banks of the rivers. Of the 49 amendments tabled by the Joint Group, 2 were accepted, 4 were negotiated and 43 were rejected. Amendments to the rural environment have been rejected, such as Amendment No 1, which intended to include as object of this law the regulation, management and protection of the rural environment, of the rural population nuclei located in it, and of the rural heritage. The rural environment also has to see Amendment 12 – also rejected – to Article 19 with regard to the definition of rural core soil, not accepting any amendment or attempting to reach an agreement in the definition with any of the amendments submitted by the opposition. There is also Amendment 16 to Article 22, which intended to limit industrial installations in rural nuclei to those uses linked to the nucleus. The new law allows the installation of any kind of industry, and what was intended was that these industries were connected to the middle. Amendment 18 to article 29 intended that urban development in rustic soil of ordinary protection would be restricted to qualified soil as urbanizable and not to all the rustic soil. Amendment 30 to Article 45 is for special protection soils to be included in the Autonomic Basic Plan and the Special Protection Land Identification Plan, as they can only be protected if they are included in the identified Basic Plan. Amendments have also been rejected that affect social justice, such as Amendment No. 7 to Article 7 so that administrative silence is considered to be positive in the case of claims against expropriations, since negative administrative silence authorizes such expropriation without being ascertained whether expropriation is being carried out in fair and correct terms. So the one who leaves unprotected is precisely those people who are going to lose their homes. Also amendment 37 to article 104, to guarantee the right of royalties before execution of expropriation, with the guarantee of this royalties until effective, if so, the right of return. The right to housing must prevail over any other right and one cannot expropriate and leave people without a housing that they can afford, or without receiving help to pay for that housing until the right to royalty becomes effective. There is also Amendment No 42 to Article 138, so that, in the case of eviction of persons from their usual housing for security reasons, administrations will have what they need for the immediate reallocation of people in another housing, ensuring the necessary help. Amendment 14 has been rejected as well. It was an amendment to article 20, which sought to ensure the distribution of loads and benefits among all the owners affected by compulsory transfers for free spaces, green areas, equipment and roads. Today there is a total imbalance and inequality between the owners according to these forced expropriations. Amendment 19 also relates to social life and social quality, affects Article 34 and sought that in the case of authorisations for the pending construction of the grant grant the Administration should respond before the deadline for granting the grant expires. So here the character of administrative silence should be positive. It doesn't make sense that winning farms can lose a grant because the Welsh administration doesn't answer in time. That's a coat of hair, it's to punish another sector of itself already quite punished; and of course it's not a bet by the cattle sector or by the dairy sector. We therefore believe that the Administration is obliged to respond in time so that they can access such aid. However, it has been rejected, we don't know very well why, the truth. I guess it's because the board has already decided that most of the time it won't answer and roll through the middle street, and, as always, they lose the poorest. Amendment 26 to article 38 was so that the social housing reserve would take into account the forecasts of population developments and not only the register of housing applicants. It is known that not all people in need of housing are applicants for social housing; more importantly, the worst is the socio-economic situation of these families, the less they respond to that request, the less they access the administration, they find themselves with many more barriers. And, therefore, we believe that this soil reserve should not only count on the plaintiffs but also on the forecast of population developments and the socio-economic situation. And Amendment 36 to Article 75 was to include among the objectives of urban plans the improvement of mobility, security and accessibility. I don't understand that a land law doesn't take into account something as demanding, something as urgent, as it is to influence everything that refers to ensuring the improvement of the mobility of citizens and citizens, their security when they're on the street and accessibility for everyone. It is fundamental and, however, it has been rejected. Amendments related to construction have also been rejected, such as Amendment 23, which sought to achieve a definition of agreed traditional building. However, the People's Party rejected any definition of traditional building that was not its own, which simply fits into that which are all those built before 1975. Well, there are real animals and aberrations built before 1975 that have nothing to do with our country and that, however, the People's Party will consider them traditional. There is also Amendment No 20 to Article 35, to regulate in urban planning the exceptionality in volume or height, or Amendment No 24 to Article 37, so that urban planning has as its objective in the consolidated urban soil to promote the conservation and recovery of the built heritage of relevant urban spaces, unique architectural elements and types, traditional forms of land occupation and differential and distinctive outlines that make up local identity. A fine that has been rejected, as many amendments have been rejected and as their intention in the Law of Cultural Heritage is already translated. Heritage is seriously at risk with the People's Party, and that risk placates it in all the laws it is proposing, in all bills, including the Soil Bill and the Cultural Heritage Bill. Amendment 41 to Article 133, which provided economic assistance for the recovery and adaptation of buildings. Let's go back to the abandonment of our heritage. They also refused amendments to the protection of the environment, such as Amendment No 47 to the transitional provision sixth, which established that "Contracting installations located in areas of special protection, particularly on the banks of rivers and rivers, must be moved to land with express authorization for such activities within six years of the entry into force of this law". Of course, the People's Party does not agree to take the contaminant companies out of our rivers and rivers. Here we see the extension of Ence; a real shame and, of course, a robbery to this country, executed from an absolute majority already lost, from a government in functions and by a fugitive and hidden president, who is escaping from their responsibility. A real shame, a real robbery and an unforgivable environmental crime. I hope, of course, that the Greek people will make him pay too much in the polls. What they've just done with Pontevedra's laugh is unforgivable, they're condemning Pontevedra's river to definitive death, and all the seafood and fishing activity to his death. You're responsible. In short, a land law that has little to go through because you have months left, and as soon as this law is not governed, it will change and we will protect our country from its urban aberrations by changing this law. But besides, this law doesn't solve the serious problem of Vigo. The amendment proposed by the People's Party in Article 134 was intended to be an empty check. There are alternatives, alternatives have been presented by the opposition, and their willingness to seek a solution. It was not possible in commission because PP only wants the check blank. We must give time to an agreement that gives rise to a Land Law that solves urban problems, the problems of the rural environment, the rustic soil and people, while developing a rational and sustainable urbanism. An urbanism that responds to the needs of our country, to the economic and social interests of our country, which guarantees the recovery of the rural environment, which is concerned about establishing an economy based on the richness of the rural environment and the indigenous solution. You don't, they don't, they don't, they don't; any industry is valid anywhere in rustic soil. I don't protect rivers and rivers, it's just the law of the strongest and it's using the territory for the great multinationals. We'll also look at it later on in that wonderful Water Law Project. You are not legislating or governing for the Greeks and for the Greeks, you are legislating for the economic powers, for the interests of the great multinationals, of the big companies. Then we look, well, what we have to look at. So, I think this law will last little, which will certainly not respond to the social and economic needs of this country, which is not concerned about recovering the rural environment, production, setting up rural-related industries, or establishing sea-related industries. So, I think the People's Party will be as dictatorial as it remains, it will continue to use its absolute majority to impose a Law of the ground which only responds to its own interests, and we will have to make another law within very little. That's why I'm saying we're not giving him a blank check. I think the amendment that BNG presented was a good solution. A solution that allowed Vigo to get out of this conflict that he has at the moment, but at the same time protected the territory of these great projects which the People's Party calls essential, interesting, of general interest, of economic interest, as it did with the Corcoesto mine. And what you want is a blank check so that all these activities can be authorized without a public exhibition. I suppose the ruling was that of the BNG by handing over this amendment as it was handed over to the commission, probably if it had been handed over to the People's Party in a way they would have accepted it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u8	Good morning to all of you. The bill drafted by the Government of the People's Party continues to be inspired by the model of liberalization, deregulation, which has caused effects that we all know. A model that was proven obsolete, inefficient, unsatisfied and failed. It has caused the effects of a large quantity of empty housing in this country, about 300,000 empty dwellings in Galicia; accelerated degradation of landscaped, environmental, natural, cultural, land values; rising housing prices, preventing access to housing to young people, to the most vulnerable population sectors; deterioration of the built heritage, the identity of cities and cities in Greece; massive indebtedness of middle and low classes in order to access decent housing; gradual reduction of the useful agricultural area, with the problem of the negative food balance that this country has; the explosion of the real estate bubble, which is at the root of the financial, economic and social crisis in this country. Furthermore, it is a law that for us is the twelfth amendment of the Louga and that is already to be re-modified before it even enters into force, before it is approved. We already want to use the improvisation on the march to always adapt the legislation that suits us at every moment, without having a strategic approach. It's a step further from the previous People's Party law, from an exhausted project, as if nothing had happened here. Here, for the People's Party there was no real estate bubble, no thousands of empty houses, no rural depopulation, no loss of useful agricultural surface, no urban corruption, etc. The desire to analyze these issues and to fight them should be at the heart of the reaction of a new Land Law to this country; they should be analysed all these aspects and have the will to change. But where is the analysis of these aspects of what was wrong?, of what was wrong to brake, in order not to be able to curb the expansion of cities when the city centers are becoming unpopulated?, when was the neglect and destruction of the built heritage? Where is the analysis of the degree achieved in the protection of heritage? Where is the analysis of where the surpluses generated by urbanism go, considering normal that 90% of the surpluses go to private? Faced with this, we in our amendments propose to change the model according to this analysis, and not act as automates for the effects of the explosion of the real estate bubble and this model. So in the partial amendments, being consistent with that, we start with one, which is the end of urbanism; urbanism ends which is a declaration of intentions later developed in the concrete amendments: One, "Ensure access to a decent and suitable housing for all citizens in a quality urban and rural environment," the right to the city. Guarantee the Community's participation in the surpluses generated by the urban action of public authorities. "Ensuring the equitable distribution of benefits and charges derived from the plan among the owners affected by it." To promote the real and effective participation of citizens in urban management and management, the right to the city and to the participation of people. This law continues to have the same philosophy of citizen participation as Franco's 1956 law. We have been rejected by an amendment of citizen participation, in which it was proposed that in the formulation of the corresponding urban plan or instrument in the procedure for the admission of the submission to the competent administration for its processing, "the citizen participation programme will be determined in the process of its elaboration, processing and approval." It means that citizens' participation in drafting these instruments must be from the moment of the formulation of the proposal, not after there is a proposal that citizens have to react; in the formulation of the generated plan of the planning instruments it must already be citizenship. You refused to accept this. They don't propose any instruments of participation in new citizenship, unlike what we've known. "Ensuring the rational and sustainable use of soil and natural resources, as well as infrastructure, supplies and real estate, for the benefit of the common good." "Impulse urban renewal and regeneration." This law is once again centered on the expansion of the city; there are no instruments in the law for the regeneration and rehabilitation of the city. We have also been rejected amendments that are intended to create, that the main instrument is rehabilitation, to curb expansion, with the consequent degradation of natural, cultural heritage, etc., which has been produced by this speculative model and prioritize rehabilitation and regeneration. Article 165b, Priority Urban Regeneration Areas: "They can receive funding from the fund" – a fund created for urban regeneration and renewal – "the urban areas that meet the status of special attention urban area, where it contains a general plan of municipal management adapted to the law, or Law 9/2002, of urban management and protection of the rural environment of Galicia. For the purposes of this law, it is understood by the urban area of special care the neighborhood or urban area territorially delimited by the municipal administration which includes more than 100 housing and is located in some of the following situations: A process of urban regression, such as the progressive degradation of building, the persistence of equipment deficits, or the insufficiency or lack of quality of organization, road networks, sanitation or public space. A demographic problem caused by the loss or aging of the population, or by too fast growth so that it can be assumed from the urban point of view of services," and so on. Urban rehabilitation and regeneration do not appear. It's true, we're not making anything up. There are autonomous communities where this already exists, where they pay attention to regeneration and rehabilitation, rejected by the People's Party. Other points for urban purposes: "Avoid speculation of soil and housing. To promote gender equality, taking into account the differences between women and men, particularly with regard to access and use of urban spaces, infrastructure and equipment. Avoid the presence in the territory of buildings, settlements executed at the edge of urban legality. To conserve, recover and improve air, water, natural spaces, biodiversity and, in general, adequate environmental conditions. And to improve the quality and functionality of the public space supply in the service of all citizens." But this bill has nothing to do with what we propose. It does not regulate urban rehabilitation and regeneration, it leaves without regulation the right to resettlement, empty housing, the urban regeneration program, the right to attempted and retract, and others. The soil classification criteria favour urban expansion, urbanizable soil, Article 23. After the definition of urbanizable soil, it expands to complete its urban structure; therefore, it is not necessary to open the path to discretion. Remove programming from urbanizable soil. It reduces protection in the rustic soil by eliminating land with values in competitors, including eco-friendly, agricultural, livestock, forest and landscape, and those who suffered a degradation of their values, that is, and just to put two examples: rustic forest protection soil. This law refers to the sectoral legislation and the neighboring mountains in common, and to the forest catalogue, a forest catalogue that does not exist. So, today, when this law comes into force, indigenous forests with values that would deserve protection, like the soils of agronomic aptitude, which are protected by this law, will come into force, because they also, once again, refer to a catalogue that does not exist. If this has been done when there are catalogues, and catalogues of soil protection quality that deserve such protection of a resource that is not renewable, well, but, if it does not exist, we are leaving large areas of land that are worthy of protection. It facilitates the reclassification of the rustic soil, although it meets the requirements to be classified as rustic, in Articles 29 and 30.5. Any rustic soil of ordinary or special protection can be reclassified simply by the justification of rational urban development. And what's that? Even if they have worthy values of protection! Reduces back protection, more than 50%. Exclude the native forests, as I said. In the protection of natural spaces, it excludes the natural spaces currently protected by the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan, such as the Ecological Corridor Network. In landscape protection it is dependent on the approval of the instruments provided for by the Landscape Law. Despite the eight years since the adoption of this law, the instruments that define the protection areas are not approved. In municipalities with plans not adapted to the 2002 Louga, the categories of previous planning are maintained, which is obsolete and does not protect the areas of natural space. Partial concentration, neighboring mountains and others. The uses allowed in rustic soil are the same for any type of soil, and in many cases they may be incompatible with each other and imply the degradation of the protection object values. For example, mining or large farms carried out in areas of special protection of natural, landscape, cultural, or forest plantations affecting high-quality land and agricultural productivity. It facilitates indiscriminate and dispersed construction throughout the rustic soil, reducing the minimum plot, etc. Buildings prior to May 25, 1975 may be extended and changed for use, including for residential use, in Article 36. Buildings with a license prior to the entry into force of the new law can also be extended and changed the use for which they were licensed for residential use. For example, an agricultural shed or an aquaculture vessel licensed in 2015 may be converted into residential use, a third transitional provision. In rustic soil, including the specially protected one, licences may be granted for weekends, such as uses of a sociocultural, recreational and bathroom nature, with a public or private character. We proposed that it be of a public nature only. Rejected the amendment. For individual or collective use, Article 31.1.d) Urban plots allowed in rural centres will involve the possibility of developing urban and real estate operations in rural areas, without provision for public appropriations and without participation by the Community in urban surpluses. The reduction in quality urban standards. We don't understand the difference between municipalities of more and less than 5,000 inhabitants. To the less than 5,000 inhabitants, they set standards of quality of life and social cohesion different from those with more than 5,000 inhabitants. We don't understand this discrimination. The standards of local systems of green zones and public equipment are removed in areas of tertiary and industrial use. Although reservations are made for the housing of public protection, it is exceptionally possible to reduce it to ridiculous amounts – in Article 38.9 – and insufficient. Changes in planning are allowed to increase the profit-making urban use without requiring the corresponding increase in reserves to necessary green areas and public allocations. Urban recoverys are allowed in consolidated urban soil without new public allocations. The reclassification of more than 20% is allowed, violating state law. This increase and exploitation is allowed up to 30% without increasing public and equipment supplies, that is, it is also a reduction, a way to reduce the quality standards and the Community's participation in surpluses. In short, it's a law that for us does not answer the central issues that we believe should have Galicia. We believe that it should be a law that analyzed how we're going to use this park of 320,000 empty dwellings, while every day we challenge people; how we're going to stop degrading spaces with high heritage, landscape, natural value, while in the center of towns and cities the built heritage is degraded. It should be a law that walked to a greater participation of the public's surpluses, which also walked towards greater social cohesion and the rights of the city, and, of course, a law that walked towards a greater participation of citizenship in the elaboration of these instruments. So it's a law that we consider will be ephemeral. The People's Party itself wants to modify it, once again resorting to improvisation, which will bring us further trouble in the future. Problems in the future that we will have to face all and all, but that instead take a few. So we maintain our opposition to the adoption of this law, which does not respond to the needs of a social majority, once again responds to the Popular Party's insistence on the same model that brought us the very serious problems that brought to this society the speculative urbanistic model. Therefore, our firmest opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day to all and all. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we want to start by saying that we understand that urbanism in Galicia is clearly not knowing whether it has died or in the ICU, but it is obvious, seeing the country and the problems resulting from the current legislation, that the People's Party cannot say that it represents urbanism or that it generates legal security, or that it protects the territory, or that it protects the identity behind how we occupy our territory, how we build, how we inhabit our country; that it is better what it has done and what it has consolidated was an absolutely disastrous urbanism. We have continued reforms and legal changes, so let's go that they're focusing on a clear legal insecurity. They are incapable of laying foundations that give urbanism back its social function, that is, an urbanism that thinks that there is a need for public services, that public housing is needed, that it is therefore necessary to plan the territory, that companies cannot be anywhere they want, but where the public authorities representing society decide what they have to be. Finally, an urbanism which also thinks that the country needs to have a future and that it needs to have planning in its basic sectors, in its industrial sectors, in its tertiary sectors and in the model on what cities develop. None of this has happened over the years. In fact, this mutant legislation we have now seen how it has only been able since 2002 to adapt 26.4% of the plans in force; that is, 75% of the municipalities do not have the planning adapted to the legislation of 2002. And we also see how a part of those who adapted them have many problems resulting from the legal insecurity, from the legislation and from the shuttles we have. In fact, the case of Vigo's judgment is an obvious case which reveals these problems, and neither does the Council of Galicia say anything about it. And it also seems to us that it is very serious that a case that may affect other municipalities because the Galician Union tells us that nothing happens and even that it does not recognize the lack of rigour that comes from when we analyze the case of Vigo. Because here comes the debate on the famous amendment that is introduced in relation to the Phoenicia. And I mean that all this time the real debate has been faked, because there wasn't only one proposal. There was a People's Group proposal to give you a solution to that problem, but there was also a BNG Group proposal, which says that at the moment the law already has predictions that allow you to solve the problems of Vigo urbanism, and not only the problems of Vigo urbanism, but also the other municipalities that can be expected to be affected by the same sentence as Vigo's. A proposal that meant recovering one of the predictions that already existed in the current legislation. So we don't understand why the PP has vetoed this possibility and what is hidden behind that amendment, that we say we do not accept, even if we do not veto its inclusion, because it will create more legal insecurity, because it does not foresee social participation processes, because it does not foresee the environmental assessment process and because it says that the municipalities have to take over the expropriations of any work without taking into account who is the promoter of that initiative. And so we see that there are obvious problems, there are no answers, there are no arguments from the council, and there is a possibility that the rest of the groups would accept. So we wonder what is behind that amendment, which, of course, we have very clear that it does not have to do with Vigo's specific problem, but it hides another kind of interest. In any case, the fact that this law before it is passed in this Parliament and before it comes into force will already have a reform planning on our heads, which makes it clear is the lack of rigour with which this law has been made. Because if you face a problem that appears you already see that this project that is being processed has no solutions to put and to avoid the problems arising from the annulment of a general plan, because it is the greatest evidence that this new Law of the soil is already born failed. It's really a law that's born dead. And we say it's a worse vision of current legislation; a law that will create more legal insecurity, because it's less clear and much more arbitrary; a law that deprotects our territory. We believe that there is already a level of aggression important enough to prevent a whole process of dismantling environmental and even heritage protection that existed in our country. In fact, the spirit of that law by Mr Aznar, the Liberalizer, which has brought such economic and environmental consequences, from a social point of view, is recovered here. Because the liberalization of the Land Law did not bring progress to the whole of society, which led to the destruction of a relevant part of the territory, the intensification of housing for those lower incomes and therefore a real social disaster. We think, moreover, that this law is a step back. We see how, for example, it recovers some predictions that we can't understand how stubborn and stubborn they are if they don't recognize the mistakes. For example, that suddenly all the neighboring mountains in common hand are again like forest protection soil, when that was already something that appeared in 2002 and had to be removed, because it left out of management many cemeteries, childhood schools, other kinds of uses that don't have to do with the forest. And they have to repeat these mistakes, for the only thing that proves is that this law has been made without taking into account the reality of this country or the experience of what has already failed. We understand, of course, that this law means a step back, that it remains unadapted to our country and that it does not meet any of the ten objectives that marked Galician Union when it presented this document to us. They said – I think Mr. Hernández must have been the first to present the document – that there were ten objectives: consensus, that no council had PXOM, to put an end to the fascist – that this is a theme that you have as if the problems of urbanism were this – stability, legal security, co-responsibility, security and effectiveness, administrative simplification, clarity and transparency. Well, the law we're dealing with is just the opposite of the goals of the Galician Union. So for us this is a real nonsense that today aims to consolidate the People's Party here in solitude. In any case, we present and keep alive amendments that what they want is to correct aspects, so that law has greater legal certainty, because we don't understand why those things that were working well in urbanism, that even managers and managers in the municipal field were positively valued, are eliminated from this law. We tabled amendments to protect the territory. For example, to recover the 200-metre strip from the coast; to protect the soil from agrarian vocation, which is one of the unanimous demands of the entire dairy sector, which is going through a very important crisis; to stop speculation. Let me here draw attention to what seems extremely serious to us: to remove restrictions on changing the classification of the ground when it's burned. Because, of course, it means using the fire to be able to speculate in the urban field. And this was a practice that has already had very serious consequences, and that's why legislation has changed. So also a step back in this area. And we present amendments that what they want is to promote the protection, rehabilitation of our territory or a compact model of cities or that respects traditional nuclei and parishes in our country. In that sense – it won't give me time to explain them all – but we did want to highlight some, as we do in article 23, in which we want to modify the legal regime of urbanizable soil in Galicia, which we believe this type of soil was what has been used for a long time to allow those urbanizations out of planning and without any sense. So that it is modified so that this urbanizable soil cannot be used to continue to occupy our territory in a disorderly and abusive way, that we avoid – as we said – such urbanizations or the generalization of golf courses in our country through this kind of instrument. We also believe it was important to modify the definitions that are made both of the rustic soil of special protection and of the different types of soil. It has already been commented here that deriving the protection or classification of the soil to some non-existent catalogues that will make Galician Union, because we believe it's an absolute nonsense. First, because these catalogues don't exist and so we're introducing legal insecurity about what it is or what it's not just rustic, forest soil or other types of soil that are defined there. Given the experience of this country, we have to tell ourselves that we have to believe that this is going to be done in a month, to ask ourselves for an act of faith, as we do not perform acts of faith, but believe in reality, it is very difficult for us to believe in that. And because, in addition, it means in some way eliminating the capacity of the municipalities themselves so they can define in their fields the classifications of different soils. We also believe it was important to change the sustainability limits. And we bet on modifying them to prevent them from occupying more surface, because we believe in a more compact city development model. In that sense, we also do not understand why in terms of quality of life and social cohesion, no changes are accepted that the only thing they wanted was to open the door to which we can do another kind of urbanism, for example, with peonalizations. There are some predictions about the number of parking lots in every 100 square meters that seem to us to be abusive and that go against those models that are, in addition to, example, like Pontevedra, which are betting on an important peonalization not only in historical helmets, but as an element of the city's vertebration, of occupation of the city from another perspective. We don't understand why we don't accept this amendment that we were proposing, either. We believe – as we said – that it is important in article 79 that they accepted our amendment, that the ban on conversion from rustic to urban is recovered when they suffered from fires. And, therefore, here are a number of amendments that we have tabled, which are going in the sense of protecting the rustic soil, which we believe is very unprotected in this bill. Or we also presented some amendments that were intended to address problems related to speculation or problems that the municipalities have, such as the mandatory expropriation by the ministry of the law, which for many municipalities is now already assuming a disbursement of many resources and of many millions of euros in a context of economic crisis, and which have to expropriate part of the land that is intended for financial uses when they are not going to be able to develop them immediately. And we don't understand why neither from the People's Party do we want to address an issue that is creating important problems in municipal management and that will also create them for the future. And finally, we would also like to mention Amendment No. 88 of our group, in which we included a new derogatory provision, in which we want to repeal the sectoral project for the industrial settlement of Lourizán, in Pontevedra; that is, this instrument, which has already been declared illegal by law, the instrument that has tried to use the People's Party to consolidate Ence and change the classification of the soil that currently has its general plan. We understand that the Galician Union, first of all, used how legally this procedure was said improperly, which was to skip the legality to try to further consolidate Ence in its placement, without taking into account what the classification of that soil was. And we understand that the derogation from this project is required to comply with the sentence. But also because we clearly defend that Ence has to get out of Pontevedra, because it is incompatible with a sustainable development of that river and even with the possibility of being able to modify a forest model, which is clearly creating many problems in our country and which has important derivatives not only as far as forest fires are concerned, but also preventing the multifunctionality of our mountain from developing and creating much more wealth. Finally, we continue to maintain amendments that question the substance of this law, which wanted to make some changes so that at least the biggest problems we see that will generate this law will be corrected. Even in some cases what we proposed was simply not to change what was currently in effect, and therefore even recovering some editorials that were already in the current legislation. And we don't understand that the People's Party because in a hurry and even without meeting the demand that we made that there had been another process of social participation again, to listen once we know the final project and the amendments to different social sectors, which comes here alone to adopt a new law that in practice is a reduced version of the current but worse law, because it protects the territory much more and introduces liberalizing elements that we're going to see that they're going to be negative from an environmental, social and economic point of view. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Very good days, too, to the two advisors who accompany us today in the Chamber. The final adoption of the text of the Land Law comes to this Parliamentary plenary today. There are no great inconsistencies about the result of the vote whenever the absolute majority of the People's Party enjoys ensures that approval. But regardless of whether 41 votes are more than 34, and therefore that majority is mathematically assured, the reasons are also important. It's not only important to vote and have more votes, it's also important to have more reasons, and that's what doesn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, a seven-year process culminates here: five years was the time it took the Government of Galician Union to convert that draft into a draft law to bring it to this Parliament; and three months is the time it is given to this Parliament to process this bill and to debate it. Last November 24 we discussed in this plenary the amendments to the whole, amendments that were discarded by the absolute majority of the People's Party, and on that very day, ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for the submission of amendments to the articulated. The P.O., meeting over a month, between December 13th and January 15th, had to process and resolve the three hundred allegations made to the articulated. We've been studying allegations by claim and article by article, that's quite true, but in an absolutely accurate and limited time. That's what the People's Party representative told us: that the Phoenicia should complete its work around January 15, because this February month had to pass the bill and become law. No one has explained to us what were the reasons for these so-survived and so-specified emergencies after seven years, or why this Parliament only had three months, including the month of Christmas, about the same time as it was made available to the Economic and Social Council. I believe that this procedure speaks well of the importance which the People's Party attaches to Parliament and the respect it has for Parliament. She said the Counsellor here in the defence and opposition to the amendments to the whole last November 24, and I'm going to read literally, "From the first moment we've been aware that it was to be a law developed with the greatest possible consensus... only in this way will we be able to achieve its objective, which is only to give stability, so necessary, for the sustainable development of our autonomous community." Totally according to this. Unfortunately, these and their facts are totally contradictory, and we have to give them preference and prevalence to the facts. But then we must suppose that everything you told us, Counselor, wasn't true, was a lie directly; there was no such interest in that context, they were no more than words, neither was consensus sought nor stability pursued. I don't know exactly what the ends of the council and the Galician board are in pursuit of when they deal with this amendment of the Land Law, but I'm afraid that they refer to much more prosaic reasons, much more immediate than those expressed to us here. In this sense, I have to assume on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group a solemn commitment, which is to substantially amend this law if it is our responsibility to govern or to the extent that we have that responsibility to govern; this law will be repealed and replaced on an immediate and priority basis. I have to say more, ladies and gentlemen: this is the fourth law of Galician soil and it is the worst of all. And you know why? Because each of the three previous laws has made progress with respect to the previous one. The 1985 law made progress with regard to the previous situation, the 1997 law made progress with regard to 85 and the 2002 law made progress with regard to the 97 law. This law took us 20 years ago. It took us 20 years ago, more than the law of 2002, more than the law of 1997 and in some ways even more than the law of 1985. This is a cut, devalued and impoverished version of the law that we have so far in force. So we understand that it would be much more sensible, much more useful for our community to leave what we have to deal with this change. I'm going to talk about an aspect which is currently being changed, which is the one referred to in article 144 of the law, which may motivate the greatest record of punctual modification of a law, which is likely to be modified before it comes into force. So this law, which pursues stability as a fundamental objective, will be the law that will change faster than any that has approved the Autonomous Community of Galicia. See that they have hard records to overcome, because this law will overcome them all! Look, with the law of 1985 this procedure was not necessary, because we could accept the derogation procedure provided for in the Land Law; with the law of 1997 this was not necessary, because we could accept Article 182 and the exception procedure of the Land Law; and with the law currently in force would not be necessary, because with Article 198(2) we could solve the problem raised by the annulment of the General Plan of Vigo. We must therefore immediately amend this law. And by the way, we will vote in favour of the inclusion of the amendment made by the People's Party if that amendment is put to the vote by this chamber, because we understand that the fact that this is a disaster doesn't mean that that responsibility, that guilt and the price of it must be paid by citizens, by Vigo's or by any other point in Galicia. But the truth is it's the efficiency itself, the very shortening obsession of the board that generates a problem, for which we now have to look for a formula of resolution. All life in the laws of the ground, including that of the State of 1956, all the actions declared of general interest were subject to an emergency procedure that prevented them from being paralyzed by urban planning. Ladies and gentlemen, from this parliamentary group, when the amendments were presented to the whole, we made seven basic considerations, which were the ones that led us to request the withdrawal of the bill. This was rejected by this House, and in development of these seven basic considerations, we presented 63 amendments to the articulate, in which the content was accurately framed and these seven considerations developed. I have to tell you that of the 63 amendments tabled by the Socialist Group, 5 have been admitted as a whole, 10 have given rise to transactions, 3 we have withdrawn them ourselves and 45 remain, which are rejected. Our group, in an effort to contribute and collaborate for the improvement of the law, accepted all transactions, regardless of whether in the vote we will have to abstain in two of them, because the content of transactions, if it is true that it improves the content of the law, is so insufficient that we ourselves cannot assume it. There are, therefore, two transactions on which we will abstain, which are those referred to in Amendment No 4, Rules of interpretation, and Rule 56, referred to in Article 143, which is the one referred to in the procedure of the licences granted to the previous communication regime. Of the 45 rejected I won't have time nor will it be the object of this full explanation in detail, but if I would like to make reference to any. For example, number 15, which refers to the protection of the rustic soil of agricultural protection. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the text of article 30 of the law, the rustic soil of agricultural protection is one, the one, protected in parishes with a partial concentration approved by a firm resolution or two, where there is a catalogue approved by the corresponding councillor. That catalog has already been said here that there is no one; therefore, zero only protected. And parishes with partial concentration with firm resolution are 750 over the 3,778 parishes in Galicia. It means that, according to the text of this law, 3,028 parishes in Galicia could be left without a single square meter of soil protected for agricultural activity, because there is no catalogue, and there is no partial concentration approved by firm resolution. And then it was said that one of the goals is to protect that 93% of Galician soil. Will you tell me what it looks like? Another similar amendment is number 16, which refers to the forest protection ground, where the same applies again: forest protection soil included in that catalogue. Where's the catalogue? Synchronising folder failed: %s: %s Therefore, it could happen that no forest protection area in Galicia had been protected. But we're going to go on. You could speak of Amendment No 31, referred to in Article 39 of the Act, where we ask that service providers in areas covered by a special protection plan are obliged to bury these infrastructures. Why don't you accept that amendment, what's the problem? Or do we all like to see in the historical areas all the electrical installations by the facades of the houses?, does that seem reasonable? I don't think so, but you don't accept that amendment. Since Amendment No 42 is not accepted, which is referred to as the one where the general plan to increase the edificability of an area is modified, that increase in edificibility has to be offset by an increase in public appropriations, and that is not accepted. In other words, the law opens the way for the plan to be changed, to be modified and extended to buildability, but not necessarily to have to have more public equipment and equipment. That's for the general interest. Or number 43, which also says, "If the modification of urban plans affects lands qualified as green areas or public free spaces, their approval will require the previous report of the Supreme Council of Urbanism of Galicia." Why is this suppressed? What do we want, to open the way for green areas to re-align without anyone having to take responsibility for that re-alignment? Or number 44, where it is directly prohibited that a timely modification of urban planning will directly turn rustic soil into urbanizable soil. That's not acceptable. By the way, they were themes that are contained in the current law and that are deleted and cut from the current law. Or number 37, and this is something I want to talk about, which is the municipal basic plans. Here was a big lie, Counselor: you committed yourself to the presentation of the draft that was a mistake and that the municipalities would be enabled to make the municipal basic plans. In a rural municipality, and I put as an example Chardrexa de Queixa, Navia de Suanna, Larouco or Vilarino de Conso, which are municipalities where you might make a home every three years, how will you demand to make the general plan the same requirements, and set an example, that the Vigo Town Hall, with a rural where 70,000 people live and where there is a powerful demand? How foolish that is! Those municipalities are never going to make their general plan because it makes no sense, and it's a completely fired demand. And why do you want to revoke municipal competition in urban matters, take it, if you don't have the capacity to develop it? Counsellor, how many integrated territorial plans – which is the figure you should develop, for example, the Territorial Management Guidelines – have you made Joine these five years? Zero; he hasn't done any, nor has he got any in processing. So your nose wants to take your skills off 200 Town Councils? Why don't they make it easier for these municipalities to make their basic plan, which is much better if they have a basic plan that they don't have any plans? And when, in addition, the demand that there is no municipality itself doesn't require a plan with a detailed sorting of 100 rural nuclei you can have, when perhaps they only make one house every four years. Don't you realize that's bullshit? In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to maintain our negative vote, because we believe that this law is a severe setback on the previous situation, because we believe that this law does not solve any of the problems that it theoretically came to solve, nor will it give greater stability, nor is it greater guarantee of legal certainty or greater agility, nor will it get all the municipalities of Galicia to have a general plan, nor will it protect the rustic soil, nor will it protect anything at all. This law, ladies and gentlemen, we are very afraid that with its discharge of demands it has only one objective, that is to allow certain actions arising in recent years to be legalized, and that you don't know how to find them a legal fit. Once you've met your goal, I'll give you the fact that in the next few months this law will be changed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u13	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u14	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellors, Counsellors, Mr. President. First of all, I wanted to start with a thank you. A thank you to all the colleagues in the P.P.P., for the work that has been done there – I think it is rigorous – and participation, free of struggles – has to be said – with contributions, and there was thought to be interesting contributions, of which I will then speak. And also, like, a special thanks to the House staff, especially to the legal adviser who accompanied us and, in her name, to the rest of the staff, who sometimes in the shadow but did a job, I would say it was huge; so I wanted it to be gathered in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before a law that has been commented here by several speakers, almost by all, as it was a project that would approve the People's Party in solitude –din – that was not debated, that they would ask for more time to debate. And I would like to remind you of a question that is there and that can be demonstrated. First of all, the People's Party will not approve it in solitary, we will approve it and vote in favour of the People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group, with the support of many Greeks and Greeks, and also with participation in this bill that we are now going to approve, convert into law, of many collectives of all kinds, and many people who have intervened from the very first moment in the drafting of this bill, to whom we thank for their contributions, from professional schools, trade unions, individuals, etc. Because it was so, Mr. Bugallo and the spokesmen of the other opposition groups. [[Applause]] First of all, a draft has been drafted, which was for a mandate from this Parliament that has been asked to amend and a new law has been made. Yes, we unanimously agreed on that. And from there a draft is drawn up, we have created a non-permanent commission to debate the new bill. Thirty-two people representing different groups or individual groups, proposed by the four groups that we wanted to participate in that commission at that time, and which, unanimously, reached an agreement of the participants. Thirty-two people who gave their opinion, and which was largely collected – not all, is impossible because there were even conflicting opinions – but were collected in that bill that later came to Parliament. It must also be said that 80% of the contributions to the bill that the various collectives and professional colleges have made to themselves were collected in the bill. So when you say it's an unconsensual project, what more did you want? The consensus with citizenship, the consensus with people, with the Greeks and with the Greeks. Another thing is the demagogy and partisan interest that some political groups do. Because look, Mr. Bugallo, and I've told you once, and I know that you had all the best intention in the world, and we probably already know what happens: you've been told that you have to go around here and give your opinion, but it's reality. And you know that the statement that was made of the outcome of that commission – it was said in the spring of 2014, there in April, if I am not mistaken – was practically so consistent with the People's Party that we told you to admit it to it in full, and you withdrew it so that we wouldn't approve it, so that we wouldn't admit it. Because after a call, we know what happened... and we know how parties work, especially theirs, which says the same thing against it, always putting party interests ahead of the interests of the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] Look, there's a clear theme, and that's also undeniable: the work that was done in the P.P., and there I say I appreciate the contribution of all the participants and all the groups, and the result is that 79 amendments were approved, whether accepted, either in whole or traded, 45 of the opposition. You're looking for some law that you'd made to see if there was any similar situation. There wasn't. It is true that we said there were some deadlines, because we wanted to try to get the law out as soon as possible, but there was no limitation on the number of meetings in the Phoenician Parliament, no limitation on the duration of any of those meetings. It's more, you have to say it once, and that's between us: they're asking for oxygen. Because they said, "Man, they're so many, I've got something to do tomorrow or I've got an election campaign to do. We have to say that, too. But don't tell me there were no opportunities to debate everything that was loved there. Amendment of the People's Party to article 144. That brings a lot of queue, indeed, a lot of debate, and I don't want you to devert what is the content of the law itself, but we have to say it too, because all the groups have said it. Mr. Bugallo, spokesmen of the opposition, Mr. Anton Sánchez, indeed, the People's Party tabled an amendment, we knew it was already out of date, because the problem of Vigo, of the general plans, arose after the processing period of the closed amendments. There is only one possibility, which is the unanimous admission of the procedure of all the groups participating in the Phoenicia, and so we consider it, twice in the presentation and one in the commission. And today I want to repeat it and make the offer at this plenary session of the Galician Parliament; we are still faced with the possibility of solving this problem in this law. And you're telling me that Article 198 of the current law can be resolved. But if Article 198 of the current law does not foresee any participation, nor does it take account of the binding report of the municipalities, it is practically... Look, the amendment of the People's Party that is being made is much of Article 198 of the current law, increasing the participation of the municipalities, with a binding report. This is not only for the Vigo Town Hall, it includes the problem and the question that the Vigo Town Hall has now, but it is made to think of all the municipalities of Galicia, the 314 municipalities. And it's very clear, and there's nothing but reading it. I invite you to read Article 198, to read the declaration of supramunipality and to read the amendment of the People's Party. Much more participatory is the amendment of the People's Party, much wider and much more up-to-date, why? Because we understand that they are the municipalities affected where this project is going to be developed, a project that has to be of urgency or of exceptional public interest. It's not worth anything, it's not a joke or much less. They have to be urgent or exceptional public interest, and that must be justified, of course. And in that they have involvement binding the municipalities with their report, where, if the county report is negative, if you automatically give up that project. Article 198, Mrs. Pontón, it's not like that. If the council makes a negative report, the Board of the Board or the Administration acting may proceed forward. That's tax. You bet on taxation instead of dialogue between administrations, which is what we propose ourselves. It's so clear. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Question of supramunipality. Actually, it could be a situation. But the question of supermunicipality, man!, saying that this is urgent or of exceptional interest, is used for other things too, therefore, I am not worth it. We are in a case similar to the previous one, also directly from the current administration can decree it, including the opposite report of the Town Councils. And besides, instead of urgency, we're talking at least 24 months, and we can even easily go to two and a half years or more; that for certain projects that are considered urgent, difficult, difficult to understand. So we continue to make the offer there and remind Mr. Bugallo that, man!, I think Vigo's problem didn't create it at the current People's Party meeting. Vigo's problem comes from a report, or rather from a non-report, from the Bipartite and an adoption of a general plan from the Mayor of Vigo, who – I know – is socialist. So, Mr. Bugallo, let's be serious, Vigo's problem was created by the mayor of Vigo and the Bipartite, and now is the People's Party in readiness and offering to solve it. Why? Because we understand that administrations have to collaborate. And why? Because, fortunately, Galicia has a stable government. with sufficient parliamentary support and with support from the Greeks to be able to solve the problems of general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, not the problems of the interests of the mayor of Vigo or AGE or other gentlemen, but the problems and situations that represent Galicia's general interest. And for that, fortunately – as I say – we have a president who can clearly distinguish between the interests of the Greeks and the partisan interests, and we have a stable government, with enough support to carry it out. [[Applause]] The law we bring the debate here today has many challenges, but I'm going to mention only a few. Of course, no council without PXOM; a rural living in a Galician that we want it to be prosperous; no building unending; a bet to value the built heritage, with a clear bet for rehabilitation and those out of management – I will tell Mr. Anton Sánchez if I have time. And, of course, administrative simplification, change of the development model to a much more sustainable model, clearly oriented towards rehabilitation, renewal and urban regeneration; and here it is even endorsed by the ESC report. And the introduction, of course, of the Autonomic Basic Plan, which will lead us to have a regulation. Because, ladies, there's no worse deprotection than having none. And right now 73% – Ana Pontón said it was 75% – of Galicia's territory is out of planning or no plan of any kind. By the way, among them is the Town Hall of Pontevedra. [[Murmurs.]] Approved the General Plan in 1989, curiously with the vote against the current mayor, being the conchler; and, curiously, he did not adapt it to the law nor rehabilitated it nor did he do anything or foresee a revision because it was as good as he was, even though he voted against it. I'm convinced that today's law that will vote against will also apply to them if they happen to rule. Why? Because it is a law, lords – Mr Bugallo – that continues to advance in the improvement of Galician urbanism. Yes! If you read the Parliamentary debate of Law 9 of 2002 and see the opinion of the Socialist Party, which you now say is better and has been improving – and indeed, it was better than before –, this one is convinced that it is better and that we are improving the year 2002. [[Murmurs.]] If you reread the debate, you will see that you said the same thing and actually voted against that law that now says it was wonderful. But that is the reality of the opposition parties, and especially sometimes the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] Look, we have very clear what the targets are, and the targets are that we have to change the model of rural nuclei, yes. It's because rural nuclei have the right to develop, because people have the right to live in rural areas and they have the right to logically have the potential for the development of nuclei. That's why the model, both traditional core and common core, is changed. Why? Because it will be possible to maintain and expand in those areas that really require it, and where mayors and municipalities say in their general plans. You said, Mr. Bugallo, that of the Municipal Basic Plan. Any council, look... to begin with, I'm telling you that Navia has its core and even has an industrial polygon, which in a basic plan could not be made certain developments in Navia. But, regardless of that, any council – whether Navia or another – can logically ask to make a plan. And if you make a minimal plan, a plan where there's only urban soil and the nuclei, I can assure you that the content of a basic plan has been practically being made and that there's going to be a processing, of course, much more agile. Why? Because one of the issues raised in this law is precisely the axillization of proceedings. Why? Because all the procedures that have been carried out since the Board, with only one procedure, by presenting it at the appropriate board, will take care of it in three months of all preceptive reports being resolved, and that's going to work. And, of course, let's hope that this will serve as a trigger so that also in state legislation they go along the same line. Why? Because it's agitating. And there are people who ask and you don't know if you want more municipal autonomy or less. We have this clear: the municipalities are older and therefore must participate actively in urbanism. And that's why, of four licenses that can now give, four different uses and types of licenses, they're going to be able to give fourteen, and that's administrative simplification. The current model is clear, the model that we put forward is also very clear: it bets on rehabilitation, it bets on the value of the built heritage. Why? Because it's important that when you make a new plan... and this was the paralyzing of many municipalities, including Monforte or others, that they couldn't move forward with their general plans. Why? Because half the council was out of order, and that was a decrease in the value of the heritage of all the neighbors, and also of the Greeks, without need. So now it is very clear article 86, where it clearly says that those buildings that are invading vials, that are invading green areas or for equipment; and, of course, all those who are in addition to the council consider appropriate for not adapting to the new planning. Now, the one who doesn't fully adapt to the new planning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u16	... – Finished already, Mr. President – imagine that in a street four plants will be allowed and there is a five or two building – because it was given, in addition, with a license, with the regulations that allowed it at that time. That building, if the rest of it adapts and doesn't invade either public way or other things, it will remain in the management. Why? Because the neighbors and owners of these dwellings, those who bought those dwellings, don't have to suffer a decline in their value, and they can still do the necessary works. As an example – and finished, Mr. President – look, in Lugo, just a change of slope on the deck, from 33 degrees to 30 degrees, left half a Place out of management. This has no way, and this law comes to solve not only that problem, but many others who unfortunately don't give me time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u18	...to explain but which comes to resolve clearly. And they're problems that our neighbours, the Greeks and the Greeks have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u19	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments maintained by the other groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u20	Well, I announce support for the amendments to the opposition. I believe that in one way or another, with drafting or with another, all the amendments to the opposition sought, to begin with, to give legal security to the Greek urbanism, the protection of the rustic soil – as the spokespersons of all groups defended in their exhibition – to ensure a sustainable development of the rural environment – to explain the danger of this freedom of installation of industries in rural areas – to guarantee the right to housing – something that is not guaranteed, the right to housing, the right to expropriate housing is guaranteed, but not the right to real estate of people to live. They also seek the protection of cultural and natural heritage; the protection of land of agricultural production and forest production, as well as the protection and recovery of our rivers and rivers, which this law is not that it does not protect, is that it already protects from all our rivers, our rivers and our mountains. So it seems to us that everything it collects and all the lack of protection this law entails is serious. We all also focus on the need for citizen participation in urban plans, because we believe that it is the citizenship that you have to define which territorial model you want, the model of urban development you want, and you don't listen to society. He said the spokesperson for the People's Party who collected 80% of the organizational and technical amendments they took part. So we don't understand all the criticisms that exist from social, agricultural and trade union organizations against this bill. I understand that the People's Party sometimes confuses quantity with quality, and it's not so much of the amendments that are accepted but the quality of the amendments that are accepted and traded. Because many times what you do is you rely on an amendment to make a transaction that really doesn't change, but that the opposition agrees because it improves the bad text that the People's Party had already made from the beginning. Also because all the opposition in its amendments seeks urbanism for people, based on people, who respond to Galicia's territorial and population singularities. With regard to the BNG's derogatory provision, we think it's very important. In our amendment, what we put in was a period of six years to transfer these contaminants – and we are not talking about all of them, but of those that are especially contaminants – that are located in our rivers and our rivers, on the shore, polluting. They move in six months, and slowly move the rest of the industries to other areas that have permission for their installation, and can thus recover, both landscaped and economically, our rivers and our rivers. We will also support the amendments and support the criticism that this law is a reversal that goes against a sustainable future that focuses on people and on people-to-people coexistence, building, leisure, protecting their heritage, economic and social development and protecting the soils of rustics, rivers and rivers. The spokesperson for the People's Party said that out of the 79 amendments that were accepted, 47 were from the opposition, but none of these accepted amendments really affected the most important part of the law, although they were improving the drafting. To finish, it's almost like, I don't know, a little ridiculous the reference to the debate that took place during Christmas, between December 15 and January 15, come to say that the opposition we complained about was a lot of meetings. Obviously, I, if I had the government who passed the project to me and told me what to say, I wouldn't have to smash my head so much. And it's not the same as having a group with 41 than a group with 3, with 7 or with 12. Obviously, work accumulates more and fewer people, and I understand it's not a weapon to use. What if it's a weapon to use is why the People's Party, after five years drafting this bill, is in such a hurry to wind it up in a month...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u21	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u22	...no more participation in society as requested. So we're going to vote in favour of the amendments to the opposition, and we think that the People's Party still has an opportunity today to withdraw this bill and move forward in negotiating a bill that has the consensus of the whole society. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u24	Good morning. Mr. Castineira, we have the freedom that gives us not to have dependencies of certain interests. We have the freedom that we were not responsible for the situation of urbanism in Galicia and for the situation of urbanism in Vigo. And we defend values, and that's more than just proclaim them. Because here we all proclaim them, but at the time of truth, when these values have to be realized, here everyone escapes. We are immune to the pressures and to the screen political operations that you are doing with the modification of article 144. We don't have the speakers you have, we don't have them, but you're doing a political operation that has little to do with protecting the work of Citroën employees. It's a shameful operation, which wants to continue on the road you've been running in this country's urbanism for many years. And we say no, we're going to exercise our right to say no, because we don't want to go into their way of urbanism in this country or politics, they're lying. We do not have the possibility, as you have, to give a debate that lets us expose our arguments, systematically concealed, because it is interested in pressing, interested in seeking an scapegoat, interested in circumventing the responsibilities of those who are responsible for Vigo and the rest of the country. That's what matters. But we're not afraid of them, we're immune to these pressures because we have values and we defend them, Mr. Castineira. And what rigour does the People's Party have when it talks about these things? Great rigor! He said sectoral projects of supramunicipal incidence last at least 24 months. Mr. Castineira, Road Furniture City: Sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence adopted at the Board of Directors on 15 April 2010; final approval on 24 of 2 of 2011, 10 months, with two months of public exposure. But what are you telling me, Mr. Castineira?, who do you think you're talking to?, who do you think you're talking to? Ten months, with two months of public exposure. And you just said here that the sectoral reports of the Galician Board, with the new law, a general plan, will be evacuated in three months. So, from a sectoral project, much less, Mr. Castineira. You've had the tool there, and it's been a two-month waste of time. We talk to Citroën's workers, to Citroën's management, and they have nothing to do with the operation that you're arming to try to find scapegoats, to try to put a screen on what they really want. We're not talking about Vigo's problems, this isn't restricted to Vigo, they don't lie to citizenship. This is an instrument that will apply to the 314 municipalities of the country; an instrument in which public participation is eluded, the possibility that citizens, any citizen, may make claims to an instrument, as much as it is promoted by a public administration. It's a constitutional right, and we defend it as a right, but above all, it's legal insecurity. You know they just suspended the temporary urban planning of Barriers for not including a process of public participation, and you want to mess us up for the future; because you, yes, are improvising continuously. Eleven changes to the law, adapting it to sentences and without having a strategic plan. You also circumvent the environmental process, precisely what caused the annulment of Vigo's Municipal Management Plan, and you also want to circumvent it. This isn't serious, Mr. Castineira, it's not serious. You say what you want, you do the advertising campaign what you want, but you're not going to drag us into your position, which led to the urban situation of this country's municipalities. You're saying this law will solve that 75% of this country's territory is out of plan. So, you know what they did? Did you rule two years in this country or what? What have they done these years? What did you do in the 27 years you were in the Government, which we don't have a catalogue for forest protection or a protection catalogue for agricultural soils? What have you guys done that they haven't done a territorial planning plan? What did you guys do then? And they come here to teach the others, don't they? You say you do have a bet for rehabilitation and regeneration, and you talked about the Management Forum. Go for God's sake, if that's the bet! There is no article dedicated to rehabilitation and urban regeneration, Mr. Castineira, not one! And they rejected our proposal to make a fund for regeneration and to have some criteria in those areas that need to implement a plan of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u26	...urban regeneration. It's an existing problem. That doesn't concern you, the continuing improvisation and the continuing defense of certain interests, as demonstrated also in the extension of Ence, which made it very clear to you that it is your priority. For you, the priority in this law is not to reduce the loss of useful agricultural land; it is not to reduce the destruction of the built heritage; it is not to reduce the census of empty dwellings; for you, it is to deprotect the rustic soil of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u28	You're talking about the countryside. Did the rural problem turn out to be the Land Law, Mr. Castineira? Look at the data left by you of the depopulation and ageing of rural areas, of the abandonment of agricultural activity that you leave: 25,000 jobs of agricultural activity destroyed since Mr Feijóo's rule; 35% of agricultural employment, Mr Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u29	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u30	Doesn't that have to do with the destruction of the countryside?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u31	Finish, Mr Sánchez, and pronounce yourself on the amendments of the other groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. We will support the amendments of the opposition parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I want to say that I welcome the intervention of the People's Party with great satisfaction because what it shows is that it arrives at this debate without any kind of argument, and it must even resort to the fallacy in trying to draw the opinions and proposals of others. Firstly, participation in the committee. I believe that here in Parliament we are represented five parliamentary groups, only the People's Party will approve it, but now we are in an innovation in which the PP says it does not approve it alone. Well, in this Parliament you are going to pass this land law the PP alone, without the support of any of the opposition groups, which we are also here because the citizens vote for us. Because those who don't vote for the People's Party are also citizens and their opinion must be heard. And it's clear that in this debate there is a position, which is needed from the outset by the PP, which sets a simulation of participation. And I'm going to say why it's a simulation of participation. Because yes, we had a commission. We had a commission which was approved solely and exclusively by the PP; where they did not want to incorporate proposals that were not on the line and in the direction of a draft which was already the basis of that commission, which did the work backwards. No diagnosis was made of the problems, no analysis was made of which were the errors of the law and then they started working on the law. They came with a law made and they wanted in that committee procedure what we did was to praise a process that started backwards and that, in fact, it was never a participatory process; because, as I say, when one has already concluded, participation ceases to have any kind of value, and that is what is seen in this bill. It's more, even in the processing, there were issues that you got worse. Because at first they were talking about some autonomic plans, and some local plans, which didn't have to have the same size as a general plan, for those smaller municipalities, which were not linked to an autonomic plan, but actually there was a capacity to act from the municipal level. Here we are now inventing a basic plan, which we believe will be another disaster. Because what is the time frame for drawing up that basic plan? What are you going to have? Are you going to serve the municipal administration of all the municipalities of this country as a whole? The truth is, to us, seeing the background of urbanism seems to us to be a real nonsense. I am also sorry that the spokesperson of the People's Party has to resort to falsehood in order to try to disqualify the proposals that we are bringing about, for example, in relation to the content of Article 198 of the Louga, which you believe is an allegation against dialogue. In the law that approved the PP, let's say if there's a prediction there that, if you want to safeguard that you have instruments to act when a general plan falls, let's put the content in the current law, which is much more secure than you are proposing to us. Why? First, because it also foresees municipal participation. If you go and see the content of this article, you will see that when there are projects of special interest, and for reasons of urgency that are not in the planning, the advisor may refer a project to the county, which will have a month to tell whether it is in conformity or inconformity. If there is no conformity, this would have to go to the report to the Higher Committee on Urbanism, which initiates the procedure of amendment or revision as laid down in the law, not creating a specific process, which is what you want to do in Article 144, which has ponds. First, because in ten days a council can't make a report rigorously. Secondly, because no public information processes or environmental information processes are envisaged. Thirdly, because you say that in all the procedures that take place on that path, you have to finance expropriations. It seems to us that it doesn't make any sense, that it will generate more legal insecurity and that it's a problem. We also tell you, if you are not worth this, and there are specific plans of Vigo that need a solution, a specific solution is made for those plans, but no attempt is made to make a change in this range from the back door. In any case – as I said – the fact that you present a law to us that before birth it is seen that it emerges with important deficiencies... because indeed the PP could not know that Vigo's plan was going to be annulled. But it's not the first case in which a general plan is annulled, and therefore there are problems because there are out-of-order actions or because, indeed, because of needs that can be lawful, they don't have to be illegal, there are works that need to be done. Well, it's clear that the law so strict here that the PP does not predict these situations that are common in urbanism, and it's the best example of how you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u36	...they come here unhindered, with a law that worsens the current one and it's going to be a disaster. And a law, lords and ladies of the PP, which is born dead, because we also join that proposal and say very clearly that this law, on which it depends on the Nationalist Block of Galicia in the next legislation, will be modified by another that actually feels the basis of urbanism at the service of the country, at the service of the interests of the social majority, not to the service of the interests of the constructors or of large polluting companies. I'd like to, Mr. Castineira, if you're all right, to tell us why you're against eliminating and derogating the Plan of Sub-Municipal Incidence of Ence, which was another hit more of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u37	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u38	...to continue to maintain that contaminating company and mortgage our future. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u39	About the amendments of the other groups, Mrs. Pontón?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u40	As in the committee, we shall vote in favour of all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u41	Thank you, thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u42	Thank you very much again, Mr President. First of all, two things I have to tell Mr. Castineira. One I told her at the commission, but before or before I forgot or didn't give me time. The other day I read an interview with Mrs. Counselor who was talking about the end of "you're going to do." It is good that a political leader of the People's Party, who ruled Galicia – no discrepancy in the data given by the representative of AGE – 29 of the 35 years of autonomy that we have been leading, and who has been ruling in more than 200 municipalities in Galicia continuously since 1979 – I repeat, 35 years later – tells us that what prevails is "you going to do". But, indeed, the People's Party has nothing to do with it. That happens in Galicia the same way it rains. Chove, what are we gonna do to him! Well, you're gonna do it. What are we gonna do to him! The People's Party has no responsibility in everything that happens in our country or in the situation that happens in our country, or in everything else. Mr. Castineira, I have to thank you for that embrace that gives me all the time, but it's bear hugs. In fact, it's always better a hug than a kick, but really its object is nothing affectionate or exactly benefactor. And I'm going to try to explain again what happened in connection with our proposal when the draft law was introduced. We presented eight basic considerations at that time. There was only one in the law text that is correct, which is the Sorting Forum. It was quite well corrected in article 86 of the law, and it was improved through the transaction which is now incorporated in relation to settlements arising out of the margin of planning. I think that stays reasonably well. But of the eight questions, Your Honor, there are five that are unresolved at all, and others are solved in a very bad way. I'll give you an example. We said that protection of the rustic soils of special protection was lost, and you formally incorporate it into the text of the law, but circumscribed it – I said before – to the soils where there was partial concentration – and in 80% of Galician parishes there has been – and to the soils that are in a catalogue that does not exist. And what about forest protection? Same thing. It is reduced to the soils of the mountains of common hand and to the soils of a catalogue which do not exist either. What about the multiple municipalities of Galicia where there are no common hands alone? Are there no more forest protection there? How is that possible? So you formally say yes, but it's actually so decaffeinated that you have to understand that you don't. I'm also going to talk about the Vigo General Plan, article 144, etc. Look, Vigo's General Plan is a general plan that was formulated by proposal from a mayor of the BNG who was Lois Pérez Castrillo. He was basically treated with a mayor of the People's Party, who was Corina Porro. And it was finally passed by a mayor of the Socialist Party, who was Mr. Abel Caballero, which is what will lead to the guilt of everything, but in reality the only change that introduced Mr. Abel Caballero, which corresponded to the final approval because he entered by mayor in 2007 and the plan was processed between 2000 and 2008, was the incorporation of 30% of soil dedicated to housing of official protection. That was the big change he made and that was, by the way, very much discussed. And now, from there, the slaughterhouses called him, because he's going to take the blame for all the responsibilities. [[Murmurs.]] And I would like to repeat more, Mr. Castineira, this transaction that you are now considering with article 144 is the clear and obvious expression of the lack of foresight and precipitation with which this law was made, because with the law currently in force would not be necessary, neither with the previous nor with the previous one was necessary, because if it was their hand cutting off. But all their life, all the actions of general interest and supra-municipal interest have had their channel and their support in the legislation itself. Look, we now renew our commitment to substantially modify this law, immediately that we have responsibilities for government when we have them. And secondly, I will tell you, Mr. Castineira, gentlemen of the People's Party, that it is false that this law had sought consensus. I don't know where Mr. Castineira comes from that 80% of his contributions. I don't know what statistics is, because I've been reviewing my notes, and I think, if there's 20%, I think a lot. Secondly, it's not a law that guarantees stability. So little stability that will be the first law changed before it comes into force, and before the end of the year it will again be changed repeatedly. And, of course, it's not a law that's going to guarantee...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u44	...that all the municipalities in Galicia have a general plan and will not guarantee the protection of rural soil as we are told. With regard to the amendments of the parliamentary groups, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to vote against one, which is the number four of the People's Party, and away from the other. And you're going to vote for abstention. I don't know if we withdraw our abstention to not complicate the vote, but in principle we had planned to abstain in the 34th Joint Group, which is the one referred to correctly in the municipal plans, because right there is the only transaction we didn't admit, because for us or if we agree that the councils can formulate the municipal basic plan, as if, of course, we were promised with the draft of the law and it has been repeated publicly... I employ Mr. Castineira to read the 2014 newspaper and the statements of what he was spoke of by the People's Party and that now they are not met, as so many other things that are not met...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u45	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u46	...by the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u47	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u48	Mr. Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing: there are a number of people who defend the interests of all the Greeks, and there are others who defend their survival simply. You are a tide, a group, a party... you don't know very well what they are, what they are, what they're born and they're choking with the economic crisis, and they need the economic crisis to continue to exist because if they don't, they don't exist. So, ladies and gentlemen, that's what you're studying, and your boss knows perfectly well: the worse, the better. [[Applause]] That's you, that's easy! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So that's the way it is. No, they explained that to you......they explained it to you... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u50	...in the ABC of beginning when it started in politics. Look, here is the question that is limited – it appears – to the question of Vigo. We never said that this, the amendment to article 144, was exclusively for the Vigo Council. The most urgent thing right now is the Vigo Town Hall situation. But that's for the 314 municipalities of Galicia. And at no time do we deny it, we say so. Why? Because it can happen another time in a similar situation in any other municipality. So we're going to answer that. Now, to say that this law is going to change before it comes into force, I'd like to know where they got it from, I'd like to know where they got it from, but maybe they get it from, the same thing that they say they're going to change the law once it's approved, if you get to rule. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First of all, you have to have an imagination to get them to rule again in Galicia after what they've done. And, second, we'll see! Because also the mayor of Pontevedra – twenty years old! – said he was going to modify the general plan and it's been 20 years without changing it; or Monforte's or others. And indeed, the general plans don't just make them together, eh! [[Murmurs.]] Together may motivate, encourage, but the municipalities have their autonomy and you know it, Mr. Bugallo. You know it perfectly and so do you. So, there are municipalities that don't want to make their general plans, so this law includes the autonomous basic plan and municipal basic plans. Why? Because whoever doesn't, if he will do it to Junta, without leaving absolutely no apex of competence to the Town Councils, who can make the general plan when they think it appropriate; and will be applauded, you can be sure. As far as Vigo's situation is concerned, in order not to go away, because I want him to be clearly focused, we can read, Mrs. Pontón, so that it is clear, where he clearly says that in the event of the disagreement in the report – article 198, current –... Yes, but what he did not say is that the Board of Directors, which comes next, because we have to read everything, will decide whether to execute, regardless of the report, whether it is incompatible or whatever. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in the amendment put by the People's Party says: If the report of the council is unfavourable by the degree of affection that the execution of the project implies for local interests, the competent council will dictate file resolution of the procedure and notify the promoter body. Archived. I mean, the county decides whether or not it's done. I think that's an important step. You know that Mr. Bugallo – and it's not a bear hug, Mr. Bugallo – said: we can put a month's public exhibition there. Let's say, fifteen days. We were talking about the possibility of even a public exhibition. And you said no. In Article 198 there is neither public exposure nor supramunipality, nor environmental processing nor approval by the plenary because there is no such possibility. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Those are the issues you raise. Article 198, which said yes, does not come at all. The People's Party's proposal is much more complete, much broader and much more participatory. But well, each one is each. And we're talking, yes, we're talking about a model change clearly, because there it is. And look, Mr. Sánchez, you can't mix one law with the other, which is what you do, mixing amendments to make a bataburrillo law, which fell there all. I mean, that's where the housing law is, that's where environmental legislation is, that's where it's because the municipalities don't give their licenses in time. Even that's enough to say. Hey! City halls have their autonomy. A license from an agricultural holding that gives it is the municipality, it doesn't give it to Junta. So let's be serious! We're not taking that competition out to the county. We still gave him, from 4 to 14. We're not going to get him skills, much less. But look, for you to know, for you to have information on rehabilitation areas, and Jointa's bet on rehabilitation, 67 integral rehabilitation areas, including road ARIs, 55 with funding. [[Murmurs.]] Ask yourself, and you'll know how it works. Yes, that's what there is. And logically the model is clear: closing the urban mesh. That's why they are suppressed and urbanizables are eliminated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u51	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u52	Unlimited, unscheduled urbanizables disappear. Because it's not true what Mrs. Pontón said or what you said, progressive gentlemen, because it doesn't bet this law, quite the contrary, prohibits scattered urbanizations. What you're trying to do is just close the cores, sew the cores, bet on rehabilitation and a different model. And I'd like to know, Mr. Sánchez, where he draws the 300,000 empty housing census. I remind you that there are traditional half abandoned homes. If you get it out of some statistics around there, these statistics are the traditional housing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u54	...that are 150 years old, or more – finished, Mr. President – that are listed in the catastrophe as dwellings, that are half-ruined, and we sincerely hope that with this law you can recover that heritage. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u56	But that doesn't meet the living conditions or much less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u57	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Debate of the entire Galician Cultural Heritage Bill
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u58	The following amendments have been tabled to this bill as a whole. An amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group, another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left and another amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. For the presentation of the bill, the councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u59	Good morning. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the technical team of the board, who accompanies us. I'd like to start this presentation with a reflection. Why do we make a new law? Why do we make a new law when we agree with some of the vertebral axes of the previous normative text? I mean, we agree that protection levels should not be modified in a current framework that is very guaranteed with the level of protection. And we also agree that cultural heritage is part of our being as a country, and it is undoubtedly a factor, an important element of economic development. The answer is very simple. It's necessary, and we want to make a new law, to order and plan our heritage better, to expedite management mechanisms and to give greater legal security to assets and citizens as well. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are presenting today is the answer to a continuous work of analysis of the relevant aspects affecting the system of management and organization of assets. This is because a nature as complex as that of cultural heritage varies over time, and the criteria, their recognition and management, too. Ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law gives rise to the premise not to change the levels of protection achieved, but also to the importance of improving the law itself as a result of the experience gained from the administrative point of view, when the one we have in force has just attained twenty years. I think, we believe, that we all agree that the law of the year 1995, Galician Cultural Heritage Act of 1995, was and is a great law. It was a law passed unanimously and it was a law that achieved its goal, which was basically to generate a culture of protection, to generate a culture of respect for our heritage. But it is no less true – I have said the experience of these years – that has generated from the administrative and heritage protection point of view an important bureaucracy and slowness in administrative processing, and derived from this slowness in administrative processing, notable prejudices to citizens and their own assets. For these reasons, and then – as I said – of the twenty-year experience, we are forced to look for a new management; a simpler new management, closer to the citizen, more quickly and adapted to the technologies of the 21st century. We understand it's time to change it. For me as an advisor, political officer in this matter, it would have been more comfortable to keep it. However, responsibility has led us to work on behalf of our heritage and to introduce appropriate adaptations. Adjustments to address the objective difficulties of administrative management and appropriate to the needs of the new society, to incorporate the legal changes introduced by the legislation linked both to the general legal framework and to comparative legislation and international conventions defining new types of heritage; to develop also planning instruments, both land assets and territorial property management; and all of this having as its main objective, such as a master line, do not at any time reduce the levels of protection and safeguarding values, but rather reorganize the administrative management of the heritage. In this sense, the new law will entail an important legislative simplification, since it comes to derogate and recast three legal texts: the law of 95, and Galician cultural heritage, the law of protection of Santiago's roads and the law of artistic staffing in public works and the streets of Santiago de Galicia. Among its main novelties are the incorporation into the legal framework of new assets recognised by international bodies, such as the underwater heritage, among others. We're also looking for involvement and coordination with local authorities, with municipalities. For this purpose, what is called a legal qualification is designed to allow municipalities to authorize interventions in certain catalogued assets of the architectural and ethnological heritage. It is thus sought to speed up processing in a secure way, without diminishing the cautions or risk to our heritage, and also in the processing of urban planning instruments. Legal security is sought for individuals and citizens who own the estate. It accentuates the maximum protection of our most sovereign heritage and proposes an improvement in the management of heritage assets, supported in the management of instruments regulating assets and in the reorganization of administrative management. Even so, a greater involvement of civil society is sought in the safeguarding of our heritage. As far as asset management is concerned, one must say, first of all, that title I defines the categories of assets, BICs and catalogued goods. The BICs, of cultural interest, are the most important assets of the country's cultural heritage, are the BICs by singular declaration, the BICs ope legis, i.e. the paths of Santiago, the heritage of Humanity, the shields prior to 1901, the property of defensive architecture prior to 1849, the harrows, cruises and pockets of souls prior to 1901, the caves, shelters and petroglyphs with manifestations of rock art. And they also include new categories of BIC: cultural pathways, landscapes of cultural value, and the distinction between historical sites and historical territories. Second category, catalogued goods. Cataloged goods are those that are already catalogued and invented and that are worthy of a remarkable value. In this category, all the goods that were contained in the general inventory of Galician cultural heritage, except, of course, those that are already declared BIC. The individual catalogues, those that individually determine the city's own urban catalogues as well as the Ope Lei catalogues, i.e. the remaining main routes delimited from the Way of Santiago, the sculptural demonstrations in wood and pictorial events prior to 1600 and the fish, ships and aircraft that are submerged prior to 1901 in the territorial sea of Galicia. You will see that we have fixed specific dates, for legal certainty both for the goods themselves and for the owners of these goods, and for rational criteria that allow us to fix and classify the goods rationally. From the point of view of the design of the planning instrument, first of all, the Galician Register of Cultural Interest Goods, which will include the BICs by singular declaration and those that are ope legis, that is, by legal imperative. Secondly, the Catalogue of Galician Cultural Heritage, which will cover all the goods contained in the General Inventory of Cultural Heritage and those contained individually in the urban catalogues and the catalogues ope lei. Here, obviously, there will be two scales, an autonomous general scale and a municipal scale, which will be taken into account and will be linked directly also to urban planning. Moreover, the law introduces an important novelty, which is the creation of the census of cultural goods; an instrument of publicity and transparency that will grant legal security to citizens. This tool will be continually updated by the counseling, in order to become a tool for documentation, study, research, dissemination and knowledge of those goods which, not being catalogued, may or may not be deserving in the future of being. This will allow you to collect, and you will collect, the goods or items in which you appreciate that you compete with a cultural value but that have not yet been declared culturally interested goods or catalogued goods. As a matter of fact, another novelty will be that all the goods included in the management instruments will have a definition of typology and intensity of protection and intervention. This is a novelty that will bring great security, both to the owners of wealth and to the managers and to the wealth informants, in the sense that it will enable it to homogenize criteria, avoid arbitrariness and avoid prejudices to citizens or administrations, and of course to its own goods. Thus, Title II sets out three levels, three types of protection: integral protection, structural protection and environmental protection, from the maximum protection, which is the integral protection, where all BICs are included and where there is a search for comprehensive conservation in the state – so to speak – closer to the original; subsequently, both structural and environmental protection in less valuable goods, interventions may be – in some ways – less guaranteed in respect of the initial good. As far as the proposed administrative reorganization is concerned, it is based on an increase in the participation and involvement of local administrations, i.e. the municipalities. For this purpose, legal authorization is introduced as one of the main novelties so that municipalities can authorize interventions in certain assumptions and on certain goods. What do you intend to do with legal qualifications for the Town Councils? There is a need for greater administrative agility and greater involvement of all administrations, both local and autonomous. It also seeks more autonomy and responsibility for different administrations. It is also intended to be closer to citizens, and we are not – and I want to make it very clear, I want to make this issue very clear – before a blank check. Voluntary qualifications, which will be established by agreement, are subject to a number of requirements. It will have to sign an agreement and the council will have to believe the existence of the precise technical frameworks and it will also have to count on approved urban planning adapted to the new legislation. I mean, we're not in front of a blank check, we're in front of a measure that's going to enable, that's going to encourage, that's going to involve the municipalities in the management of the heritage and it's going to suppose for the citizens and for the goods themselves greater security, and above all greater agility in the management of their own assets. Obviously, certain authorizations are retained by the Directorate-General for Heritage. In other words, all BICs will have to be subject to the preceptive heritage report, like the assets of ownership of the Catholic Church or the archaeological artistic heritage. With the authorization, the municipalities – and thus – can directly authorize interventions in specific assumptions. In this way, administrative agility will be gained; citizens will be encouraged; bureaucracy will be reduced, and this question, too, must be said, has been seen very well by mayors, by various mayors of different political parties and formations, who have received as a good news the possibility of putting these legal abilities into effect which make it possible to have greater involvement in the management of the heritage. To set an example, so that we all understand each other, an intervention in a church or a monastery is going to be submitted to the Perceptive Heritage Report. Now, the housing that is in the protective environment of this church or monastery property, in which if you want to change the roof, change the windows, or do any kind of intervention in this housing, in this case you can only be authorized by the municipality, as long as the municipality meets the conditions laid down: have adequate technical means to be able to report and, of course, have urban planning. So you're going to make a lot of money in agility, and citizens who have housing or construction around real estate will also have a basic benefit measured in agility in administrative processing. Other aspects also of great interest are the specific regulation of new heritage types: intangible heritage, industrial heritage, underwater heritage and scientific heritage; new categories of heritage that are incorporated into legislation, where adaptation criteria are set to be able to classify or not a property asset, these goods are regulated and principles raised by international commissions such as UNESCO itself. The Way of Santiago is also of great importance in this law. The Way of Santiago we all know that it is a symbol of identity of Galicia, and the law itself recognizes and values this nature. Among the novels he presents regarding the Way of Santiago, it must be said that BIC is declared all those paths of Santiago which, in turn, are the heritage of humanity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u60	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u61	...they are catalogued goods that can be incorporated, according to the municipalities, into the BIC category. Official recognition is also given to the Winter Road as a new pilgrimage route to Compostela, and the development of a territorial ordination instrument, an ITP, an Integrated Territorial Plan referred to in the Land Planning Act of 1995, which will serve to order with an integral perspective the territory through which the roads pass. Finally, we present a new policy spoken to the sectors involved, which is possible thanks to the open dialogue line to draw up the articulated text. For months we held meetings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u62	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u63	...with representatives of the Fegamp, the Galaga Culture Council, the Royal Galaga Academy, the Universities, the Official College of Architects, the Prosecutor's Office, for a new regulation that opens up participation in the municipalities, which was welcomed by the municipalities and the Fegamp, which gives more autonomy and changes the feeling of distrust towards the municipalities towards a more participatory and more respect for the municipalities. A new law also self-requiring, in which Junta puts her duty, if she sets deadlines for the development of certain issues, and a law that we are sure will improve conceptual definitions and avoid uncertainties and indeterminations that can undermine in practice the effectiveness of conservation actions and put in value of it. Finally – and finished, Madam President – a law that follows the path of the law of 1995, maintaining the levels of protection of heritage goods but changing management and management systems, to give greater security to Galician cultural heritage and greater guarantees to citizens. Finally, a new law that I hope to have a good parliamentary trajectory, that there is a serene, constructive debate, that we escape from the easy demagogy. In short, a new law that enables us to value our heritage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u64	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u65	...and that I bet for the good of the country and for the good of our heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u66	Thank you, Counselor. The role of defence of amendments to the whole and position of the bill. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u67	Good morning, ladies. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Today we are debating in this Chamber the 2015 Galician Cultural Heritage Bill, which replaces the previous one of 1995. A text that does not have a casual approach, as is logical, with the current Government of Galician Union. It reflects this text as a way of understanding culture from a neoliberal perspective, forming a product not with a value of use for citizenship, but with a value of change, directed to tourism or capable of creating business performance. This new law, as Mr. Counsellor has well said, unites three in force: the Galician Cultural Heritage Act of 1995, the Santiago Roads Protection Act of 1996, and the Act of Artistic Staffing in Public Works and in the Santiago Roads of 1991. This measure, together with the first recognition of the Winter Road, is a major step forward for the protection of the Ways of Santiago; this according to the counsellor, who has just exposed it here in this lecture. But if we evaluate what didn't do to Junta, if we evaluate the state of certain tranches and if we listen to experts and studies on this subject, we check the unfortunate aspect of areas and routes in a total state of abandonment, when not of aggression, such as the event in Sarria with the destruction of medieval bridges, the historical passage of pilgrims towards Santiago, aggressions, in this case, promoted by the Mino-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, and that was with the complicity of the General Directorate of Cultural Heritage and the Council of Culture, with the permission of the Santiago Advisory Committee of Ways. Counsellor, what the associations of the Way of Santiago demand is that within a year the delimitations and regulations of the various plots, already covered by the law of 1995 and not carried out during the twenty years of vigil of this law, come into force. What I mean is that we already have laws to defend our heritage, but whether they are or not applied or ignored, the convenience of who governs, and the law that presents us to the Board and we debate today doesn't improve what is already there. The positive thing about this law, as the Galician Council itself acknowledges in its report, is that it unites existing texts in one text, but this is a purely insufficient motivation to have reached its parliamentary process as a bill. Another positive point that recognizes the Council of Culture is the recognition as members of our cultural heritage the intangible, industrial, ethnographic heritage, or the conception of the territory as a vertebrate element and integrator of material and intangible meanings: landscapes, roads, or the toponymity itself. Well, all right, the spirit, but, according to the people consulted, the proposed text is a condensation of the current legislation with some modification, which, far from making it more operational, makes it far more far-sighted, is not a guarantee, creates more uncertainty and confusion in its application, and will give rise to arbitrariness. But let us do a little analysis from here on with recent examples that have already been discussed in this Parliament. A first example. I would like to speak about the future high-voltage line in Lalin, which will affect the frigate of Catasos, and which has been debated and denounced for its construction in this Parliament with various initiatives, requiring that the layout be modified to preserve the frigate. The result: the line is still in project, without moving an apex its plot, for the benefit of the electric company, despite the strong social mobilization against it. Then they say it's a consensual law. But the destruction of the friar, in addition, is not only an aggression in the middle, it is also against the ethnographic intangible heritage of the territory as a vertebrate and integrator element, because a friar of chestnuts of hundreds of years is a living history of the populations that have been settled in its environment and area of influence, idiosyncrasy and the conformation of a society, a way of organizing themselves, of solving concrete problems of use of the mountain, cultivation techniques, legends, tales, culinary recipes or curatives. Yes, this law protects ethnographic intangible heritage, but will it protect the frigate of Catasus? No, you won't protect her, so it's not worth it. Now we're talking about institutional investments, which have changed the value of use for the exchange value. Another example. Cebreiro's pedraphyta enjoyed public intervention, and what happened, the result, was to change its character as a Galician village to resemble a theme park or a bazaar – I don't know very well how to classify it – directed to tourism. Or the own historical helmet of Compostela, emptied of social value for the neighbors and converted into a medieval film decoration, or an exclusive shopping center for tourists from stores of objects related to the Way or cathedral. And also with restoration in both directions: lunch and urbanism, of greater or lesser wealth. Does this problem solve the bill? Not again. More examples of the mercantilist intent of a government of neoliberal ideology. The construction of a luxury hotel in the castle of Monterrey, contradicting and disregarding the demands of citizenship, for public use and enjoyment of facilities, and also contradicting the negative reports of the major cultural organisms of Galicia. Reset the exchange value over the usage value. Could this aberration be done again with the proposed new law? Yes. Therefore, this law is not valid, Counselor. I continue with examples. The modernist helmet of the city of Ferrol, which since its declaration as BIC finds itself in a lamentable state of conservation. The BIC statement not only solved the problems of this city's old helmet, but, according to experts, made them worse. The current laws charge owners – and this too – with bureaucratic and urban loads, little or no help, but all the inconveniences of assuming rehabilitation, and impose a lot of obstacles, bureaucratic and urban, which do not at all favor the recovery of this space for housing and public use. Does this law have any answers to solve problems like Ferrol's? No, Counselor. Another example. The Eiros cave, an exceptional archaeological site, called Altamira galega, which allows rigorous study of the prehistory of Galicia, and which has been deprotected and almost destroyed by the activity of a quarry, producing water filtrations that severely damage the rupestrian paintings, voodoos that increase the risk of overthrow, and landscaping incompatible with the tourist exploitation of a heritage value of this size, without the Union and most of the People's Party –of the Government party – did nothing to prevent its deterioration. Can you keep going through this new legislation? Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Or said, is there a lack of legislation? No, we already have enough legislation, but it doesn't apply, or it applies to convenience, or it creates more problems than it solves. And this new and – according to my criterion – unnecessary text will not correct the defects of the previous one, rather quite the contrary; it generates legal insecurity for being filled with presumptions, and leads to less protection of our cultural heritage. It is significant not to say that suspect, see as in Article 38, "Subsidiary Protection Borders", the protection areas are reduced from 50 to 20 metres in ethnological elements, and 30 on cultural pathways, when for this purpose there are already specific protection areas in planning. The delimitation of protection and depreciation borders, articles 12 and 13, are not concrete and are not clear. And I say it's suspected by the monastery of Melón, in Ourense province, where works of an illegal building, authorized by a mayor of the People's Party, and that it has not been brought down despite judicial judgments in that sense, until the neighbours, the opposition parties, a judge and even the press have pressed and achieved compliance with the law. They won't do the Town Councils now with the new law! I remind you, moreover, that this most excellent mayor was the wife of the former mayor, disabled for this reason for the exercise of politics. One of the great news presented to us in this project, speaking of the councils, is that it gives more responsibilities to the municipalities, which allows them to directly authorize a series of interventions, plan and give green light to a series of actions in the less valuable architectural and ethnographic heritage, and in the context of greater consideration, without passing through the Provincial Heritage Commission; a measure which I call attention because I contravene the Statute of Autonomy in its articles 32 and 27.18, escapes to Galicia's board of responsibilities and adjudicates these competences to some municipalities with assumptions cut out and probably unable to deal with this challenge, so is happening to us in the city of Ourense with the Archaeological Museum. Technical committees shall disappear as advisory bodies, Articles 5 and 7. Commissions which, curiously, have never been convened since the previous law of 1995 came into force. So they are eliminated without knowing or not knowing their effectiveness, and as a priori it was a good measure. But if – and this does not surprise me – the Joint Commission of Galicia-Catholic Church maintains Article 6 by granting it as it does not! to this entity a privilege deal with the rest of the citizenship, the owners and owners of other buildings. This is inexplicable in other countries around Europe, but here we continue under the iron glove, the iron glove, of the Concordate with the Catholic Church. As examples of indefinition and lack of clarity of the law we can mention, for example, articles 91 and 92. On the one hand, there is talk of the term crosses, which are given an ethnological value, but not archaeological value. The problem lies in what many are listed as archaeological deposits, and this causes a delicate problem that would have to be dealt with sooner than later with more arrest, because many continue to serve as delimiters of parishes or municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u68	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u69	...so they had to be added – yes, President, thank you – a practical and administrative value. This thin line between ethnography and archaeology, we also have it in the snow and in the holes of the wolf. Many dates from the Middle Ages, and some have been intervened archeologically. With the new law it is unclear whether you can act on them without the need for an archaeological project. And I'm going to leave the rest of my intervention to the replica, so that we don't have time for the rest of the speakers and not to prolong the debate. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u70	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u71	Good morning to all and to all. We are again before the contradictory speech, and more after the intervention of the Education Adviser. It is clear to me that we prefer to live in the rhetoric of emptiness, which is, for example, everything that appears in this bill in the exhibition part, where the intentions expressed right there come in contradiction to what is announced in the part of the articulate, that here, instead of being rhetorical of the void, becomes a liquid, unstable, insecure rhetoric and even entering into contradictions. You have also waived – and here again you have reaffirmed – a critical, really critical and serious analysis of Law 8/1995. Without a critical reflection it is not possible to understand, from a political, procedural and conceptual point of view, everything that has been done wrong with regard to the protection of the historical, cultural and natural heritage, that this is the name we defend. You come in and bring in a new bill as if nothing was wrong with respect to wealth in all these twenty years, or as if everything was all right, as if all the Greek public administrations were acting correctly in these years or as if the Galician Union had done it, but it's not true, and we know a lot of attacks on our heritage. The most recent have to do with their budgetary policy. Without a worthy budgetary policy, of course it is not possible to provide sufficient resources for our heritage to know the protection and all the research that is required in a proper way. You haven't even analyzed, from a pedagogical, conceptual point of view, changes in the discourse on cultural heritage. You have excluded the destruction of our heritage in the dialectic that is established between infrastructure and progress and respect for our heritage. Some things have already been stated here by the person who preceded me in the use of the word, but we can remember the expansive forest policy of the eucalyptus, which put and jeopardized the rock art – petroglyphs –, the castrexic art and even the mines that have come from Roman times. Eucalyptus who not only erode with their roots that wealth, but also logically a fuel material, and therefore through the fires there is also enormous heritage destruction. Therefore, its policy – the expansive forest policy of the eucalyptus – also logically contributes to the destruction of the heritage; or the mining policy, or the infrastructure policy, which is linked to an emergency management archaeology, whose memories we would like to be able to observe, really, that it has been decided to do with the enormous and ingenious... evidences, demonstrations of the existence of heritage remains. We just have to remember here the defenses we did, for example, of what happened in Coeses, and their permanent refusal to support these initiatives, which they intended to defend our past as a people, our memory. And we can remember what happened, for example, at the tip of Walls with the destruction of the castle, or what happened to the fortified factory of Bronze Age in the outer port of the Coruña. Or we can remember what happened, for example, with the girl's chest with the footpaths of the quick way; the chest disappeared as if by magic art, without any explanation like that, without any kind of repercussions, without any kind of responsibility from anyone, our heritage is as if it had been the same. In the face of this dialectical infrastructure-progress that you logically incorporate – and I will soon arrive at that – into this bill through the theory of free market and economic initiative, which, of course, is a tremendous contradiction, because, while they introduce this into the law, logically favor the destruction of historical, cultural and natural heritage. This heritage cannot be immediately and directly understood, but through historical work that can only make sense in a society which has institutionalized historical knowledge in education and which is present in the media. Research, education and resources, those three stones are missing, failed, not carried out for these twenty years. The heritage you want under the law of the market, so they introduce Article 38(f) there, you don't want obstacles to the free economic initiative, recognized as free enterprise within the framework of a market economy. That's spelled out in the law. Civil society, curiously, does not have that freedom, but businesses. Furthermore, knowing the harmful results of the different goods integrated into the archaeological parks managed by private companies, we here make the claim that management and ownership are logically exercised from the Public Administration, from the Education Council. With regard to participation, local communities are not integrated into this bill. You have a governing and paternalist law. There is no real participation, and it is not even recognized who has seen for the protection of our heritage over these years, which has not been precisely the Public Service of any kind many times, but people who have collectively gathered together in associations to ensure precisely the preservation of our heritage. Participation is a right of citizenship attached to the right of access to culture. In order to access and participate, citizenship has to be properly informed, and that has not happened or happened in this bill because you want to keep the location of the goods secret. Local communities are expelled from participation –Article 5 – and from advisory and advisory bodies –Article 7 – where, on the other hand, there are obvious and inexplicable absences which the affected institutions themselves have made in their allegations – for example, the Museum of the Galician People. Secret and darkness can be imposed on the advertising of good for proper preservation and guarantee of statutory and constitutional rights: access to culture, participation and information. If a asset is not grasped by the local community because of a darkening strategy, you logically have easier to allow for its destruction. Silence and forgetfulness lead to destruction, to forgetfulness of memory. We repeat, therefore, that you throughout the law refer on numerous occasions to further regulatory development of different aspects, and many of them should not be relied on for a later regulation in which we will have absolutely nothing to say, it would be impossible. For example, in the formation of the Joint Joint Committee-Catholic Church -Article 6 -, in the delimitation of the protection borders -Article 12 - and of the buffer zone -Article 13 -; the very content of the declaration -Article 22.6 -, the nature of the data which must appear in the Register of Cultural Interest -Article 23.3 -, the Catalogue of the Cultural Heritage of Galicia -25.2 -; all subject to a later regulation. We understand that these are important enough aspects to be more defined in a law. In our understanding there are even confusions – or at least to us cause confusion – in what you call the value of presumption of a cultural good in article 14. He has courage, but his interest must be shown. Looks like a tatological category. If it is not catalogued, if it is not considered a good, how can the value be determined? We understand that a good, for example, an unearthed chest, but which we know about microtoponymity, which identifies it in the memory of the times, has a value not of presumption, has a value. But research is missing, which is what is generally lacking throughout the historical, cultural and natural heritage in Galicia. The incorporation of a cultural asset into a census must respond to the need to save it for the future, incorporate it. But you say that incorporation does not involve conservation measures. That's absurd for us. That article 14 also seems totally dangerous to us. The Public Administration must first activate all preventive measures appropriate to that presumption, support the work needed, count on all measures of, for example, research, excavation, research, and establish appropriate preventive measures that bring value and interest. Chapter I – to stop us in some things we can comment on, but it would be a lot – to our understanding, is an offering to inconsistencies – for us – pedagogical and theoretical; and besides it is not very well defined the buffer zone and the protective environment. For us there is conceptual disorder, terminology confusion and classification; lack of normative balance and explanatory and pedagogical clarity. For example, it's especially evident in what you call furniture, which reduces it to the minimum expression, or in the intangible heritage. Above all, it is surprising when, in respect of the latter, it is not even collected in the critical aspect of Law 10/2015, of May 26, for the safeguard of the cultural and material heritage that has been approved at the state level and that has an impact and influence on us. However, in this category of cultural and intangible heritage, to our understanding – and as we will speak throughout the work that takes place in presentation through the numerous amendments that we present in this regard – you do not define it. Underwater archeological heritage does not have it for nothing understood and defined in the bill; and it is fundamental because the Greek coast has many treasures. For example, in the Rande area, it wouldn't have happened what happened to Rande Bridge if we really protected our heritage. The castle is gone; the numbered stones that remember the neighbors and neighbors and the members of the association, the stones of the castle disappeared one by one. Where's that castle? And in the ruins, in the remaining vestiges, we want to make enlargement; it makes enlargement, and goodbye very good. And at sea, at the underwater level, we have all the fish, even for working all that, still for investigating. Therefore, our understanding of the bill has many advantages, and they cause us to see ourselves in the obligation to request their return. The rhetoric of cultural good as commodities that must be economically profitable cannot be used to explain a law of cultural heritage. Logically it is under the perspective of capitalism and neoliberalism, which converts everything, everything!, into economic profitability. But for us that is not the model; it is not the community model; it is not the model of empowerment of local communities, which must watch, they must themselves; they must participate; they must decide even what is most important to their contour, which is that cultural good; that project, which gives them explanation, which gives them sense as a collective. And you deny that. A cultural asset possesses a symbolic, identity, aesthetic, historical, intellectual, social, political value, etc. And why exactly is a law made? Legal protection, what is the object of this legal protection? It's limiting their freedom of movement as merchandise, and that's what a great historian, a historian at the University of Santiago, Bermejo, said. I mean, precisely the laws are made to limit a cultural asset to be subject to the laws of the market...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u72	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u73	...that allows, precisely, the free economic initiative. The contrast, the confrontation, the dialectics, is clear that cultural good loses if it is subject to the laws of the market and to the law of mass consumption. Like that mayor who was proud that 20,000 people came in to see Dombatte's grief. An elemental calculation already represents that it endangers the good. So you have to be very careful with what you say. We clearly say that cultural law, in order to implement itself well, needs resources, needs participation and needs another cultural policy since the Public Administration, which in this case is the Union of Galicia. You, over these years, and especially since Mr. Feijóo came in again, have shown that neither budgets nor real concern for the heritage. That's where we've got the outcome that you've allowed with the castle of Monterrey...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u74	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u75	...with the cave of Eiros, who refused to be declared a good heritage of humanity Yes, yes, but... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u76	Mr. Ron, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u77	...here they don't want to approve things. Then they follow other paths, but here they don't want to do that political work. Well, nothing more and thank you very much. Totally, return.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u79	Good day to all and to all, and very especially to the people who are workers of the world of culture that accompany us today in this debate. I think you are very interested in your presence, your opinion, and also that today you would have better meaning for this Parliament and, therefore, that what we are talking about has a greater impact. Today we are talking about something that is very important in a country like Galicia, as is our heritage: cultural, artistic, natural, immaterial heritage, which is characterized in our country by being rich, varied, diverse. But we also have to tell you, Counselor, that we are frankly disagreed with your diagnosis that everything here is fine, everything is protected, and that this is just a retouch to adjust a little better to the legislation we have. There are very serious problems of conservation, knowledge, research, transfer to society of the very value of culture. And not only of transfer to society, even of non-compliance and destruction of the heritage that are characterised by the administration itself. So we have a very different diagnosis of what you were doing in your introduction, and I also share the view that it was said here that, of course, what you transmit is not what appears in the specific contents of the law. We are going to talk and conceptualize here the heritage from what are the trends that are currently being produced, even that definition made in the 2005 Faro Convention, a convention on the value of cultural heritage that has not ratified the Spanish State and that says that cultural heritage is a set of inherited resources of the past that people consider, whatever the property ownership regime, as reflection and expression of its values, beliefs, knowledge and traditions in continuous evolution; that includes all aspects of the environment resulting from the interaction between people and places. So we collect and believe that it is important that we conceptualize the heritage out of that more classic concept and that it has to do with identity, it has to do with values, it has to do with the feelings of a people in relation not only to material goods, but also with their intangible assets. This, which in theory you say they pick it up, we actually see how it doesn't show up. I would ask for a little silence because it is very uncomfortable to speak with much background noise. I know there are people who don't care about the debate, but I think there's room outside to do it. Well, I was saying that we believe that this concept does not appear clearly in the law; a law which, on the other hand, implies a very important retreat in relation to what it should be, and a lost opportunity towards the future. The councillor said that this law came to replace a law that was born with consensus; a law that was passed unanimously in this Parliament. Unfortunately, the procedure followed by the German Government prevents, at first, that can only happen, because this law is already born with amendments to the return of three of the groups of this House, which we understand is not a step forward, but there is really a deprotection of the heritage. I believe that only this starting point would deserve the advice and the People's Party itself to be able to understand that this law should be withdrawn and that it would be more logical for us to set up a presentation that would start from scratch in this Parliament; a presentation in which we have analysed the problems and shortcomings of the current legislation, which put what should be the objectives and that we have built them with the real participation of all the agents who are currently talking about the heritage. We understand that there is a deprotection and a situation of great fragility of the heritage in our country. Throughout the 20th century, there is a history of destruction – even often by the Administration – of very important heritage elements, and as already mentioned in this debate we have seen in recent years a growing deprotection and an inaction by the Board of Galicia in respecting legality. We can talk about how works were allowed in the Sarria River that clearly attacked a part of our heritage assets, against the remains of a medieval bridge. We can talk about how the Board of Gaulza looked elsewhere with works of municipalities, such as the Town Hall of Silleda, which destroyed a castle that was catalogued, and which he therefore knew, to make a road; and all this with the announcement by the Board of Galicia. We can talk about the necropolis of Coeses. We can talk about Eiros' cave. We can talk about the castle of Monterrey. We can talk about how works funded by the Galician Board of Restoration, have resulted in the destruction of scraps in our country, something that has emerged in this operation known as "Operation Retablo", and we also know that many of these companies are still hiring with the Galician Board of Directors at this time. So we now have a situation of our heritage that we consider to be very sensitive. It has been noted that in the face of Galician inaction, social initiatives are emerging, very important initiatives, such as Galician Heritage or other entities that have been working for a long time on the recovery of our built heritage and on the recovery of our intangible heritage, which are alerting us to deprotection, to the disinterest of the Galician Union and to the lack of means and resources. And this is something very important in relation to the future of heritage. Fuck off! The Galician Union, the year in which it plans to pass the heritage law, has reduced by 6% the budgets that relate to cultural heritage. And when we analyze the priorities of your advice, Counsellor, what do we see? The City of Culture has more resources than any real investment to protect this country's cultural heritage. Here is: EUR 9 million for the Galician Union to the City of Culture, EUR 8 million for real investment in heritage protection. You think it's logical? You think it's sustainable? But it's just that for more abundance we see how ever since the People's Party governs heritage resources have suffered a 42% reduction that has nothing to do with the global budget reduction, but it's a political decision that goes against the maintenance of our fabric. And to conclude, in this paragraph which refers to the economic sphere, the memory accompanying this law is a real shame. I invite your lordships to see it, because it is normal for you to tell us the Board of Galicia that the cost of the annual and funding actions planned for the application of this law in 2016 is €370,000; in 2017 it is €400,000; and in 2018 it is €320,000? Counsellor, this is not serious, this is not rigorous, and the only thing that proves is how you have no interest in protecting our heritage. In that sense, allow me to have a question that you highlighted very much. He told us that the great contribution of this law is that the municipalities will be given more powers. I never believed that competition can be derived without economic means. You're the only government that's about to make a competitive lift, because the exclusive competences that have been recognised in the Self-Government Statute itself seem to be great, so the great contribution that Junta makes to this second decentralization wave of what they are talking about here, in the explanatory statement of the law, is to derive these powers from the councils. And they do it with an argument, Counselor, which is not of receipt. More importantly, I'd say it's embarrassing the ratings you put in the explanatory statement. First of all, it tells us that the fact that Junta exercises competence is traditional centralization. Well, this is a question for you, and they say, "The traditional centralization of the public management of the heritage with the cock of the high technical expertise" – it seems that the high technical expertise is something negative – and the need of the expert dictatorship, does not contribute to the feeling of proximity and identification of citizenship with the cultural heritage that somehow belongs to it, as an expression of the collective identity in which it is inserted." Then they tell us, "Only a paternalist, directist and interventionist vision can cast doubt on the relevant role of the municipalities. To continue to protect and preserve the cultural heritage from back to the municipalities implies, in fact, to do it from back to back to citizenship itself." Counselor, what do you mean to us in this explanatory statement? First of all, what is the fact that it exercises competences against the protection of wealth? You want to tell us there's too much heritage protection? Do you want to tell us that the fact that skills are being handled since the Galician Union is managing from back to back to citizenship? I think this deserves an explanation, because it's a kind of argument that justifies the law, which goes into the explanatory statement, which is, I'm telling you the truth, I think it is entrepreneurship that appears in a law, especially in terms of disposing of property protection and disposing of the role of the municipalities. Tell us, Counsellor, as you want, that councils that have exclusive competences in urbanism, that years ago, as it has been seen that they cannot be exercised, have created the Agency of Legality to have instruments that enable them to exercise the competences of the municipalities themselves, and you tell us that in the midst of an economic crisis, without resources and without means, the great novelty of this law is to decentralise competences for municipalities, without means, without resources, without technical personnel. He also told us about the problem of bureaucracy and slowness. We disagree with a question. The problem with legislation and the application of the Heritage Act is the lack of means, resources and technical staff of the Administration. Tell us, Counselor, how many archaeologists does the Galician Union have to make all the reports it has to do? Which technical staff does the General Heritage Directorate count on? Won't that be the problem, and not what you told us here, I think in a way I would even say that a little superficial and that doesn't seem proper to who has so many means and so many resources in the Galician Union? We also demand the return of this law because we believe it will cause greater discretion and legal insecurity, with very unclear concepts that will create confusion. So look, two records of cultural goods, the catalogued goods and the BICs, together with a third that is the Census of Cultural Heritage, are created, and no kind of relationship is established between them. We have a census that also creates a fiction of protection, because it uses a regulation that people understand how it protects, but the bill itself says that the fact that a good is inscribed in the census does not imply any kind of protection. I mean, it's a census that's not worth anything at all. Wouldn't it be more logical to advertise the censuses that exist and not be creating instruments that then in practice will not be worth anything? It creates an instrument, such as the buffer areas, which we also believe to be a real nonsense. You set up a series of inaccuracies in how heritage is catalogued, which will even deprotect goods that with the current legislation are protected, because they use temporary references to classify goods. So we see, for example, the contents of the archaeological heritage: the defensive architecture goods are of cultural interest when they are before 1849. The religious buildings when they were built before 1836, as if there were no buildings that had that value. We see that, for example, in buildings for private use, only those built prior to 1803 are protected. But it's not explained to us why they do these kinds of catalogs that, as we say, they deprotect goods that are already protected. The project lacks a strategy of social participation in heritage management, which is key if we really want to protect a heritage as extensive and rich as ours. The problem is not who exercises competence, the problem is the lack of means and resources to protect the heritage and the lack of sensitivity in the Union in actually looking for value, the transfer of the meaning of these goods. They continue to maintain a privilege treatment for the Catholic Church. A convention, a joint commission, which not only solves problems, but we're seeing that in practice means the absence of control of the Galician Council of the Church's heritage goods. We want democratic and egalitarian relations, not that preponderance of the Catholic Church in relation to goods that are a heritage of all and all. They still don't treat archaeological goods as public goods that they are. They don't solve the problem of treatment, conservation, study and display of our archaeological assets. They also do not set out clear measures and commitments to compensate people who own protected cultural goods. No real engagement from the Union to maintain our traditional heritage. The traditional house in Galicia should be protected. All that rich heritage is in many of the villages and there's no means to protect it. The Galician Union does not act or take action in that area. And finally, you don't even address in this legal text a problem that has created many workers and workers of culture, many workers and heritage workers, who are preventing them from making guided visits even to those people who have run archaeological projects and excavations, and are confusing tourism with culture. The workers and the workers of the heritage, the people who are doing their work as historians, as archaeologists, as researchers, must have the capacity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u81	...to be able to intervene educationally in their own projects. We, counsellor, think that, if Galician Union really had an interest in heritage, it would not come the last hour with a law that is a step back, that is not a step forward; a law without budgets; a law that deprotects and that in practice will bring nothing but confusion, legal insecurity and deprotection of our heritage. If they're really interested in heritage, what we can do is sit down and see how you can increase resources to really have the means to preserve, protect and have in a better position our cultural heritage, because you have it in a policy that is the property of a war economy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Non-amendant groups. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Counselor. We have reached the end of this legislation by presenting by the Government of the People's Party the law which I believe is the most promised law of all since it came to power. Since 2010 we've been saying that a new heritage law is coming. Six years and three cultural advisors later, it turns out this law comes, and, actually, Counselor, I have to tell you it's a clear disappointment after so long. The Socialist Group believes, and so we say on several occasions, that this is an unnecessary law. Proof that it's an unnecessary law is that the Counsellor had to take a long job to explain why this law was necessary, because you know it's not. It's simply a demonstration of the way the People's Party works in government in general. When there are serious problems, in this case of heritage and other aspects, instead of taking letters in the matter, of facilitating solutions, what they do is a law. It's a way of trying to show that something is done when nothing is done. If it is true that our heritage, our culture in general, from Mr. Feijóo's arrival to power, is having very serious, very serious problems, which have been reported largely by the voicers who preceded me in the use of the word. But these problems of heritage are not only denounced by the opposition's political groups, as the Counsellor knows perfectly well, but they are multiple cultural associations and heritage defence associations who are talking about the grave problem of deterioration and deprotection that is having the heritage in our country. Just highlight some data we've already said on more than one occasion. About 30% of BIC's declared assets no longer exist. It's not that they're unprotected, they're not, they don't exist, they're on a list, but they're not physically. Or a very important part if you find yourself at a serious risk for your maintenance. And it's not only the BIC, as you will understand, but a lot of other listed goods. Another data simply. The Association Hispania Nostra, dedicated to the defense of Spanish artistic heritage, has included in its red list nothing less than 20 Greek monuments. The budget cuts of this government around the heritage are clearly scandalous and from every point of view unacceptable. Because, if culture has a budgetary cut that is also scandalous in these years of Mr. Feijóo's government, of 56%, far above all cuts or budget cuts, games dedicated specifically to defence, protection and heritage research have a reduction of around 70%; 70% in protection games, in research games. Not happy with this, this year, that the cultural budgets were frozen, the heritage dropped by 6% more than 2015. Of course, you'll understand that there's absolutely nothing you can do with these crumbs. And according to the economic-financial memory that this preliminary draft has, the dominant tonic will be exactly the same. Mrs. Pontón and I agree with her in the scandalous way that those tiny figures are... while they're saying that it's a more protectionist law, that's what you think they're going to apply to the heritage. I mean, we still have insufficient budgets. But the problem – so we say – of Galician heritage is not a legal problem, it is not a normative problem. If the law of 1995 could require some change and a recast, it could be done perfectly without going to a new law. No, Counsellor, the problem of our heritage is not a legal problem, it is not a problem of regulation, it is a political problem, clearly political. It is a problem of political will, it is a problem of commitment to this government of Mr Feijóo. The problem is lack of resources, lack of resources because you've reduced budgets; lack of government sensitivity to protect the heritage; lack of active policy, because there's not only no budget resources, there's no planning. They promised a minimum annual planning, and no one knows what the next good is going to be protected, which is the most urgent protection, in which one must act first. There is no planning at all, and there are of course no policies that encourage awareness and education of citizenship around cultural and heritage values, which is fundamental. It is fundamental throughout Galicia, but it is fundamental in a rural environment that has a very serious problem of depopulation, and that problem of depopulation leads directly to a problem of abandonment of heritage. Of course, they weren't able to give you just one answer to the problems of our heritage, like, for example, the problems of looting in rural areas. There's a clearly mercantilist view. But it is true that we do not present an amendment to the whole right now, and we do not present it for a reason that I will explain to you clearly. The former law of 1995 was born of consensus. It was a law – as has already been said – approved unanimously. We believe that a law of Galician heritage should be born fruit of consensus, fruit of dialogue. So at this moment we seek that consensus; let us say that we hold hands with good will so that we can seek that consensus among all and change everything that is not right in this law. It is a manifestation of goodwill on our part; a search for consensus despite the attitude of the councillor, Counsellor, because you know perfectly well that to present this project to the opposition groups in a very general way, after the bill had been approved by the board, by the Council of the Council of Galicia, it is not precisely to seek consensus. As it was not seeking participation to make the claims of the current project take place in the summer, a time when dates are more difficult for associations and civil society to make claims. Despite that – I insist – we feel it is necessary to try to find an agreement for this law, to amend this law and to get to have a law as best as possible. But, yes, let us not be mistaken, Counselor, what I am saying here, and the fact that we do not present an amendment to the whole, does not mean that we approve this law; it does not mean that there is a blank check; it does not mean that, if you don't correct what I'm going to say now – not everything that concerns us, but what you can say at the moment – if you don't correct these eves of this law, the aspects that concern us, of course, I have to say that we will vote against this law. I mean, this isn't a blank check, it's a hand designed to seek consensus; a consensus on multiple aspects that the truth that concerns us, clearly concerns us, in this law. Especially all that has to do with the space of deprotection that we believe we see in this law around our heritage. First of all, by one of the first news presented by this bill, which is determined by legal authorization so that municipalities can authorize interventions in certain catalogued goods. Of course, the Socialist Group believes, and so we have always shown it in our history, in municipalism. We believe in municipalism as a form of management closer to citizenship, and it seems good that progress is being made in the involvement of municipalities in many areas of government and, of course, we support the autonomy of municipalities to develop multiple policies. What really doesn't make sense, and what we see seriously dangerous, is that it's very difficult for the municipalities to fulfil the objectives that mark this bill because most of the municipalities don't have the resources or means necessary, economic or human, to be able to cope with these new functions which the Union, through this law, wants to transcend to the councils. Much less have resources after all the rules of Montoro, which have reduced – as you know perfectly – the local autonomy of the municipalities and which have assumed a backwardness of municipalism never seen since democracy. In this respect, the announced by law seems absolutely insufficient, because to make this effective, first, to believe in local autonomy and, of course, to give the necessary financial and human resources. The Union must incorporate technicians into the local administration and thus facilitate the municipalities to comply with this law, because, if it does not, if the number of wealth management technicians is not extended and it helps financially to the municipalities to develop this competition, this will not be possible. They also worry about us, Counsellor, another of the major innovations in this bill, which is the change in the categories of assets of cultural heritage, which goes from 3 categories to 2 and disappears from the inventory of goods, disappears the inventory of assets, leaving only the goods catalogued and the goods of cultural interest. It creates a census of cultural heritage which, as has already been said here, seems to be simply for the disclosure of goods that have not been declared culturally or catalogued. This implies a clear reversal in the protection of Galician cultural heritage, because in addition, article 14 of this bill states that the assets included in the census do not necessarily suppose that they have to be preserved when there is a cause of public interest. The problem is you understand for the public interest. And even more so when in the same article it says that the inclusion of a property in the census will not determine the need for prior administrative authorization for interventions on that right. We feel it is essential that this change, because, if this is so, we are faced with a very clear lack of protection of cultural heritage. This isn't the only thing we're worried about. In short, they worry, and much, about the reduction in participation in this law. The advisory and advisory bodies are reduced with regard to the current law. So we want to recover the technical commissions of archaeology, ethnography and museums, which this bill excludes. And we also want, because it is common sense, that the role of the Council of Greek Culture should be recovered, that we do not understand how it is not here as a consultative body, as well as the real academies of Galicia linked to heritage. Around the Way of Santiago, one of the new features of this law is to recast existing legislation. This looks good to us, but the problem is they leave unexplained roads, like the Route of the Arousa and Ulla Sea, and they leave in inferior conditions of roads like the Winter Road. There's a lot more, and there's already been some problems. Chronological criteria, Counselor, you know they're clearly insufficient. It's good that there's a chronological criterion, but it can't be the only one that sets out the need for cataloguing or not a certain asset. It was also appointed by the previous spokespersons to this relationship of privilege with the Catholic Church, which has not resulted in the past and will not result in the present, according to this law. And also the problems that Mrs. Pontón has named, which we too are very concerned about. The problem that you create to historians, archaeologists, documentists and other professionals of these subjects when they don't let them get closer to their cultural heritage, work with their cultural heritage, and this is perfectly changeable. In this law, of course, we are going to demand that these specialists, these professionals, also able to act around our heritage. Finally, Counsellor, we tend to reach agreements and consensus, but these are the problems we have observed, these are the problems we have made amends, these are the problems that have to change to a consensus, these are the problems that have to be solved if you want a positive vote on the Socialist Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also greet all the people who have attended this debate since the public's benches. I begin by saying that, indeed, territory, language, history, culture, constitute the fundamental pillars of our identity as a people. In developing its competence, the Government of the Council of Galicia has set as one of its priorities for the present legislation the development of a new draft cultural heritage law, a project which today is brought to debate as a result of the amendments to the whole formulated by some of the parliamentary groups. A project that encompasses the previous legislation and that, first of all, we have to state, from the People's Party, that we have no doubt of any kind about the need for it. Some of the amending groups set the groundwork and even the need for the bill, alleging that there is no critical assessment either of heritage management or of previous legislation, and making it clear that the issue could be resolved with a recast text or with a timely modification. We have strongly disagreed with that appreciation for two reasons. First of all, because in the explanatory statement, which is a fundamental teleological part of the law, an analysis is made of the current situation and of the previous legislation, and a favourable conclusion is reached. Secondly, because two basic circumstances must be taken into account. The first, that the law must always be an expression of the prevailing social will at a given time, and in that sense, beyond the circumstances of the passing of time, compete in this case clear circumstances that advise the processing of a new law. For example, the new demands of simplicity, security and clarity in the administrative process; the need for adaptation to international legislation and also the novelties that incorporate the bill, which reflect the social need that exists to solve them. Secondly, and above all, it must be noted that at present we can clearly see the existence of a large social majority in favour of the processing of this law as a new law. This is evident, for example, by the high social participation recorded in the pre-project allegations process. Multitudes of cultural institutions and entities, professional and private groupings have made demonstrations, and in the vast majority of them show compliance with the new law, and few have opposed the need for their processing. There are demonstrations of relevant tenants, of important social agents in the world of culture, who spoke clearly in favour of that new law. By setting an example, the president himself of the Council of Culture, who, at parliamentary headquarters, when he came to explain the budget of his department, clearly betted on the necessity of that new law. And even there is nothing more to see than the drawing here: more than two thirds of Parliament support the process of the new law; the People's Party expressly, the Socialist Party tacitly, because, although it is true that Mrs. Burgo said that the unnecessary way, she did not object to its processing as a new law. Logically, if you were to raise a question about it now, Mrs. Burgo, I'd have to remind you of what Napoleon said. In fact, only one fifth of Parliament is opposed to processing as a new law. Probably those who, rather than seeing social reality, want to create them a social reality or live behind what exists. As I said, today we have dealt with the bill by virtue of the amendments to the whole that demand its return. Certainly, many of these amendments actually have the nature of amendments to the articulate rather than to the whole. Others refer to purely factual matters. So let me make it synthesized, because it's impossible to do it in any other way, the reference to those that basically affect the general principles that inspire the law, which are the ones that must justify an amendment to the whole. First of all, and in this sense, the draft law of inaccuracy in the concept, definition, approach and, in particular, not to take into account the evolution of the concept of heritage. In this regard, we must point out that – as stated in the report of the Council of Culture presented in the process of allegations – the idea built by the Greek society on the concept of heritage is a finalistic and convergent idea. Cultural heritage must be conceived, in accordance with this criterion, as an integrated unit of material and intangible goods. Well, in this sense, we have to say that both the exposition of motives and the articulated text of the project include the criteria of cultural identity of the Greek people, social cohesion and sustainable development. Both the exposition of motives and the articulated text develop the value of heritage as a cultural acquis in emotional, historical and territorial aspects, therefore, it must be concluded that the concept of heritage in which the law is based incorporates this evolutionary concept, incorporates the integrative character referred to by the Council of Culture and also collects references to the intangible heritage. Therefore, Mr. Ron, there is no incompatibility or contradiction between the explanatory statement and the articulated text. The articulated text clearly reproduces the foundation of the explanatory statement, although something else is that, logically, each one has his ideological approach to what must be the heritage and what must be other things. Secondly, in relation to participation, social function, advisory bodies and advisers, some references are made to evas in this sense. It must be stressed that it is true that the bill is part of the recognition of the social character of property, but understood in the defence of heritage and that individual interests must yield in favour of the collective interest of enjoying the citizenship of cultural goods. But the participation of social agents interested in the conservation and protection of heritage is guaranteed throughout the text and practically in all proceedings, specifically the protection procedures. Unless the citizens' right to the enjoyment of goods is reflected in the explanatory statement. And also point out, Mr. Ron, that the public view is not collected in Article 36, but in Article 48. Also say that advertising is fully guaranteed. The reference here to the secret must be taken into account that it is an exceptional reference, in specific cases and in defence, precisely of the security of the goods which may be affected in this respect. As for the consultative bodies, it is true that the technical commissions of archaeology and ethnography have been removed, but they are done by legal prescription, according to the specific rules governing the organs of the Galician Union, and also because – precisely appreciating the assessment of the previous situation – they have been shown to have no practical effectiveness, but, in essence, the same structure of consultative bodies is maintained. And article 7, after the description you make, doesn't exclude the possibility that you look to other consulting bodies. By the way, in relation to the Council of Culture, there is no need for its express reference, since the constitution itself gives it powers in that matter. And with regard to advisory bodies, to say that their composition is not specifically collected, but refers to regulatory development. Another of the allegations made refers to the deprotection, insecurity and confusion regarding the management of the areas. I believe this is due to the confusion that the amenders have in relation to one of the important novelties introduced by the law to which he referred in his intervention the Counsellor, who are the Catalogue and the Census of Goods. Within the Catalogue, all existing movable, immovable and intangible assets, both those of the Catalog and those of the old Inventory, but one of the consequences of this innovation, are the fact that the types of goods, from the previous three categories, are reduced to only two categories; one integrated with the cultural interest goods, the BICs, that is, the underlying goods, and another integrated with the catalogued goods. And point out, as Mr. Counsellor has already done, that within this second category are included the goods that were previously in the old Inventory. Therefore, the Inventory does not disappear, but integrates into the Catalogue, and there is no reduction in protection, but only clarification of regulation in this regard. Regarding the claim that there is confusion with the census figure, hey! There is no confusion of any kind. The census collects the assets which are considered to have a cultural value but which are neither catalogued nor regarded as BIC, but does not consist of a new category of assets, which is a dissemination tool for knowledge and dissemination by citizenship, which must be updated permanently and which, on the other hand, can serve as a useful tool, for example, in matters such as urban catalogues or standards of protection. And with regard to the protective contours, to those that have been referred here, to say that there is no confusion of any kind, either with the protective environment, which is the most immediate area, or with the most distant area, which is the buffer area. In the protection environment, in principle, there is no need for authorization for proceedings, but there are limits to use and construction, which are specified specifically in Article 45 of the law. And as far as the buffer area is concerned, which is established for greater visualization and protection, which is not automatic, but it has to be specifically stipulated, the limitations are only those that are stipulated in each specific case and the generics referred to in Article 47. It's a regulation that meets international standards and incorporates itself with that criterion, and it has no technical complications in its artillery and in its implementation. A reference also to the question of the Town Councils. You have already explained to the Counsellor that there is no collision of any kind, nor is there any burden on the competences of the Galician Union, because the law expressly determines the assumptions that are excluded from the qualification and, at the same time, it is also stated that this qualification is not automatic or compulsory, it is strictly voluntary and whenever the municipalities meet certain conditions. But to me what draws my attention to this statement is the mistrust that you show towards municipal institutions. There's no basket of powers on the board because it's not about transfers, it's about collaboration. What can't be invoked is that of municipal autonomy and, at the same time, denying training to municipalities. And it must be remembered that we don't always have to refer to the municipalities as elements that are told and asked for, the municipalities have the ability to act on the margins, often those economic circumstances. In relation to the economic nature, by the way, I make an express reference because Mrs Pontón has introduced here a concept of demagoxy referring to the comparison between the spending on heritage and the City of Culture. I won't have to remind you. Mrs. Pontón, who exactly the Administration that most invested in relation to the City of Culture was the Bipartite Administration, governed by an advisor to the Nationalist Block of Galicia. So when you make references to this guy, you put your mirror in front of your face and then you can talk, if you think it's appropriate. Finally say, Mr. Counsellor, that we can make a very clear summary, proof overcome. The allegations actually made respond more to an ideological criterion than to matters of a social nature or even a technical-legal nature. We defend the goodness of the law; a law that has already explained in detail the counsellor, who pursues four fundamental objectives: decentralization and collaboration with other administrations, simplification and improvement of heritage management, adaptation to international legislation and regulation of new assets and giving greater legal certainty, as happens with the sanctioning regime...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u87	...that incorporates guarantees to avoid defence. A law that accords with the social reality of the present and which also collects the progress of international legislation, and a law that doesn't change the protection system, but basically the management system. Probably, the bill we present is not a perfect project, as everything is likely to improve, for that is the presentation procedure. We collected the consensus glove that Mrs Burgo was offering. We offer that same glove of consensus and dialogue, and we ask all parliamentary groups to do the same. We essentially ask for heights of vision, because surely the Greek society expects us to be able to light up a text that is at the level of the character that has the heritage as the fundamental pillar of our identity. And in view of the many ideological questions and questions that have been raised here, one last recommendation. As Voltaire would say, "At least dogma, less confusion; and less confusion, less misfortunes." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u88	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Replica of amending groups. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u89	Thank you, President. I want to remind Mr. Baamunde that they've been ruling for seven years, when he refers to the Bipartite, and that if they haven't solved the eves they've found in the Bipartite, they haven't done anything. With regard to the reasons – and I will go enumeration – for those who ask for the return of this text, with regard to the horrees, in Article 92, cruises and pockets of souls before 1901, are declared BIC by law. But what is – which has not yet clarified – the opposite limit? I mean, as long as we have to consider them popular buildings worthy of protection? Article 94.3 requires the existence of an archaeological value in a series of remains to be listed. But what about those who don't list? For example, what about the medieval remains?, the remains of the Modern Age?, or even of the Contemporary Age, like battlefields or escapes of inhumation? It will remain in the will of a non-specialized technical body, the interests of shift. The realization of the inventory of goods does not require it to be done by specialists, and this neglect has only one explanation: if you understand it as a way of undermining management. Nor is the inspection body defined, sanctions continue to be arbitrary and have never been profiled as a solution to problems or as a deterrent measure. I continue to insist on the low relevance of the law to professionals as inspectors, technicians or experts. For example, it is not necessary for the promoter to transmit an archaeological memory, when it comes to a constructive process, to achieve definitive licenses, and this is the only way that promoters pay for the memoirs and cover archaeologists who do. These shortcomings are also noted in technical committees for the authorisation of authorisations by means of specific agreements. And by the end, and by the way of conclusion, at the beginning of the intervention, I mentioned examples of heritage management carried out by this Government, the Government of Mr Feijóo, with the intention of making clear what it is and was the sensitivity of the current Government to the heritage. With these latest technical comments, I intend to show that the law does not enter into the fundamental problems of management and of the heritage and cultural protection that are currently being found in the various sectors, from the technical staff of the Administration to the owners. Nor does it improve the current legislation, which, even though it scatters, already exists. Therefore, I request your return to the Government to review it and bring us closer to a text that is more in line with the sensitivity and spirit of protection of the culture and heritage of Greek. That the project must be returned, it is endorsed by the number of partial amendments submitted by the opposition groups. The Socialist Party of Galicia, with 50, presented no amendments to the whole, but the rest of the groups presented 176, 201 and 204 amendments respectively. With this vast amount of amendments, what they should do is collect the text and introduce us to one that reaches the consensus of the whole House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u90	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u91	Before entering the valuation of the amendments, both from the BNG and the Joint Group, say some things that demonstrate, Mr. Baamonde, that the AGE don't live from back to cultural heritage. You will live in front, but you live in front of something fundamental, which is the law of the market, and I told you, it's introduced into the law. You didn't say anything about that, and it's logical, because it belongs to your neoliberal idea. In article 36, the one that regulates access to goods of cultural interest, you completely forget, for example, the right of citizenship, and at no time – I, after a detailed reading – there is the need for the Galician Union to coordinate a complete process of universal accessibility to the goods considered to be the most sovereign of our heritage. We're talking about universal accessibility. Here, when we discussed the universal accessibility law, those amendments that linked people's right to functional diversity to cultural heritage, it was said that they did not. We take this opportunity to do the same, to bind, because we cannot logically recognize the right of people with functional diversity to enjoy, to know, to recognize and to participate in everything we understand to enjoy cultural good. So we understand that you are living behind reality, and reality are the rights of citizenship, the rights of people, to live around you and enjoy your surroundings. And you, with this bill, what you're doing is quite the opposite: to introduce much more insecurity. In Article 12, the one who talks about the protection environment, you end up saying: Point 3. You can regularly fix... There is no obligation to set criteria for the delimitation of protection borders, not shown. They can. And we know perfectly well that, when you have an optional verb, the normal thing is that you don't continue to work to develop; the normal thing is that you just stop there. They can, but they won't. Why? Because that will logically complicate the management and protection of the cultural good. You speak of agility, you speak of speed, at this time so virtual and fast, to precisely accelerate a process that can lead to the destruction of a cultural good, as has happened – and it has already been spoken – at night and in a syslin manner, best under the stones of a viaduct, where a chest has disappeared without more responsibility. You will continue to say that you defend the good. The Socialist Party's voicer has already said so, most of the inventory goods, 30% no longer exist. Why? Is it not possible to hear self-criticism on the part of the People's Party in this regard? Do you think they did it and they do it all right? You think what happened to the castle in Monterrey is okay? Are you okay? Well, we understand that no, that you're not doing things right. In this bill, what you do is you confront. They often confront each other. Usually, in education they confront workers, and here, what they do, precisely, is to lower the specialization to a mere concept of training or a little ethereal qualification, to, precisely, despise in a certain way all those people who are being trained in the disciplines that have to do with our historical, cultural and natural heritage, which are, curiously, those disciplines that neoliberalism does not want to see in the faculties. And so we know a process of permanent decay of all that humanity is in our university system. If you take this bill and analyze it, Mr. Román, you look at how many times an optional verb is introduced and how many times a further regulatory development is introduced, and you'll see that this is what we have is deprotection and more legal insecurity. And with regard to the amendments of the BNG and the Joint Group, we share the same philosophy, because it involves the same crucial aspects that have to do with de-protection, with disqualification and with the lack of resources and means, which are the ones that you, since they rule, have weakened the possibilities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u93	...that the public good, which is a heritage good, be a good of all Greeks and Greeks. So -- as I said before -- there's nothing left but the return, and we'll see if throughout the work that can be done -- because we know that the absolute majority will make this happen -- if you're really willing to dialogue. And we'll see if we can improve what is very difficult to improve, because – I repeat – the ideological concept, the conceptual, the procedural, the politician, does not coincide with anything that defends the Alternative Left Galeg. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u95	Thank you very much. I'm going to start with a question that starts to be very recurring in recent times in this House, and that to me it seems indecent that a member of the People's Party tells us that the responsibility for the existence of the City of Culture is the BNG, it's the one who sends tricks! And I'm going to say that it's indecent for two reasons: firstly, because the only political force that you're sitting in this Parliament who criticized and who said it was a real nonsense building the City of Culture was the BNG, and secondly, because all the works that were adjudicated in the City of Culture were a government of the PP, which also helped two buildings with the Government in functions, and that therefore the rest of governments what they did was pay for the works of the City of Culture that Mr. Fraga Iribarne hired; by the way, two buildings in the time of discount, when he was already in office. So to me it seems to me that the least you could have is a little bit of humility and recognize the tremendous mistake of starting those works that are being seen as a scourge to culture. And it's not demagogy to say that it's more dedicated to the City of Culture than to the protection of heritage, it's to describe reality. A reality, I have to tell you, which is very sad, because we have a very important part of the Greek heritage falling apart, while you've wasted millions of euros in the City of Culture. That is, of course, to define reality. And I think, in any case, if you think it's okay, defend it, and if you think it's not right, they close the City of Culture. To tell you a couple of questions, too, that I think are important. This law does not simplify or improve the protection of heritage, it is more, in one part – where it has to do with cataloguing and inventory – that will make the situation much more difficult. We too would like to know where some goods are at the moment, such as goods of cultural interest and the regime of visits, because there is one part, which is the additional provisions, which attract much attention. In additional fifth provision, "declared wells of cultural interest", it is said that "in the five years of the entry into force of this law, the Council will identify and implement the goods declared of cultural interest or catalogued under this law." Then, in the following additional provision, he says: " Within three years of the entry into force of this law, persons with goods of cultural interest shall communicate to the competent council on cultural heritage the conditions and the timetable for public visits." We'd like to know if this means that for three years the owners of goods of cultural interest have no obligation to do or facilitate visits to citizens. Because it's a very important retreat that deserves clarification. It's also curious what happens with the Galician Cultural Heritage Catalogue, which gives us what's going to be the deployment and what's going to be done on the basis of the inventory. You are very calm about this document, because all they say about the Catalogue of Cultural Heritage is that it takes one year to make a regulation that sets the format of the Catalogue of Cultural Heritage. And it also gives the municipalities five years to start saying what the goods are included in the municipal catalogues that must integrate the Catalogue of Cultural Heritage. That is, at this point we continue to derive from the elaboration of instruments years, years, and years; with a practice, of course, that we already know that these types of forecasts are never met, that deadlines are not met, and that therefore this law is also in this sense deprotecting the heritage much more. Damping zones and protective contours. It's said here, they're no longer mandatory, they're optional, and they're even allowed in the buffer zones fixed or provisional installations. A series of latitudes are established in the protection of the contour of the goods that goes against the criteria themselves, which say that when a good declares it needs a zone of contiguous protection, because good is not only the good in itself, but has a series of space that makes up the identity of that good and that must be protected. Well, all of this is clearly emptyed out of content here. We keep insisting that this law is not a law that means progress, but in some respects it is a law that goes backwards. I mentioned the counselor who wanted to be unburocratized, because we could deburocratize it – as we propose in our amendments – by reducing procedures, which all they do is dilating the process for the declaration of goods of cultural interest. If you want to speed up the management of the heritage, you have the Galician Board of Technical Means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u97	...for your management. The grave thing is that this is like a leap in the void, they come at the last hour with a law to try to cover up the outcome that they have produced in this country's heritage. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Let us begin the vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the Ditam and the amendments to the Ditam drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Galician Soil Bill. We begin with the amendments tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group. There is a request from the Socialist Parliamentary Group for a separate vote on Amendment No 34. Don't you? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the debate there was... then there is, perfect. We then begin by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Planning, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Galician Soil Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u99	We then vote on the amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Glaga from Left to Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the ground of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u100	We then vote on the amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the grounds of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u101	And we voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the draft law of the ground of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u102	And we now vote on the Commission's Ditam, with the amendments incorporated, if that were the case, which in this case is not. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 2nd, Territorial Order, Public Works, Environment and Services, on the Galician Soil Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 31. The result of the vote is negative. It is therefore approved or issued.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u103	We then vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill. We started with the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. Mixed (Doc. # 45161) submitted to the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 15; votes against, 41; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u104	We then voted on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left (Doc. # 45168) presented to the draft law of Galician cultural heritage. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 15. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u105	Finally, we voted for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. Voting of the amendment to the total refund of G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego (Doc. # 45169) submitted to the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 41; abstentions, 15. The result of the vote is negative. This refund amendment is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u106	The bill therefore follows its procedure. As previously noted, we are now debating point 3 which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of prevention and comprehensive protection against gender violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u107	This motion was tabled by two amendments, one from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u108	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u109	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Again, as in the past four months, we are debating again in this Parliament about the violence of the macho and gender-based violence. And in this case, a motion that is the result of an interpellation in the previous plenary session with the vice president himself on the situation we are living at this time and the assessment made by the Government of Greece and the measures it considers the Government of Greece should be implemented in the face of a situation that qualified a newspaper these days, which is that "machist violence begins to be a matter of state." Interestingly, eleven years after a comprehensive law is passed, after nine years with a German law, it is picked up in the press that "it starts to be a state problem." Shouldn't it have been a state problem for the last few decades? Well, the truth is that there are also many of the data we've been repeating on occasion from this gallery, which I think it's good that we think about them again. From the integral law to last year, to 2015, more than one million complaints in the Spanish state of male violence. I think it's a fact that should make us think, stop, especially bearing in mind that a large part of these allegations simply mean the tip of the iceberg of what the problem really is. Well, over 800 dead women in the Spanish state, 40 dead women in Galicia, murdered women in Galicia. Also another important fact, nearly 3,000 economic aids to break the lives of the aggressors, just after we know our own sociological analyses as one of the most expensive issues, and which, in addition, repeatedly put women on the table when they call 016, on the phone to listen to Galician women, is like breaking up their cohabitation with the batterer, with the aggressor. That's why this motion picks up a basic aspect, what do we do? We saw debates about the need to introduce a new category of analysis, such as feminicide, and that it had modified the legal system, and that it had also taken, that it had brought, greater attention, greater protection to women victims of macho violence. We have seen this debate on numerous occasions, on more than three occasions in this House, and we still do not have the necessary consensus to actually introduce this category and modify our legal system. I hope that comes and that we can see it both in the integral law and in the Greek law. But today what is put for debate, to find if, indeed, we are all in agreement, is, is, is there a lack of means in Galicia regarding the treatment and support of women who suffer from gender-based violence? Our position is yes. There is such a lack of means. The experts themselves, the social workers themselves, the College of Psychology, the director of the Imelga, the directors of the reception homes, the directors of the information centres to women and the associations themselves, who work every day with women victims of gender violence, have put out a statement in the Committee on Equality Study, which deals with the topic of violence against men, that they do exist, in all areas, from the field of prevention – which is not a matter of what we are dealing with in this motion – up to the scope of the accompaniment: in the medical care, in the psychological assistance, in accompanying in the search for employment, in the accompanying of economic assistance. I would like to remind you that we are still debating whether you can ask for it all year round, and you cannot ask for it all year long, something that has already been clearly shown empirically, but that I like to bring it to debate, because on many occasions it has been in doubt that you can do it in your own accompaniment and in the protection by the Security Forces and Corps and of your own accompaniment from the judicial field. That is, the lack of resources, the lack of judges, the lack of training for the people involved, for all legal operators: from judges, magistrates, even administrative officials. I mean, we still have the challenge of providing material and human resources with the laws that are in force, in addition to, indeed, modifying them, if necessary, to improve them in what has to do with visibility and also with the support and allocation of those resources. That is why this motion is really simple: drawing up a plan of urgent measures. If we assess 2015 and if we evaluate previous years, we see that there is no decrease in the number of complaints, nor do they diminish the indicators that youth is more aware, nor do they diminish the indicators that there are fewer women killed, nor does it diminish any kind of indicator that we can use in the reports that Parliament sends us to the General Secretariat of Equality. That's why we made this motion. A plan of urgent measures is being developed that simply draws the provisional conclusions of this Study Commission in which we are all working and of which the Government is aware, which takes into account, above all, the most urgent contributions made by the College of Social Workers, the College of Psychology, the Immelga, the directors of the information centres themselves, the directors of the houses of her picked up and also the victim associations. In any case, since we are aware that this Commission is going to speed up its work, we are prepared to extend this period from one month to two months; but indeed, two or two months and a half months, which is considered to be a clear deadline, with a clear budget allocation and clear measures regarding social assistance, psychological assistance and judicial assistance. That's why I want to read the motion, because we know exactly what simplicity is what we're voting for: First, to draw up an urgent plan of measures to eradicate male violence in Galicia, where these conclusions from experts and women's associations are present. Secondly, it will be budgeted through a modification, if any, to improve this plan. Third, that the regulatory amendments will be pushed forward, and I still believe it would be important that before this legislation was finished, that in this session, we were able to introduce this regulatory amendment to include the term feminicide and all that comes from its inclusion. Fourth, without prejudice to the previous and urgent nature, already in this call, in the 2016 call, that the economic aid, called the wage of freedom, had no time to close, i.e., that it had been open all year in a similar way, for example, to the way Risga is. And, fifth, indeed, as a matter of urgency, that the Administration of Justice provides all human, technical and material means for the judges of gender-based violence. We are even seeing as in the city of Ourense, or in the city of Lugo, we ask on repeated occasions for a trial of our own. We consider it important that this is the case, but it is that those who are working, as is the case of Vigo's trial, on repeated occasions have to leave their own workers and workers themselves, the court itself, demanding human and technical means for reporting and so that the cases are not really delayed. Therefore, the endowment of all means. And finally, within the field of the administration of justice, training in masculine violence is of course essential, absolutely fundamental. We're seeing it with all kinds of judgments and debates about, for example, custody, children and daughters, problems that we've seen these days as they arise and where women themselves are again victimized or revitalized. Training in the field of violence is a pending subject in all departments of the Union of Galicia. But it's probably more urgent about the Department of Justice. We believe that after this 2015, of what has been lived in 2015, of the repeated occasions when the Government and the parliamentary groups had to keep minutes of silence, that the least we should do is not only, indeed, analyze the situation, which is our obligation, but rather the elaboration of a simple, short, budgeted plan of urgent measures, which contemplate, at least, those that have to do with workers and social workers, that is, with training centres for women where they exist, and where there are no such social workers of the municipalities; that they have to do with the measures in the field of health, in the field of incorporation into work and in the purchase of housing in order to rent, in the field of economic accompaniment, through the wage of freedom, and in the field of justice, with the necessary means, which at this time are being far below the minimum. That's what all the people who intervened in the Commission said, but we're also seeing it in the rest of the women's associations that had to go out every day asking for more means and more resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u110	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u111	I think it's a motion, of course, absolutely clear, nothing, that we can't trust everything to the Commission's dictate, that we should start working. Of course, the Government should do so, but I believe that also the honourable Members who are part of the Committee on Equality are prepared to form part of this working group of urgent measures for the eradication of gender-based violence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u113	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Well, to say that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the measures presented by the BNG Parliamentary Group today to combat gender-based violence, whether they accept our amendment or not, although, of course, we hope that it will be taken into account. Proposals, those of this motion, those tabled today, and those of our own amendment, in your case, Mrs Adam, derived from the conclusions of the Committee on Research, and our consequences of the adoption of last plenary session in this House itself. But proposals that both demonstrate two things: one, that there are deficiencies in the attention of women victims of violence, that the Government of the Union can, can, can, can, may, may, and may, in addition, must! I'll deal with it urgently. And another thing that demonstrates these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, is that neither from the BNG Parliamentary Group nor the Socialists Parliamentary Group do we believe the People's Party's commitment to violence. That's why, and even though a non-law proposal was unanimously adopted in the last plenary session in which many of these measures were collected, we are now asking them again. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, particularly to the Government of the Union, that in the last plenary session, with the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group, including Mr Feijóo, the President of the Union, we have approved the increase in the resources of services and budgets to combat and prevent violence. That's why today in our amendment we are demanding from the Government of the Union that, before a month or so, through this emergency plan that Mrs. Adam proposes, he undertakes to ensure immediate psychological attention, immediately from the moment the abuse is detected. And moreover, it continues; moreover, enough; moreover, until the professional criterion considers it necessary; and, moreover, for all – I stress that of all – people who are victims of gender-based violence. And as in last plenary session we also unanimously approved our request to increase budgets to prevent violence, today we have asked the Government of the United Nations to initiate a campaign to raise awareness of machismo within one month, against abuse, against prostitution and against, ladies and gentlemen, any other form of gender-based violence directed at the adolescent population. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that all of you – I insist – including Mr Feijóo, the president, voted in favour of incorporating in the curriculum specific training in equality, in affective-sexual education and prevention of gender violence at all educational stages on which Galicia is competent. So we'll be, ladies and gentlemen, very careful that the Government will carry out that agreement, because we think it's very necessary. A few days ago in a newspaper it was reported that most of the German schoolchildren -- speaking exactly of 63.5% -- don't believe in equality. Conclusion, by the way, which was reached in a study conducted by the University of Santiago based on a survey conducted in 340 children's and primary centers. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is only as long as this committed curriculum adaptation is prepared, I insist, in this House, if you are going to carry out this campaign that we are asking for today. Finally, Mrs. Adam, in our amendment to addendum, we insist again on the need to analyze and properly study what happened in those cases where the woman is murdered even after she has made the complaint. What's going on, ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? Why can't we guarantee security to a woman who – as you said very well in her inquiry – was able to make the complaint by winning fears and shame, to that woman who can also believe her, who doesn't question her, and who does not take her complaint into account? How can we not guarantee her safety when in order to protect her we turn away from her life, from her people? It's urgent, ladies and gentlemen, urgent, urgent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u115	...–Yes, it ends – that in the field of self-government, and in a cross-sectional manner, a commission of study and follow-up of cases in which the woman victim of gender violence was murdered after she had made the complaint, even after having obtained an order of protection. We hope our amendment will be taken into account. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Today, Mrs. Adam, as you have already said, brings here the debate of a motion, after the interpellation that was debated in the past plenary session, on the need to amend the state and Welsh laws on gender violence. The truth, Mrs. Adam, is that you did an exhibition that somehow we can share, but I think sometimes more deeply and, perhaps, disagree in form. I want to say that both in the intervention of the adviser and in the debate of the non-legislative proposal adopted in the past plenary session, it became clear that this Government has been strengthening measures and also articulating new instruments and expanding budgets year after year, and you know it, in order to improve both prevention and protection of victims. We believe that it is necessary to continue to expand new measures, and that these measures are more effective; we believe that there is also a need for everyone's consensus to be able to modify those things that need to be changed for women's safety. To this end, you know that the Non-Permanent Equality Commission has also been set up, which, for the first time, deals exclusively with this issue, the proposal of our parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u118	Quiet, please. Silence! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u119	...in which all government departments, as well as professional experts on this subject, are coming together in addition to the various groups that carry out their work in the attention of the victims of gender-based violence. These contributions, at least in our case, allow us to better understand the tools and also the measures that are being applied, as well as the need to articulate other news for battered women. And also, without a doubt, for the people who depend on them, who are equally victims. So it's not just a matter of designing new plans, but rather that these plans are coordinated and effective, that involve everyone and that they collect all those necessary improvements. In this sense, we present our amendment, and what do we propose in our amendment? First, we propose to include in the Commission's non-permanent work plan the appearance of these legal experts, who proposed the various groups of the House, in order to be able to evaluate the inclusion of both the term feminicide, which you said here, in the Greek law, as well as other possible legislative amendments that may be necessary. We have already stated on other occasions that the term feminicide is a claim in those countries that have the highest homicide rates in the world, which are not only for gender issues, countries that also do not have specific laws. It's a controversial term and we'd like to have more knowledge about it. We propose, in this sense, to speed up the Commission's non-permanent work plan as soon as possible to have the dictatorship, and we propose that within the area of the Gender Violence Observatory, which we believe is the most appropriate body, if this new plan of measures is drawn up, based on all the recommendations gathered in the dictatorship, in order to improve coordination between the various institutions, as well as the care the victims need. We propose that this new plan be forwarded also to all those agencies and different entities so that they can implement it as far as possible, and so improve. So is there a need for a plan to take the necessary measures to combat gender-based violence? We believe that yes, but we want a new plan that follows a chronological order, we want a new plan that has vigency over time, we want a new plan that is effective and coordinated, because if we don't stand before a new document – I think it is of little use – that it may not provide the answers to the problems that arise and that we would like it to be otherwise. Because, moreover, I believe that we have an obligation for these measures to be taken and put in place, and to meet the objectives that we all want, which is to fight against this scourge. So, therefore, I ask you to like it, because it is in your hand, to be able to accept our amendment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u121	Thank you, President. For it is a problem of massive masculine violence. In statements made by the spokesmen of the different political groups who achieved representation in the last election call, they demonstrate as one of the common priority issues of combating terrorism, and this is created as a state-owned matter of party interests. I wish I could have given the same importance to the masculine violence and the same means and resources. Because male violence is a form of violence that is practiced against women, half of humanity, by being sealed, in an exercise of domination and submission through fear, such as political terrorism. It acts in different contexts and forms: in the family, in the relationships of couples, in the harassment of work, in the workplace, in the wars, in the trafficking of whites, in sexual exploitation, in genital mutilation – which I would like to remind you that this is something that has already affected us directly in the Spanish state by the phenomenon of immigration –. It also acquires different forms: physical, psychological and emotional abuse, economic abuse, and it is always supported by patriarchy and monotheistic religions, which consider us women inferior to men and place us as a property, as an object, and take us from all kinds of rights and autonomy. Some data showing the magnitude of this social scourge, as a result of this patriarchal thought, are the murder of 612 women throughout the state in an eight-year period between 2007 and 2015. And another fact, the rape of 1,127 women in 2015. And it's official data that never collects the whole of the real. 612 murders recorded over an eight-year period, gentlemen. A figure that goes far beyond the victims of political terrorism and also the victims of traffic accidents in the same period of time. Some data worthy of being considered a matter of state, which I will refer to – from now on – as male or gender terrorism, by the number of victims, because it affects a sector of society by its sexual status and by its overall and structural character. The law order of the year 2004, which was born from the consensus, suggested a great advance as to the one which rescued the masquerading violence from the private sphere to place it in the social context. But it reduces its scope of application to violence perpetrated by men against women who maintain or maintain a conjugal or affectionate relationship, which leaves many victims unprotected, such as prostitutes, harassed at work, sex slaves, mutilated... The term feminicide would correct this ejaculate by extending the crime by male violence, by male terrorism, to all of them how many terrorist acts are committed against women by being sealed. As for the protection of victims and prevention, it's clear, it's very clear to all, that something doesn't work well. Only about 30% of battered women file a complaint, and 20% of them withdraw it during or before the criminal trial. And many of the murdered women, as Mrs. Acuña said, were murdered by the abusers in order of examination. Why is this happening, gentlemen? Why is this happening? The system of coordination, the system of resources and accompaniment does not work as necessary to cover what is understood as an alarm situation in the face of the real threat of death that these women suffer and their offspring. The lack of investment, the cuts applied in recent years and the lack of training of staff involved in a transversal rule are not the best tools if we meet the actual data. When a woman decides to denounce the aggressor, from that moment on, she must immediately count on protective measures, as well as legislative measures that allow her to escape the hell that touched her to live. Measures that could be taken in a possible feminicide victim status. A specific status of victims of male terrorism. If the existing legislation was born of consensus and will...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u123	...of all, I appeal today to the consensus reached by Mr Rueda, in response to Mrs. Adán, in this Chamber, in the motion that precedes this motion – the end, the President –; and also in agreement with which the laws, the Greek law of 2007 and the previous one of 2004. A consensus needed to amend the laws in order to move forward more effectively in the fight against gender terrorism, and which may begin to manifest itself by the People's Party with its affirmative vote on this motion. I agree with this motion, which the Joint Group will support with its vote. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u124	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u125	Thank you, President. A woman, said so here, killed every week, 830 officers since 2003 and a rape every eight hours. And it's probably the most visible, the only visible law of machismo in the Spanish state, with a law of gender violence which is not complied with in many terms and with a law in Galicia which is not fully complied with. Unfortunately, that machismo that kills is not only violence understood as such in regulations and laws, Machism is not only physical violence, nor even the most obvious psychological abuse. Machism feeds on violence, so Machism kills. It is not only responsible who takes, who abuses, but who consents, who looks to the other side, who discriminates or who minimizes the existing machismo. Also in the political groups. Last Friday, we met, a terrible fact was also said here, that 63% of the directors and directors of the Greek educational centers detected that most children considered women and men unequal, and 60% considered that the materials used, especially textbooks, contain, continue to contain, prejudices and gender stereotypes. In the past we have already said that the feminization of poverty, the social and economic inequality of women, along with non-egalitarian education, were probably at the heart of inequality and machoism. We also shifted the seriousness of the failure to comply with the minimums envisaged by the United Nations in its suspension on CEDAW, the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. We remember in the past I fill the pay gap that in Galicia is around 20%, we talk about differences in contributions to social security and in subsequent pensions, and we remember that for every man who works part-time, there are 2.5 women in part-time, more than twice as much. I mean, for every 10, 25. We remember that 60% of the people who earn social integration income in Galicia are women, we remember the dependency cuts and how they affect us, the double or triple inequality for emigrant women, too, but the People's Group decided that no action should be taken on the recommendations of that UN committee. And despite the demands in the Commission not the Permanent for Equality between Women and Men of this Parliament, despite all these testimonies, because we have been almost two years old, and this failure to comply with the legality denounced by many of the women and many of the people who have come to attend, we continue to take as an excuse that we do not have on the table the Commission's dictation as to take the measures, as if the Government had no legislative capacity to correct or implement measures that correct those things that are not being done right. We speak to the satiety, precisely, of periodic aid to victims, as a paradigmatic example of something which has been denounced on multiple occasions, and which has even been denied entry on several occasions by the People's Party, which could not be applied for this aid throughout the year. It is argued, contrary to reality, that throughout the year there could be a request for help, as we all know, which is not. And today it hasn't even been corrected, that I set an example because we talk about it many times, and it's as obvious, and we don't need to have a say in a commission of inquiry, do we? We speak to the satisfaction of the lack of sufficient training in public service, legal operators; we have often brought it here and no real action has been taken. We will support this proposal not of law, but we denounce from here that we do not observe any real will by the People's Government, nor by the People's Group, to work against this Machism in a real way, and unfortunately I regret, frankly, here the amendment of the PP, because I am very respectful and will not tell here what is being discussed at the private meetings, but the Government quoted us to the spokespersons of the Equality Commission to make a proposal on matters related to that catalogization of the term feminicide and what it involved, and before we have a meeting the voices to decide that we are going to make about that proposal, it turns out that it comes as an amendment from the People's Party. It seems to me to be a complete disrespect for the Commission's spokesmen. I don't know why they consult us at a meeting. We've been rocking here for three years in this Parliament on equality, and in the meantime – and I'm done already – inequality is the bread of every day for all women in our country. Meanwhile, and as we continue to argue here, I repeat once again: a woman raped every eight hours and 830 murdered throughout the state since 2003.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Author group of Mrs. Adam's motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u127	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs. Ouvigna, we can discuss your amendment, which is a substitution amendment, but we are asking the motion for an urgent action plan, urgent! Urgent means in a brief period of time, with the clearest issues that have been detected in that Commission, which I think we have summarized, that we have discussed them here for active and passive, which refer to psychological accompaniment, to the wages of freedom, to legal operators, which are very concrete measures, which I think we can all agree on, and you propose that we do the dictates. It has our verbal commitment to speed up the Commission and to do the dictates as soon as possible, but that dictates it will take a month, two months, we cannot have it for now, but we do have the provisional conclusions. You propose that once the dictatorship is done it should be sent to the Government, as is mandatory, that the Government refer it to the Observatory for Gender Violence and that the plan be made there, that it then be sent to the entities, so that we really say, an extensive plan. That, what is it?, five, six, seven months, at least. Necessarily, necessarily. We therefore call for a plan of urgent measures, regardless of the dictates to be made, that it is actually sent to the Monitoring Centre for Gender Violence, which, of course, should already be implementing this plan, and it seems that we are starting from zero. I remind you that there are plans for gender-based violence here at least in the last sixteen years, which I remember, with which there is a plan behind it against gender-based violence. What we are asking for is a plan of urgent measures, with the shortcomings identified in the Equality Commission, which highlighted the people themselves who appeared there in four very specific areas. As Mrs Solla said, we have not even come into the field of prevention, and in the field of education, because, in this Parliament, an equality plan has already been approved for the entire Education Council and for all the centres dependent on it. At some point this equality plan will actually take all preventive measures with regard to gender-based violence, because we can be here approving things and then not done. I have no problem with sitting down and looking at the two amendments, and incorporating, of course, the Socialist Party, but we are not going to change that a plan of urgent measures is drawn up, but already, regardless of whether we all speed up the work of the Commission, which I believe they do have the commitment of the spokesmen to accelerate them and to develop that dictation. We believe, moreover, that we need to take one step beyond the elaboration of the dictatorship, that the Government feels and tells us what the four urgent measures are, that we can take and go out and tell women, that it decides the society that is being adopted after two years of study, regardless of the dictatorship. I don't think it could have been this motion, but at least it couldn't have been this motion, and you have to present your will. We are prepared to speed up the dictatorship, but at the same time that this plan of urgent measures is drawn up, which takes up the four basic aspects in which we all agree and, above all, the experts match, the women's associations, coincide in that need to provide material and humanly the means necessary for women who suffer from macho violence to feel accompanied and protected. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Maria Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the development in Galicia of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Persons in a Dependency Situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u129	This motion has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u130	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. As we have already spoken on repeated occasions in this Parliament, the situation of the application of the dependency law in Galicia is, of course, unsatisfactory for users, for potential users and, above all, more satisfactory for people who have been legally recognized for years and who have not yet had the benefits or economic or services that this right recognized them. It must be remembered that we have around 24,000 people on the waiting list at this time with that recognized right, we must remember that Galicia as far as development rates are concerned is the third Autonomous Community in the queue in relation to dependency care and that it has several indicators under the state average, including coverage of care systems, the waiting list, public residential squares, home aid or teleassistion. These last three public residential squares, home aid and teleassisción explain, in part, the failure of the law of dependence in our autonomous community, a law of dependency which in 2015, we just finished, only incorporated into the system 2,819 people and which, surprisingly to all of us, announced to us the Social Policy Adviser that by 2016 would serve 10,000 people, something we told him for active and passive since the Socialist Group that it was literally impossible, why? Well, because the figures show that. To begin with, because the average expenditure per dependent person and year in our autonomous community since the establishment of the Dependency Act requires that with the fiscal increase of 2016, at most, being optimistic, we could meet 3,400 people; therefore, the numbers do not match, and because we already found out what was the intention of the People's Group, which was to increase through the books. That is, if up to now the libraries were a resource of the last ones to be applied in the Dependency Act – it was necessary to prioritize public services and libraries only if they were granting to minors, to persons over 90 and to those who had previously recognized librarianship – that the criterion was changed in December 2015 and they were beginning to award librarianships with the excuse – according to the counsellor himself and the secretary-general recognizes in the Commission and the councillor in plenary – that there are many people who are asking for books. Of course, what you don't say at the same time is that billing is being granted, we're talking about 50 and 60 euros monthly and we're talking about paying late till 2023 to people over 80 years old, who actually recognized here in this gallery that are excessively long deadlines, he said. We believe that the delays owed to these people by rights recognized in 2009, 2010, 2011 and so on, we have to make them effective at the moment and not make a deferred fractional payment, as is customary for the People's Party. Well, with this situation in which we are – as I said – in virtually all the parameters below the state average, and that we are the third in the autonomous communities with the worst behavior, what we bring here with this motion today is not more than what the Government had to be doing, which is to implement a plan of shock to make effective that right of those people who are on standby today even today and who have been able to deal with these delays that have been recognised and prioritized in that recognition of public squares instead of books. We also ask to equate public spending in dependence per inhabitant and year at least to the state average, because once again we insist that we can't do more with less, and with less resources what is done, of course, is less attention, and that's why we have this waiting list. And of course, it's clear that doing public squares or giving public services instead of giving bribes is more expensive for the autonomous administration's archives, but it's also true that this increase in cost for the autonomous administration's buildings translates into greater employability in this sector, which is something that we would appreciate taking into account the unemployment rates and the chronification of unemployment that we have in our autonomous community. In this motion we demand again, to reiterate, that the State be required the money it owes us for the fulfilment of the minimum level agreed by the Dependency Act, which are – we calculate – more than 111 million euros since Mr Rajoy's rule. And we insist, the central government never complied with what was established in the Dependency Law as to funding, but it is clear that 40% of them made the former Central Government against 19% of what Mr. Rajoy came, there are still differences. And then, finally, we asked once again to cancel those reassessments made in Galicia, which they did was to lead many people to the expulsion of the system, because they valued them with less dependence than they had recognized and because what they did was with the increase in the trees also making it very difficult for many people to be able to cope with the coke to be in day centers, or to be in residential centers, and they're literally expelling those people from these centers and returning them to homes, which it means, above all, to women. We have just talked about the previous motion for violence against men and the behaviors of our society, because here too, in compliance with the law of dependence, the Government is exercising policies that run counter to the interests of women, because every time a dependent person is not cared for by the law of dependence and by the public services, where he goes to home, and who pays the consequences of that person's returning to care in the home are mostly women. And I know, because it's always like this, that they're going to be shielded that the budget has increased and that the dependents cared for have increased. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that being proud that in almost eight years of Mr. Feijóo's government, if you attended 14,000 people, in addition to the 28,000 people who were attended when you reached the Government, is an absolute failure to our judgment, because with much more resources, indeed, the fact is that what is being done is creating a waiting list that, in many cases, what is generating is discouraged in the population likely to have this right in the Law of Personal Self-Government, and the renunciation of people with that right to request it, because it is virtually impossible. So I believe that the proposals we make are reasonable, have already been made on many occasions. So far the People's Party has always refused to respond to these proposals, which are, moreover, the fruit of the many conversations we have had with all the organizations that work with dependent people, but what is needed to comply with these proposals is political will, and so far – the trial of what is being done with compliance with the Law of Dependency – the political will of the Government of the People's Party, both in Galicia and in Madrid, is dismantling the way of the facts of this law, because unless the measures taken to cut people's rights, to increase their shoulders and even to eliminate, for example, the social security of caregivers. Now the criteria are changed, and it is used again to some libraries that were the last available resource, with the excuse, indeed, that people ask for it, but nothing is said of these poor aids of 50 and 60 euros a month to remove people from the waiting list and to be able to present a better balance of results than they have been presenting until now, but that nothing really does to guarantee the rights of people who have the right – and it is worth redundancy – to the benefits of the personal autonomy law. I hope, of course, that the opposition groups support this initiative, and I have frankly less hope in the People's Group, because the change made by the Government and the advisors was clearly a cosmetic change, and it is demonstrated every day when we bring an initiative from the opposition to solve the problems that result in the fulfilment of the Dependency Act in our autonomous community, which I insist is those of the worst behavior of the state, the third in the queue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u132	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u133	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Persons in Dependency served nine years in January, and was dying for annoyance as soon as they started. First came the economic crisis and the drastic cuts in the budget, the cuts, the deployment of the tree, the low efficiency in the assessment of the degree of dependence and the execution of the budget. State and Union governments don't hurt dependent people -- mostly disabled people and older people -- because they take advantage of their vulnerability to ridicule their social rights. Galicia ages, we have the picture of an old woman with wrinkles, IGE data shows a population greater than 65 years of age, which is 20% of the total, and a population greater than 75 years of age, which is 8.7% of the total. Galicia occupies the last positions of the Spanish State in services and squares to care for older people, i.e., is the seventh community with less per capita expenditure in dependence, of 88.67 euros, compared to the state average that is at 104.49 euros. According to the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services Galicia does not approve in dependence, this suspension is justified because it has 24% of its dependents waiting to receive the benefit, and it is the second community with more people waiting for it. It is also added that the number of serious dependents falls on 7.3%, due, on the one hand, to the deaths and the hardening of barriers, remaining as a fourth classified, only behind Balearics, Cantabria and Murcia. Is it the lack of rigour that makes us go to the state queue as far as dependency? Galicia is within communities that take an average of 210 days to give the aid to dependent people, who have already recognized this right, as the report of the Dependency Observatory collects. And for bloody examples, some of the IAP solutions, we found applications submitted in 2009 and 2010 that were approved and resolved in 2015. Now, part of the monthly counties granted to delays are given a fraction of them for several years. And in other cases he overcomes the obligation to resort to justice to claim his rights, because the German Government neither sees nor hears nor speaks. These hopes, along with the crowd, cause the family to return to care, without any kind of economic aid, and especially in women, who return to the roles of the home and the family, sacrificing their working life and returning on an equal footing. It's recommended to enter residences, because they have a better specialized follow-up, the Galician ratio is 2.8 squares per 100 larger people, while the state average is 4.3 squares per 100 potential users. In this community there are only 29 public residences, which do not reach 3,000 offered squares, and 65 private people with concert, which offer 5,700 squares. Private residences, on the contrary, amount to 126 of them all, and offer about 8,000 squares. These disproportions are also found in day-to-day residences, if we compare public and private supply. The waiting lists in public residences exceed 8,000 demands, and the staff cuts are applied. And the lack of public squares also causes another problem, the paradox that residences are assigned to another end of the country, causing distance from family ties and promoting entry into private residences closer to their population. Increasing investment in these services is paramount, not only to improve people's attention and quality, but also to provide a decentralizing job opportunity. For Cermi Galicia, Committee of Entities represented by Persons with Disabilities, the criteria of co-ordination are unacceptable, as they want an extension for those people who get less than 2.5 times the public indicator of multiple-effect income, which sets a maximum approach per person that is not more than 60% of the cost of the service and is also guaranteed 40% for personal expenses. The current system of dependency has led thousands of people to an extreme situation, have been expelled from the system and prevented from exercising their social rights. No one should be out of the system for lack of resources. Over the past few years, these beneficiaries are those who bring most of the money to the administration's system itself, you have to ask the State what it corresponds to according to reflects the law and ensure that 100% of the people with dependent needs are reached. There is a need for more fair enforcement of the 2006 Act and for assessing and modifying the criteria of coke, which are clear and equitable. We understand and will support this motion, to which we want to add an addition amendment, which would be: The first is to negotiate with the legal presentation of workers and public workers to the PPT necessary to speed up and improve the bureaucratic process of demand and dependence, the elaboration of the PIA, the quality of assistance and the follow-up of the beneficiaries. The second is to create a residential network and public day centres that respond to demand and guarantee equity in access to these services throughout the country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u135	Very good morning, late, I don't know very well what it is, everyone. The truth is that it would be good if we were to take advantage of it as it is on Tuesdays of entry if we were to remove the facet in this Parliament at once and say that it is what it intends to defend with its political action, because in this country we scandalized ourselves by a play of puppeteers, and instead we are not able to scandalize ourselves by the absolutely unacceptable act of a government of a People's Party that in Galicia allows 1,000 people to die last year with the right of unaccompanied dependence. Therefore, in this country, this People's Party, which has been denied cases of corruption, is unable to comply with the law. They always argue that laws must be complied with, but when there are laws that give citizens rights, they are inconceivable, and, of course, from AGE we believe, and if that's not the case, someone does not deny it, that the law of dependency is passed, and is published, and therefore there is no excuse for non-compliance, except for the attitude of a ruling political class, in this case in the Government of Galicia and in the state as a whole, which seeks to eliminate rights through non-application. And when we talk about the Dependency Law, some people, in this case those who rule in this country, don't care about people, the only thing that matters is the makeup of the figures, and behind their decisions is not to give a good service, but to make the figures, and to make the figures means to eliminate benefits by the way, on the one hand, of the physical disappearance of people and, on the other hand, by the voluntary revisions of the requirements, and therefore of the accounts that are given to people who receive some type of dependency benefit. How, if not, can you understand that check of office that has been done to many neighbors and neighbors of this country, which has meaning that they duplicate or quadriple the contributions of confiscatory coke that they have to do to pay attention? Or, for example, in many cases, if they are removed from situations that they had in residences of the whole country? So we are faced with a reality that the only thing that is to make up for the political attitude, but not to solve the problem, if we couldn't understand that increase in the contributions to the librarian contributions made by the Government. How is it possible for a person who is simply above the IPREM? When we talk about IPREM, we have to say the figure, because it seems like here a person who's above IPREM has to reduce his contribution as if he were a billionaire. IPREM in this country is set at EUR 532 gross, so a pensioner who has EUR 532 gross income can reduce the contribution to 90% of the total contribution. So we're talking about confiscating your total income, we're finally talking about using that pensioner's own resources, that employee who has a dependency situation that generated your contributions, to give you the service, so we're talking about 100% of the treatment set. So the People's Party's Party's way of doing things is getting rid of the right that citizens had to gain access to a law of dependency that had some other recognized benefit, but that's not really being that way. 27,000 people in Galicia on a waiting list, and just one reduction last year last year of 1,700. Of these 1,700, as I said before, 1,000 were directly because they failed, and another important percentage for a systematic debugging computer-made to avoid duplication, but in no case because new resources were given, in no case because new benefits were given. So we do have to support what is proposed, because what is proposed is something that seems to be common: reducing waiting lists. If the People's Party doesn't want to reduce the waiting list, say so. Of course, to recover the EUR 111 million that owes the State to Autonomy, to the country, to Galicia, to make these contributions real, and also to cancel the revaluations that have been made by the Galician Union, which in many cases mean the loss of rights. So, if you don't agree with these claims, if you don't agree with this initiative, what you have to say is that you don't care about the situation of the dependents, and that all they want is to make the figures, but not to relieve the suffering of the people who need this support. They will therefore be responsible for their vote on that machine to spread the suffering of the people who need the Dependency Law in this country. That is why we are going to support the Socialist Party's initiative today. Nothing else and much more funny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u136	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u137	Thank you, President. Good day again. If I may, Madam, this initiative is very similar to what we have discussed before, not in the matter, but as a minimum, that is, we are already on a level that we have seen here defending motions from the minimum. We can take a look at the initiatives regarding dependency since this legislation began so far, and to ask them to keep the law, to remove all the issues that the different royal decrees were introducing to completely dismantle the Dependency Law, and today we are here – and we, of course, from the Nationalist Block in Wales, are going to support it – by asking for the minimum. I mean, that there are no waiting lists, that it's respected by what marks the law already diminished. I mean, that those recognized rights, and that so many times we've reported that they weren't those people receiving those benefits, that they're being met. So in fact, I believe that if we do an analysis of the different non-law and motion proposals, we see that with regard to the law of dependence or violence, or of many other cases, we are already reducing even requests to the minimum, which are complied with; well, for a shock plan for the waiting lists. Because, really, if we're going to see what the Dependency Law meant, and what it meant to advance in the creation of a service society with public squares, public squares for older people and dependent people, and what it really means is that there are no public squares, privatization of those squares that have been launched after the Bipartite, really, what did the People's Party do about the Dependency Law? Listening to Mr. Counsellor, and then reviewing what he was saying, in case we actually heard wrong in our own interpellation, when he talks about 10,000 new people in the system, well, it's just that he's, at least, taking our hair. But I wanted to pick up one aspect, which we are already at least – but indeed Mrs Gallego mentioned important – as is the aspect of when Social Security was eliminated for caregivers. What it meant was an advance for all, essentially daughters, sisters, women... who were, and who are, in fact, doing so again, taking care of older people and dependent people. And with all the controversy that arose, with the various gender impact reports that led to this law, and with all the social debate about that Social Security for the caregivers, that the People's Party was able to eliminate it as such, to eliminate that it had been recognized that people – women, basically – who care for dependent people had that right to social security. We will certainly support this initiative. Furthermore, after the last report on the social services development index 2015, and the position that Galicia occupies, absolutely irrelevant, and declining, which is what we see in the last reports, the People's Party should take note of what the social workers themselves are saying, and no longer come to Parliament – I suppose this today will be adopted unanimously – asking for minimums, but really, what will be the plan for recovery and implementation of the Dependency Act. Because 23,000 people waiting for a place, waiting for a service, for a right they've recognized... well, I don't know how they can talk about economic recovery. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. The motion that we are debating, tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, is essentially asking that the Council of Galicia put in place a shock plan to assist dependent people in our community who are currently on a waiting list without being met. Yes, I don't know what that shock plan would be, but you don't know what measures would be necessary for the implementation of that shock plan. But on the other hand, we'd like to say that in Galicia a plan of shock has already been put in place to care for dependent people. And that shock plan won't start tomorrow, that shock plan started in May 2009. A shock plan to care for all the people who are dependent on our community. And what concrete measures have been taken since May 2009? First of all, increase the budget, because here you don't seem to care about money. But, look, if there's no money, if there's no budgets, you can't care for dependent people, you can't build residences and you can't provide services to people who need it. In 2009 dependents had 126 million euros to be treated, this year 2016 dependents have 324.2 million euros. We're talking about 198.2 million euros more than in 2009, why?, to meet people in dependency, for people who need it and for people who are waiting for a benefit; 157 percent more people-centred budget. [[Applause]] And then you talk about dismantling the Dependency Law. It is impossible, because you will understand that a government that spends EUR 198.2 million more to care for dependents is not a government that aims to dismantle the Dependency Law. I understand that you have to repeat it to see if it's quiet, but, of course, the figures and the facts show that it's not. On the other hand, indeed, the adviser in his inquiry explained how the waiting list is currently, explained the measures being taken to reduce it, and explained that the number of persons attended has doubled. That the ratio in 2009 of care was 30%, that the ratio of care in 2015 is 60%, and that in addition to 2016 they will be incorporated into the system 10,000 new people, increasing the ratio to 75%. It seems that you've taken the lead and you don't give them, you talk to the board -- who have the chance -- and you'll see the possibility of comparing their figures and you'll see how it's possible, with this budget and with the measures that are starting up the Galician Union, incorporating 10,000 new people more into the system and increasing the ratio of attention to 75%. And, look, to reduce the waiting lists, what you need is to have day centers, residences, home help services, services supplies and family care. And for that more budgets – which are on the table – are needed, more public squares – which are on the table. More than 7,800 new public squares in social infrastructure, 76% more than the Greeks had in 2009; 3,250 new squares in residences, day centers and Alzheimer's centers; and more than 845 new squares for people with disabilities. And now they change their mind and want to prioritize the occupation of public squares instead of libretto. But, look, really what this was doing is not the People's Party Government, from the very first moment the People's Party said freedom was the last resort to which one should go to pay attention to a dependent person. But it was other governments that prioritized the bailout before launching residences and day centers. And this government is doing what it's doing is to set up residences, day centers, Alzheimer's care centers and home-help service so that the library is the last resource to help these dependent people. And, look, when they're talking about reviewing the files of the office -- they've explained it to them, from the Committee of Galicia and the Committee of the Whole -- it's not true, the Board's not carrying out any review of the office, there's a ruling from the Socialist Government of 2011 that tells us that people who have been declared dependent before the adoption of that decree will not need a new assessment. And when valuation reviews are carried out...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u141	...–Fixed, president– the instance of the person concerned or on his own initiative, shall apply the scope of this royal decree. There is no formal review in Galicia. And, of course, you can be sure, the Galician Union has claimed, and the People's Party has claimed, to the Government what corresponds to the financing of the Dependency Act, always with a Socialist Party in Government and with the People's Party in Government. We hope, of course – we're going to keep claiming – that you claim it, too. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Motion author group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. I appreciate the support of the opposition groups and accept the amendment to add. And no more step to answer to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, because I understand they're going to vote than not. Look, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, the criterion of prioritising public services above books is not a criterion of the People's Party, it is a criterion that is established in the law, in the law that the Socialist Party has made. You did not, indeed, vote against it, but it is a criterion that is established by law, not by the People's Party. I don't know what you're going to talk to me about public squares here, in 2016 Galician Union won't create a single new residence to meet dependent people, so I don't know what you're going to talk to me about public squares here. I can tell you – and we will stop using Barrio Sesamo – that it is obvious that a law when it is born has zero persons cared for on the basis of that law, and as the years go by it has to have more, and therefore it has to have more budgets. [[Applause]] But what is also evident – for information from their lordships – is that in 2009, when we left the Government, there were 28,589 people attended, and today – seven years later – there are only 14,000 more attended than in 2009. So if in two years you could attend 28,000 people, that in seven you could only attend half of you demonstrate the political will of the People's Group to apply the Dependency Act. [[Interruptions.]] It's the concepts, that you have to make them clear. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what you do with the application of the Dependency Act is pure propaganda, you don't believe in this law. And because they didn't politically dare to disassemble it because they knew it meant political wear, what they did was disassemble it by the way of the facts, like, cutting off the benefits, increasing the payrolls, removing the contributions to the social security of the caregivers. And, yes, you made a decree in Galicia, signed by Mrs. Mato, of the re-evaluation of the counseling of dependent people, which is why they have been relieved of allowances for dependent people, and if they have been lowered we will limit them. That was the case, the decree is published in the Official Journal of Galicia of 2012. And the consequence of that decree is that many people can no longer go to residences or day centers because they are unable to face the coop. How is it possible to meet a 20% of the hours a person has a month if he is covered by 80% of his pension? What does that person live on for the rest of the month? How do you keep it? How is it possible that you intend to remove 10,000 people from the Dependency Act waiting lists with 50 euros a month? A person who has a pension of 600 euros, do you think it's worth a government that gives him 50 euros a month to attend? Is that a benefit that can be called worthy of a person to attend through the Dependency Act? Are those the rights that you want for people with some dependency or autonomy problem?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u145	What you want, gentlemen of the People's Party, is to go back to those times when what was done in Galicia was charity and charity, and we want the consecration of rights. And be assured, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, that if we are Government – as you seem to have done – the Dependency Law will be applied again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u146	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. We suspended the session until 6:30. [[The session is suspended at 3:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the current state and autonomic systems of scholarships for university students
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u147	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u148	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We present this motion as a result of the interpellation made in the past on the consequences of the policies for university scholarships which is having the policy carried out by the People's Party, both in the Government of Spain and Galicia, and which is reducing to absolutely unacceptable limits the equality of opportunity and the fairness of access to university education of our young people and girls. I believe that in the interpellation we gave sufficient data to justify why we presented this interpellation and now we present this motion. It's true that, as Mrs. Adam said this morning, this is also a motion of minimals to see if we can agree on something for the benefit, in this case of young and young university students, because we would need much more than we asked for here. Well, in any case, we all know that our country, Spain, devotes a very low proportion of GDP to university scholarships. It is one of their problems that we try to fix in socialist governments, in Mr Zapatero's last too, rising the budget of the scholarships continuously every year, until the People's Party has dropped those figures. It is a pity that the Counsellor is not here, because he said that in 2012 there was more budget in Spain than in 2011, and he wanted to comment – I will tell him at another time – that according to the data from the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, chaired by the PP, not ours, of the Ministry of Education, in 2011 there were 965 million for university scholarships, the peak at which was reached, and in 2012 some 916, who are going down. But, in any case, this is not what we wanted, which we also criticise, but more precisely what is critical, what is really unacceptable are the new requirements put in place by Minister Wert, who, as we all know – and I am sure that the People's Party agrees with me, even if he doesn't say so – will pass into history as the worst minister of education of all democracy. All the while, you too, I understand that they can't give me the reason, I understand it perfectly, but I know you know I have it. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, a tightening of the academic requirements that clearly jeopardized the fairness of the university system. The figures they have had – as I said at another time in the interpellation – a demolition effect on the Greek students. Ten thousand scholarships less according to universities and according to the figures of the Spanish university system of the Spanish Rectors Conference, not mine, but the Rectors Conference. There is a spree drop in the number of scholarships, from the German stock exchanges from 2011-2012 to 2013-2014. The counselor – I'm glad you're here, Counsellor – wasn't right because the calculation has to be done between the number of 2011-2012 and 2013-2014 scholarships, it's not worth the 2008 data, because you know we're comparing different units. And, above all, a very important fall in value, in the average number of scholarships to Galicia of the Ministry for young Greek girls. A 24% drop from 2011 to 2014. Counsellor, I hope you remember, because I know you know, that the average count in 2014 of the scholarships of the Greek colleges given by the Ministry is equal to that of 2004, ten years earlier. Wert managed to get the Greek colleges to have the same average scholarship as ten years ago. That's enough to give a medal, because the truth is it's complex! Ten years lost. You were not right either, Counselor, when you said that the average count in Galicia was lower because the rates were lower, but as it turns out that this decrease is from 2011 to 2014, and from 2011 to 2014 the rates were frozen, you will understand that it is not due to that, because the count is low while the rate is frozen. In any case, we put on the table what we believe is essential for the Government of Galicia to try to achieve an equity that is currently lacking in the University System of Galicia. First of all, use the whole investment, the budget of scholarships to make calls, because, Counsellor, you are using only 50%, 1.5 million or 600,000 euros. You don't use that money anymore. Of course, in no year have they had the courage, neither you nor your predecessor, the political courage to bring to this chamber the real budgets of what you would invest: 1.5 million euros, all plus 1.7 million euros, nothing more. So be brave to say they're not going to use anything but that money. We ask him to use everything. And make other forms of scholarship, because it is absolutely necessary, Counsellor, to have a call for supplementary scholarships, because the single tuition is not enough, because the university students who have below a 6.5, a remarkable, cannot obtain a supplementary scholarship of residence, of transportation or of material, because the registration is not all, Mr. Counsellor. Moreover, I also remind you of one fact: even in countries like Denmark, where registration is free, the country spends 0.65% of its GDP on scholarships and educational aid. I mean, it's no reason that your license plate is lower or higher, you need complementary scholarships for grade and master. The same thing we ask you, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to change the requirements to give a bag in Galicia. Because – I said at another time – you do not have any index to correct family income in Galicia, that if it exists in the Ministry's purses; that is, there is a corrective and income-reducing element of the family unit, such as children with disabilities, orphanages, brothers, number of sisters who study at the university, and who, therefore, can reach a scholarship, higher incomes than you have here, which are practically the minimum interprofessional wage. And above that no one gets a bag. Just as it is necessary to expand and change the call for scholarships for survival needs. Because at that moment, Counselor, you know that no one who gets orphaned, who has a family misfortune, who has a disease, who has a perennial and urgent need, nobody can ask for a bag that exceeds 428 euros a month. And the student who's doing a master's degree can no longer ask for it. As a result, universities – you know – have had to expand, and a lot, the amounts given in bags to alleviate the lack of Join, the lack of bags that Join. Finally, we believe that it is also necessary for a commission to be put in place with the representatives of the council, universities and student associations, to examine what changes must be introduced into the aid system – which are more than I'm saying here – of help to university studies in Galicia, what new calls must be made. Because if not, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Counsellor, what we are doing is actually doing the wishes of both Mr Wert and the new Minister of Education, who said very clearly that they are still university students in this country. Of course, the minister wasn't thinking of his children, his nephews, or the children of his friends, he was thinking of the children of an employee, of an albanal, of low- and middle-class children; those who couldn't get to college with you. And this must be stopped, because it turns out that in a rule of law one of the basic elements and rights is equal opportunities, that you are denying Galician boys and girls. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. As soon as the Parliamentary Group of the BNG will support this motion, because it believes that the system of scholarships and grants for university study is fundamental to the equal opportunities of all Greeks and Greeks, because we defend that these aids should serve to correct social inequalities and to facilitate access to higher education for all students and students in our country. The changes imposed by Mr. Wert's decrees, which have subjected a serious cut to scholarships and aids, have unfairly tightened the requirements necessary both to access and to renew scholarships and university aids, maintain too few income thresholds, severely diminish the contancies to perceive and demand very restrictive academic qualifications, which, of course, deprive the right to access to university to thousands of Galicians and Greeks. All reports warn of the devastating consequences of these two decrees, which are none other than the abandonment of the university because of these legislative changes, to such an extent that Galicia is the only community where the number of purses has dropped since 2012, and the average number of scholarships as well. That is why the BNG Parliamentary Group has denounced in this Parliament the lack of public resources to guarantee the right to higher education of the student born in families with low economic resources. I remember the denunciation not only of the BNG, but of many political groups, of the student, of the ANPA and of the same State School Council in the face of the adoption of these decrees. Complaints, for example, of the reduction and freezing of scholarships, which meant a serious breakdown for the most disadvantaged economies; of the reduction in income-related aid by more than 57 per cent; of residence by 40%; of the disappearance of the displacement stock, which could reach the 937 euros; and of the disappearance of mobility aid. We all, of course, agreed to denounce that Mr. Rajoy's educational policy removed many students from access to higher education. But, sadly, Mr Feijóo, instead of defending the interests of the student of Greek, took care of Madrid's orders and put in a few bags to conceal that something was being done. How propaganda worked. Due to the abundance of what the previous comparative said, in 2009, there were 4.1 million euros for scholarships in this country, in 2016 there were 3.1 million, but the 3.1 that is announced does not run half, i.e. in a dramatic economic situation it turns out that neither it is executed nor what is put on the paper. That's why, since the help that Joina implements is not enough to ensure student access to higher education, BNG will support this Socialist Group motion to put in place a line of new scholarships, with new rules, with new calls, running the whole budget. But we also present an amendment to add so that the Greek Government can claim the media to Madrid and transfers to ensure the student's access to education. Let's put in the amendment two points: "Request" – in the first – "the transfer to the Galician Board of Skills on the general system of scholarships and study aids, with its corresponding economic budget, to ensure access" – I say – "to the exercise of the right of every German student to access the university." And, secondly, "Receiving the derogation from the Royal Decrees 1000/2012 and 609/2013, as well as the elimination of all measures that involve the precariousness of university education in our country." The BNG we understand that the competition that we claim would be much better managed by the Galician board itself, which understands much better the characteristics and needs of the student from Galician. I'm done, ladies. I hope that they will take into account the amendment of the BNG and announce, as it cannot be otherwise, the support of this motion of the Socialist Party in any way. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u152	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u153	Good afternoon, ladies. We, from the Joint Group, are going to support this motion, because we believe it is very urgent to provide economic aid to thousands of university and university students in Greece. The reduction in the number of scholarships and the economic amount... [[Pause..]] Now? Yeah, okay. The reduction in the number of scholarships and the economic amount has put an end to ensuring equal opportunities to try to prevent students with less resources from studying for lack of money. And within the Spanish state you can opt for different bags, a system that is not the most desirable. The way these aids are processed has not changed much in recent decades: a lot of bureaucracy without speeding up their payments, and the families who have to put forward the money that they don't have, or that they don't even have, so they ask for this help. The Spanish state devotes only 0.11 % of GDP and falls far below the OECD countries, which is 0.31 %. Since Unesco it has been claimed that this data is a result of the timid state government's wager for higher education, compared to other neighbouring countries of the European Union. The central government is the largest grant funder for universities and universities. In 2012 it changed the distribution system: a fixed total count was imposed for the set of applicants, regardless of their number; it was granted in the 2012-2013 course and since then that count has been maintained; and, above all, they tightened the demands for scholarships, so many students stayed out of this system. Even here, the aid granted is assigned with a mathematical formula difficult to interpret and based on data of difficult access, with difficulty in understanding and checking whether the content that is often received for those lucky people corresponds to what belongs to it. This led, according to the CORE, to the association formed by a total of 75 State universities, to the fact that all public universities incorporate in their budgets appropriations to finance aid to guarantee the principle of equal opportunities. And for example, what happened in Galicia, which with reference to the 2014 course, was denied 10,000 applications out of 26,000 submitted by university and university students; often due to the tightening of the requirements. It's especially noteworthy that the average amount of scholarships is reduced by 24%, when the standard of living has increased. The number of university students, teachers and postgraduate students has been reduced. It was not long ago that the president of the board said that he was assuming active policy in support of the German student, and he said that he would renew the university and university support lines, mainly aimed at nullifying the effects of the tightening of the requirements to achieve a ministerial scholarship. And this is where the other side of the aid is, which is presented as a fraction, again forcing the bureaucracy to pass. Bureaucracy that puts obstacles and fatigue on applicants in desperate situations. Scholarships that look like alms, where economic criteria are shot and they don't take the cost of life into account. And they seem to want to sell us favors. It's noted that we're on a permanent electoral campaign. It would be good for Galician government itself, and there we also agree with the amendment tabled by the BNG, which had requested the transfer of the appropriations and managed directly all the economic aid to Greek universities and universities, from the functions of normative development, the executive, management, resolution, control and payment of the scholarships to the study financed by the funds, which would in this case give the State, which would have to increase the content. And to rely on the support of the educational community to advise and ensure equity and equality of opportunities for the student of the Italian university, including all those people affected by the reforms and adaptations of studies, taking into account tuition costs, residence expenses, transportation, material, always appropriate to the level of income. And meet the deadlines in their resolution, effectively and without drowning the economies of the Greek student.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u155	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. The fact is that we live in a country that is far away from the story of recovery and of that social state and well-being that often aims to instill in this chamber the People's Party and often seeks to convince citizens. 45% of the wages declared in Galicia do not reach the EUR 1,000 according to the Ministry of Farming itself. We're the third autonomous community with the lowest wages in the whole state. We are a country with 236,447 unemployed, and rising according to the latest data referred to in January. And we live again the nightmare that many of us hear from the mouth of our parents and grandparents, a nightmare that is based on that many boys, many girls can't go to college because their parents have no resources, because their family has no resources. Something that many of us here probably think we're never going to hear in our country again happens. The requirements for access to a university scholarship are in many cases unattainable for many boys and for many girls. The academic requirements require that at least 85% of the credits entered in the previous course be exceeded in the event of a second course of a university course or degree. The family income threshold requirements make it virtually impossible for a middle- or low-wage family to have access to a university scholarship. And what is the consequence of this fact? What are the sad consequences? Because every year about this country called Galicia there are 1,000 students and university students who have suffered demands for unpaid tuition and who, therefore, are confronted with that threat that they either pay their debt to the university, or their tuition is cancelled. This is a reality that happens in our country and that we think we would never hear again. The average cost of a year's university degree in Galicia is as high as 800 euros. But the cost of each master year required to complete this qualification goes from 1,500 euros to 7,000. Figures all of them that many families cannot assume and therefore if they want their children to have a study, if they are obliged in many cases even to take up debts or sell property. That's the reality that lives in our country, a reality that's been sounding to us over 50 years ago. The drop in students enrolled in the university reaches 30%. I know that this decline is usually due to a purely demographic problem, and that's not the case. There's a demographic problem, but there's a lot of young and young people who before studying a university career are forced to emigrate from our country, about 16,000 under 30, but there's a lot of others who are already working at the age of age you'll be early for studying a high school cycle or an average degree precisely because they don't have the chance to study a university career. As has already been said here, the average number of grants or university scholarships has fallen 21% in recent years. Precisely in a crisis context, precisely in a context where families are, students need the most help, that's when the scholarships are cut off. And that's the model of the social state that defends the People's Party -- a model where working-class children find themselves increasingly enticing so they can access a university degree. We understand that this, of course, is not a society that seeks fairness or, at least, has it as its objective. But it's not just a drop in the bags. The real decrees, the policy changes that the People's Party is pushing make it even more difficult to access a university degree. Royal Decree 3+2 means that instead of having a single year of mastership, as there was so far, there are two, and that, therefore, the expenses of families are multiplied, because as I say the cost of each year of master can rise to 7,000 euros. So we are going to support this initiative because we consider it appropriate, necessary and we believe that if the Greek Government has a minimum of social sensitivity it should also support it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cancelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u157	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. This motion put forward by the PSdeG Parliamentary Group is, as we are seeing on other issues in this Chamber, the lack of information about the policies being developed by the People's Party, both in Galicia and in Spain. Because with regard to scholarships for university students, it is important to highlight the significant increase in the number of Greek students who have access to the education aids convened by the Ministry, which in the course 2014-2015 were 17,640 the Welsh and Welsh students who enjoyed these scholarships, representing 28% of the total students enrolled in the Greek university system and increasing by 13% in relation to the academic course 2008-2009. And all of this within a context of strong budget restrictions and student dropouts within the Greek university system, which was almost 8.7% dropout between those two periods of time. In fact, the content for scholarships collected in the state's general budgets increased by 21% between 2011 and 2015. It is true that in terms of the total amount that reaches our Autonomous Community there is a decrease, but it is motivated by the freezing of university fees in Galicia, which makes us the Autonomous Community where registrations are cheaper, so its funding means that, although more students access scholarships, total economic content is lower. But, of course, this data is not taken into account in the analysis of university scholarships, because they are not interested in recognizing that we have the most economically accessible universities throughout Spain, maintaining quality in the same and with more students covered by the Ministry's scholarships. Of course, it's because they don't want to remember that at the time of the two-party government, despite the good economic and financial situation, university rates rose by 5% on average annually. In a context of economic growth, without budgetary constraints, with higher public incomes, prices were higher, and fewer Greek students were covered by a scholarship. If we analyze the policies of support that the Council of Culture develops, what we find is, on the one hand, that 75,000 students pay less tuition than the Thursdays of Madrid, Barcelona or any other non-Galleg university, at all levels of study, all: degree, master and doctorate, both for the first and second or next grades. In addition, the Government of the People's Party has been making a great effort over the years to even maintain and increase the allocation of own scholarships, to support the young people of Greece in their studies, taking into account those students who were excluded from the state scholarships by changes in academic requirements of the Ministry, both those students who started university and those who continue to study in grade degrees, and with a special call to cover survival causes. Scholarships which take account of the student's economic situation and which lower the requirements – as I have already commented – of academics proposed by the Ministry and with a budget allocation that will not leave without scholarship any student who meets the requirements, since if not enough the intended credit will be carried out the increase in the appropriation by means of expanded credit. This is the commitment of the People's Party Government. In addition to these scholarships – as you know – the Council offers a set of aids to support the mobility of our students: Erasmus scholarships for non-EU countries, etc., tips for master studies as well, or other kinds of aids such as career end prizes, to recognize the excellence of our Thursdays. With regard to execution, it must be said that all students who meet the requirements have access to the scholarships offered, so there is no help left for any student to meet the minimum, so the level of execution of what depends is the number and type of applications submitted. In closing, this parliamentary group will not support the motion put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, since, as has been stated, the rate freeze policy makes us have the lowest registrations in the state and, in addition, the call for autonomous scholarships, from the responsibility of managing available resources, is already complementing the Ministry's calls and ensuring equal opportunity for access to higher education in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Cancel. Motion author group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, first of all, I want to thank everyone, the Joint Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the AGE, for their support for this initiative. I also want to tell Mr. Cosme Pombo that, of course, we will accept his amendment, which I think will also improve our motion, and we fully agree with the two points. So we do want to incorporate it into our motion. Well, the truth is, it's not strange to me at all that the People's Party doesn't accept this motion, not just because they can't do it, but because it's against everything you believe. You think the university has to be elite, we think we don't. This would make it easier for the university not to be elite, and you are not willing to give up that idea of university for a few who are willing to do, with Rajoy in the head, with the ministers and Feijóo in Galicia. Mrs. Cancel, the fees have nothing to do with the scholarships, you know, because I said before Denmark, whose license is free, uses 0.69% of its GDP in support of the studies. It's just that it has nothing to do with it, taxes can be as cheap as they want, but we still need scholarships to make people with less economic possibilities get access to a university. And yes, the truth is, he's tired, because all they have to say in university politics is that of fees. To increase your information, I'll tell you that the professional master's degree, which must be done to access a profession, is one of Spain's most expensive. Because, of course, we talk a lot about degrees, but we don't talk about masters. In any case, I don't mind talking about fees, but fees and scholarships are different things, Mrs. Cancel. Well, you know, I think you reflect your thinking on the negative to this motion, which said before it was minimal, and you also reflect something very serious, and that the Government is going on, it's going to go on without spending 100 percent of the budgeted in bags; that is, all of the Greeks should know that the government is lying in their budgets, that they budget 3 million and spend one and a half million at most. And that, the truth – I hope you too do not think so too – but that's a mistake, a deception to the young people and girls who are having so much difficulty leading their idea of life forward, their life project, which you are preventing, lords of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. We passed the motions. We begin with the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of prevention and comprehensive protection against gender-based violence. He has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of prevention and comprehensive protection against gender violence. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u161	We now vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group motion on the development in Galicia of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Attention to Persons in Dependency. He said he accepted the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia for the development in Galicia of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Self-Government and Care for Persons in Dependency. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u162	Finally, we are voting on the Socialist Parliamentary Group motion on actions to be taken in relation to the current state and autonomic systems of scholarships for university students. Mrs Burgo has already expressed her support for the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Wales. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Concepción Burgo López, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the current state and autonomic systems of scholarships for university students. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u163	We move on to the point of full appearances. The two appearances are piled up. Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report on the Plan of Financing of the University System of Galicia 2016-2020 At the request of the Eighteen Members and Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to explain the funding plan of the university system of Galicia 2016-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u164	You have the floor, therefore, the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u165	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. This appearance is planned as an exercise of transparency that closes a process that has also begun in this House, in particular at the plenary session of February 25, 2014. On that date, the Galician Parliament agreed to request the Italian Executive to begin work on a new funding plan for the Galician university system in that year to be effective from 2016 onwards. We are already in 2016 and today I am going to this House – and allow me to use an educational terminology – "with the duties done". [[Murmurs.]] The Galician University System, the SUG, officially counts from January 7th with a new funding plan for a five-year period. On that date, with the signing of the accession agreements of each of the universities, it was formalized the end of a long process, which had been significant recent moments, in last October, the unanimous approval of the Galego Council of Universities and also the approval and approval and the approval and approval by the Council of the Union. The new model mobilizes 18% more public funds than the previous one, reaching about EUR 2.480 million. With the new plan the Union guarantees the stability and financial adequacy of the three universities and establishes a simpler and more transparent distribution, eliminating the so-called "historical criteria". We are faced with a new plan that, as your lords know, has reached the unanimous backing of the three public universities in Greece. In addition, the new plan, as requested in this Parliament, dealt first with the analysis and diagnosis of the budgetary and university scenario, to lay down later, and secondly, the criteria that will mark the financing for SUG for the period 2016-2020. So my presence here today responds, on the one hand, to the desire to render accounts to this House for the work done and also, on the other hand, this appearance makes sense, because it is appropriate to explain and value the collective achievement of funding. Galicia well deserves this Parliament to know for the first time the explicit and shared commitment acquired by the Union and the three Greek universities to public education, as well as the modernization of higher education, as well as the role played by the SUG as a catalyst for the productive fabric of the country. But before that it's convenient to contextualize things as well. Over time there were different and different plans that opened the way and that responded to realities and incorporated criteria that they considered to be achievable in their time. This is the fifth university funding plan. The first plan was in 1990-96, extended until 1999; the second in 2000-2005, the third in 2005-2010, the fourth in 2010-2015 and the fifth in 2016-2020. And let me make a brief temporary reflection on these dates, essentially taking into account the fourth funding plan. I said it in the past legislation, and after that in the previous government during the bipartite, during the years 2008 and 2009, if it was unable by the Galician Board to reach agreement with universities: it was the current Council of Galicia that reached an agreement to launch the funding plan 2011-2015. This funding plan was the result of a transparent process, extensive negotiation and consensus-building with the three Greek universities to define a new funding system. Galicia has now led within the state as a whole the implementation of a new model of university funding: a model for results, which was possible – as I have already said – through dialogue, consensus and the ability to design a successful policy, which has made it possible to have a dynamic, flexible, sustainable, equitable and also efficient plan. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a lot of the reports, it's a lot of the data that tell us about the correctness that was Plan 2011-15. They shielded the funds, linked the public funds to the achievement of results, and secured funds for research, placing Galicia on levels of Catalonia or the Basque Country, with much more experience in this matter. Galicia also in recent years, and thanks to the blockage of the funding plan, has been the second autonomous community that has diminished its public access to universities and has maintained greater stability in the financing of the three universities. In conclusion, you can say that the above plan has been fulfilled and that the funding targets have been achieved in full. Without going further, the initial amount that was proposed for that five-year period, for the five-year period that we just left behind, was 2,105 million euros, and yet the end was 2,230 million euros; that is, the public resources were increased, which were managed by universities also thanks to the process of capturing the university itself. In the process of managing the current plan, the College of Education and Universitary ordination also sought to maintain transparency and dialogue with the parties involved at all times, precisely because we also wanted to achieve the greatest possible consensus. In this way, on July 31, 2014, a working group was formed with representatives of the councils involved and the three universities, to channel reflections and approaches to all sides, and to facilitate the approximation of postures. This working group held a total of eight meetings from its establishment until 5 October 2014. It was understood by the Board and the three universities that had a shared challenge, that we all had a challenge ahead. It's that the new funding plan must serve at once to facilitate new resources to universities, it has an unquestionable quantitative part, but also to order and modernize the whole university system. The new resources, no doubt, must meet the needs of universities, but they must also commit and commit university institutions to the efficient satisfaction of the social and economic needs that Galicia will undoubtedly have in the future. The new structure of public funding for the new plan is organized around two fundamental blocks: on the one hand, a structural financing game, with an initial weight of 67%, and also a second block of funding for the results, which has a start of 33% and designs a path for 40% in 2020. We're talking about two communicating vessels. That means that both funds will have communication, so that a fund will be reduced, those resources to ensure their own economic solvency will go further. And the new plan also sets out different public parts out of the plan, and we're talking about agreements with other councils, the Galaga Innovation Agency funds, European funds, state calls, etc. From a purely quantitative point of view, the new plan provides more funds and is provided with EUR 2.480 million of public funding for the next five years. This basically means, comparing initial data, an 18% increase in relation to the previous plan. This increase in funds will already be noted this year, in 2016, as universities will receive more than 392 million euros, taking into account only the accounts directly linked to the plan, which means a 4.8% increase in respect of what they received in 2015. But this climb, in addition, assumes that the budget for universities increases above what the budgets of the Union do, which grow as you know, ladies, at 4.3%. With regard to the funds, in the structure of the structural funds and the results, the new plan simplifies the allocation of the autonomous funds. As I've already said, it's structured into two big funds: The structural background allows and guarantees the system's adequacy, allows you to maintain the system's adequacy, and it is done in an absolutely objective way, by measuring, on the one hand, the number of students enrolled in each degree and in each university, and also by measuring the number of credits raised in each degree. It's a tremendously transparent distribution, and it's an absolutely objective distribution. As for the bottom by results, we have to say that if it starts at 33%, with a goal of reaching 40. It is basically planted with philosophy, with the philosophy of stimulating and rewarding results, of stimulating and rewarding effort, of stimulating and rewarding university quality and excellence. Several paragraphs will be planted within this large background: For example, the indicator panel, twelve indicators that are linked to research and transfer. We're talking about 55 million, which are going to be divided between universities based on twelve parameters: number of research groups, talent capture, patents, scientific production, etc. Another important sub-fund is the one that has to do with promoting R & D+i, 50 million, which is also geared towards boosting help in the acquisition, training and retention of talent, as well as reference research. Besides, we also introduced quality improvement actions, so we could move on to a better university in the future. Among other things, inter-university cooperation, promoting the distribution of degrees in English, promoting the specialization of peripheral fields. Finally, we're talking to universities, we're working with universities to achieve a funding plan that not only has a fundamental economic aspect, it has it, but it's also useful to go progressively guiding the university system towards the real and effective response to the social and productive demands of the countries. We have to say that never before has the Galician Union mobilized so many funds for the university system, and never before has a plan received the unanimous approval of the university community, represented by the Galego Council of Universities. And the unanimous agreement was possible because in the new model he essentially gave priority to a constructive spirit, he gave priority to the vocation of dialogue, he preferred between universities and the Union the height of sight, he preferred the capacity of understanding, and all that taking into account and putting the general interest always above the particular interest. That is why this plan, ladies and gentlemen, is positive for university and positive for Galicia, because a strong, dynamic, modern, efficient university not only benefits students, teachers, but above all benefits civil society, especially civil society and the sectors produced. Finally, it benefits the Galician group. And I don't want to end up without making express and sincere recognition to the three universities, both in the past legislation, in the previous funding plan, and in the present, because we have been able, from collaboration, from difference and from institutional respect, to work together for SUG and for Galicia. The three universities shared with Joina the new vision, the new role and the new mission that the university must have, in the sense that it must be more than just an institution that transmits knowledge, but also, to some extent, the role should be appealed as a reference to innovation, value creation and sustainability of economic systems. I mean, university forms people, but it also has to impact this formation on collective social advancement and collective improvement in the economic system. And I would like to point out the gratitude of the whole of the Italian Executive towards the three university institutions. We want to continue working together around a common goal, which is to improve university, improve Galicia. And we think that this plan is an example of cooperation, in the sense of loyalty, of country vision and, ultimately, of cooperation, where we can see that walking together we can reach much further and achieve far more ambitious goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u166	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u167	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Counsellor, welcome to this debate. It's just that I get rid of this when I start talking about it after I hear it from you. It is true that it may bring about the duties done, but most of the exercises are wrong; it is not a matter of bringing about the facts, it is a matter of bringing about the facts done and well done, is it not? I therefore miss part of their duties. You were saying that there was a good result of the 2011-2015 Plan, and that that claim to say that the targets were achieved is based on reports. And I'm asking you where those reports are. I really didn't find any analysis or reports on the goals reached in the previous plan, which they didn't achieve, which they reached in half. You say yes, and I would like to say that later when I intervene again, please, if you can tell us where they are. Well, funding for the Greek universities, and that has to be recognised, never reached the university level of the rest of the state; we're no longer talking about Europe, we're just going to dedicate ourselves to the rest of the state. The latest study data from the Conference of Rectors of Spanish Universities, entitled "The Spanish University in Figures 2013-2014", indicates that Galicia is below the Spanish average of structural funding by graduate and master's student, which is the fifth Autonomous Community in which the most percent of university spending in the period 2010-2013, which has decreased by more than 69%, by almost 70%, material investment in universities, ten points above the average between the years 2008 and 2013, and that during that period the Welsh University System has seen its research expenditures reduced by 13 points above public universities. Three points! How do you come here to talk about the Galician board bet for research, if we take all the legislation asking them to bet on research, and when we go to the data we see that the Welsh university is thirteen points below, has reduced their research expenditures by thirteen points below the average of the state public universities? And then we can also talk about the precarious work situation that researchers and researchers find in Galicia, the lack of institutional support and the lack of job stability to be able to carry forward their research projects. So I'm going to start by saying, and starting from this reality, that the count isn't enough, it doesn't meet the needs that Galicia has. I understand it's an important amount, but in the face of the eels and lack of investment these years, of course, it's very short. The Greek university system regrets that the Union had not provided any more information and, above all, that it had not counted on universities anymore. You said there were eight meetings in one year to deal with such important issues as the funding plan, and that seems like a great job to you. I believe that, of course, the universities were eager to work more on this subject, to move forward more and to have a much more open view on the part of the Government. The most prominent of the 2016-2020 Plan is that it drastically reduces structural funding and increases funding by targets to 33% in 2016, counting on 40% by 2020. Funding for targets, besides, includes four sub-funds, that is, it's not only to cover as you said the operation, but also that there are also counter-remunerative supplements, registration compensation, the part of UNED, the promotion of R & D+i and the twelve indicators that you said. This change of funding will require institutions, in addition, to meet the sacrosanct budgetary stability. Above culture, above research, above social needs, above talent, above all, we have sacred budgetary stability, and if they don't have to make an adjustment plan. I mean, really that bet you were now commenting on ensuring the least functioning, lying, lying! They have to make adjustments if they can't achieve budgetary stability. Thus, in fact, it does not guarantee the principle of adequacy and, in addition, much of the increase in announced funding is based on other public approaches which are not sufficiently clarified. Furthermore, universities will have to adhere individually to the plan through agreements, in which they will undertake to meet the objectives and guarantee the sacrosanct, as always, financial stability during this five-year period. In this new plan, the diagnosis of the Galician University System is limited to collecting quantitative analyses grossly, but does not make references that can be comparable. As we said, there is a need for a real analysis of the results of the previous plan, starting from that real analysis, of those objectives achieved, which are not achieved and of those that are achieved on average, to consider the new objectives. And here we start with new goals that are not based on the reality of the Greek university system. So it means a sudden change for universities, which will have to adapt to a new plan without knowing what the evaluation of the previous plan is and what the duties they have left pending and what they have met. So starting from false premises, the normal thing is that the plan doesn't end up fulfilling its objectives. A model of funding that is ultimately reduced to that which the German universities compete with among them, which, of course, seems to me to be all the less correct. The German university system as the only one should collaborate among them to create talent, to obtain research funds, to advance in the future of our country, but the system that creates what it produces is the competition between the three universities. In addition to setting as the main criterion for structural financing the appropriations entered will also be taken into account, for example, the area of the centres. It is therefore a perverse competitiveness that becomes in clientelism, a possible abandonment of the less-demanded faculties of the student and discrimination of the worst-infrastructured universities, and the science and research specialties, by the emergence of the RAM fund that penalises them. So we're not betting the same for all of us. University autonomy is not possible if there is no financial autonomy, the ability to decide and plan at least in the medium term. But if the lack of financial autonomy is added instructions on hiring staff, which prevents universities from planning contracts according to the services they provide, and obliges financial stability, we are faced with a clear intrusion of the Government into university autonomy. The selection of indicators, never neutral, may in some case be associated with singularities. So, for example, the new plan doesn't value the empowerment and retention of talent, something very important. And the Greek Government always talks about attracting talent from outside, attracting foreign talent, while letting the Greek talent go; it's not incompatible. So, I think the plan lacks a real bet so that talented people, the talent of Greek, will remain in this country developing that talent. It also does not take any effort to introduce new graduates, new researchers, or indicators on the employability of the university area. What's the future of our degrees when they leave college? They also do not present indicators on internationalization and relative weight in each of the universities; neither do they correct imbalances and switch to a purely competitive system – as I said – or the inclusion of indicators on results of university-enterprise collaboration. This seems very important to me. And in addition, the People's Party has always refused to link research with the German productive sectors. For you all can be a business, this is an open field, and in the country it's worth everything. And I think universities are really fundamental to creating these synergies with companies and creating a productive future with technology and with 4.0 companies, industries 4.0. But for that, we need to evaluate these indicators of company-university collaboration and then see how this job is developed in companies and how these studies are used in companies. Finally, Counsellor, you once again lost the opportunity to prove that you rule for all the Greeks and all the Greeks, that you respect and count on the collaboration of the Greek institutions. You only count on the support of the People's Party. The principals did accept this plan, but as a lesser evil, because if they had nothing, they were left without any plan. But that doesn't mean that the principals themselves approve this law with enthusiasm. The same thing happens to us all. The People's Party just passed the Land Law on its own. But he's got conflicts with all the productive sectors of this country, be it milk, be it the siege, be it the Aquaculture Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u169	...the law of the ground... they go alone and to the margins of society. That's how they go, and so they'll lose the government. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u171	Good afternoon again. "This funding plan is a reality that counts with the support and consensus of the three universities. The university system has a new funding plan that is characterized by being dynamic, flexible, sustainable, equitable and efficient. The new funding plan is consistent with the new times and supports the achievement of excellence, boosts the efficiency of university management and the achievement of results in teaching, research and transfer to society." These are not my words, it's obvious, Counselor, and they're not yours either; I'm part of the speech of the former advisor – the current reprobate mayor of Ourense – at his meeting held on February 8, 2011, five years ago, to explain the University Financing Plan 2011-2015. What you said that day, five years ago – and according to what is in the Journal of Sessions – was that the plan is the result of dialogue, consensus and agreement with universities – today you also said so. What you said as a spokesperson for the majority group was that "This party meets the university, this party meets the administration, abides by its commitments, and others cannot say the same thing." That's what you said on February 8, 2011. And I ask you today, Counselor: With whom did you fulfill those commitments? With the university, of course not. The previous University funding plan was in practice a plan for the conversion of Galician university. Based on this conversion into three fundamental lines of action: the first, financial asphyxiation, as I will then analyze; the second, the organizational and regulatory chaos that you have carried out; the third, a strict regime of slowing down on college staff paintings, as I will explain later as well. All reports, absolutely all reports, from all sources, support this triple demouche. The budgets approved by the social councils of the three universities show a cut of EUR 77 million between 2010 and 2015. The State Court of Auditors' report determines that the Greek universities have seen their funding sources reduced by 17.06%, nine points above the state average between 2008 and 2012, 124 million euros of budget reduction. A budget reduction which has particularly affected Chapter VI, Capital Transfers, Real Investments; 33.2% of the decrease in investments through capital transfers. We lost a thousand university professors between 2010 and 2014. Counsellor, we can cheat and discuss the figures, we can lie or deny about the sources if you want, but what we can't discuss -- I guess today won't do it -- is that we've made a big cut in university cuts. And you guys when they presented the funding plan 2011-2015 said they were going to increase the budgets and they didn't; so they lied, and they lied seriously. So I deny the biggest: the German government's university funding plan has not been used to shield or guarantee financial adequacy, and I will demonstrate it clearly afterwards. You're looking at the gravity of the situation, Mr. Counsellor, which is beyond anything we can prove here. The University of Santiago de Compostela has just put in place an accounting adjustment plan for a public university. For what? So to deal with a deficit of 14 million euros and a debt of 50 million euros. And besides, according to your own rector, this adjustment plan will involve the depreciation of about five hundred jobs more during the coming years. The director himself of the University of Santiago stated that the USC did not receive from the Unity of Galicia or enough to pay the payrolls. That's what a Rector says, Counselor. Another example, the University of Coruña has filed a litigation-administrative remedy for the failure to comply with the funding plan – the counsellor's promises – and the accumulated debt with the university itself of nearly 9 million euros by the Galician Union. The Rector of the Coruña denounced the failure of the university's liquidity and the debts with suppliers for more than 5 million euros. I suppose that's because you're left with the resources of your funding plan. And this is the real result of your funding plan, Counsellor. Don't fool yourself and don't fool us, please. The result of your plan is a university with no resources and old age, yes, old age. Half the professor at the university in Galicia is over 51 years old; that's the future that lies ahead for us at the university in Galicia: more than 51 years old, half of the professor who teaches. I'm asking one thing that happens to me like this at best: have you thought about this funding plan and considered some kind of strategy to renew the college's teaching staff frameworks? Because it seems necessary, it seems that this is a priority and a necessity. And if we're talking about investment in R+D+i then, Counselor, we definitely have to start crying. And I don't exaggerate you, you'll agree with me. I recommend that you read the latest Cotec Foundation for Innovation Report. Believe me, Counselor, that it's to cry or not to tremble in fear of what that report says. Expenditure on R & D+i decreased by 33.8% in the period 2009-2015 in Galicia, from 0,97% of GDP in research to 0.82%, we are at number twelve – we are the leaders in innovation across the state–. We are far below the 1.23 average GDP invested across the state and, let's not say, the year light of the 2.4 average investment in R & D+i of the European Union. In Galicia we have 170 euros of average spending per resident in research, 109 euros less than the state average and four times less than you invest in research in the Basque Country; we occupy the 13th post of all research communities; we have 1,500 researchers less in our country. And I don't mean to bore it, Counselor, but I think that even if today we don't clear up any questions I'd like you to at least answer one, for me it's the greatest concern today and I suppose for all the Greeks too. The question is, do we touch the bottom now, Counselor, at the university?, do we touch the bottom? Because if we don't touch the background then the problems for Galicia will have a hard solution, but not for this generation, but even for the next generations. Because what we don't invest in research now is a disaster for the next generations, a disaster that's very difficult to solve. You have re-incided – usually in your speech – about a model of funding based on results. How does this results-based financing model come into being? Well, on the basis of taking into account a so-called academic performance rate, scientific production and the average time to find work for university students – two graduates, I imagine –. As if the university had the responsibility to determine the average time a college student takes to find work. Is it not the fault of the labour market, does it have anything to do with that? That's a university responsibility. And then he's also talking about a system based on which he has a competitive competition system. What is the competitive competition? Then get the universities to compete for the budget crumbs that are the ritual budgets of the Galician Union. The previous plan -- I told you at first, you said -- would bring more funds to universities. They lied, it wasn't, and you know it. Today he said it again: this plan will bring more funds to the university. And I ask: Why strange circumstance do we have to believe it, Counselor? He didn't say any single truth in all his exposure. Why do we have to believe all your argument? You base the increase in university resources on a theoretical and hypothetical increase in the capacity to capture external resources and funds. How will the university increase its capacity to capture external resources? Look, Counselor: Research revenues have decreased by 32% in the last five years. How will it increase its resources based on the collection of external resources to university? The average across the state is already a significant decrease, 29%, because we are above the average three points: 32% down from resource capture through research. How do you intend to convince us that you're going to increase your resources to university, because with the structural funds it won't be, you'll deminue us? It's more, they bet on that strategy. Honestly, Counsellor, I don't think the university in Greece has a plan, it doesn't have a funding plan, and don't say above, it doesn't subject citizenship or the directors themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u173	...in insult of saying that the plan is assumed and received by the principals. Because the Rectors know that government policy is "or take it or leave it," that's right. You know that when you have to negotiate with a bank, that when you have to ask for money, the important thing is not to argue too much, and you're a bank that always wants to go out winning with the university, but you don't queue them anymore, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u174	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u175	Thank you again. You look like you, Counsellor, to inform us of the new funding plan for the Greek university system 2016-2020; if I don't remember correctly, the fifth plan since 1990. And I have pointed out here that the Government of Greece considers that this plan has brought about a great deal of the objectives of targeted funding – put it on the plan – above all. According to the German Government, that plan is dynamic, flexible, sustainable, equitable and efficient. But, Counsellor, in the view of the BNG – you already know it – for us this plan that has ended was a serious cut in the resources of those who could provide the Greek public university for its financing. A serious cut which is causing major economic asphyxiation and which means cutting structural funding, cutting human resources and cutting research funding. Although you say here that the two-party government in 2009 was unable to reach a plan, I would like to remind you that at that time the investment of 2009 in university education would amount to 385.8 million real euros, plus 48.8 executed at 90% in research. In 2009, that year the bipartisan couldn't sign a plan. But after the plan that you so important signed, at the end of the plan, in 2015, instead of 385 million you signed 322, in the last year after five. That's the effectiveness of Mr. President of the Board, Mr. Feijóo, who in the second legislation the only one that brought with the Plan of Financing of the Greek University System were cuts and more cuts. That's right, on the paper that the cut is not on, because they're still arguing that they were the best possible. From 2009 to 2015 close to 86 million euros cut. Last April we were talking about how Compostela, Vigo and La Coruña universities lost between 20 and 22 million, from the order of 6 to 16% of euros cut. Mr. Feijóo's cut, which in 2015, at the end of the previous year, did not invest 0.8% of Galicia's GDP; when the average of the state, for us to have a reference, is almost 1.4%, almost double. By the way, at the state level, which is almost the average of Europe, i.e. the investment of the so important financial plan of the Union has been half the last half of Europe practically. And that, Counselor, that Galicia in 2009, in which the bipartite knew he couldn't negotiate, devoted a GDP of 0.90. Since 2009, 0.90 have dropped virtually to 0.7. Now, on paper that doesn't put it that way, on paper it makes it grow continuously. Certainly in that plan you were considering – and I have it here for not to be wrong – in 2011 the 0.92 of GDP, in 2012 the 0.93, in 2013 the 0.95, in 2014 the 0.98 and in 2015 it would be 1.1 of GDP; it remained at 0.7, a little less than half. There were totally false forecasts, of course; instead of increasing, which was what put the paper, they went down seriously. Despite the listening, despite the writing on the plan, the cut was continued and I will not abound because those who preceded me in the use of the word here on the street spoke of more than 600 dismissals from teacher and researcher – more than 600–, more than 1,287 researchers, less 6,000 university graduates, less student loss of more than 5,000 students. And this is the plan that said that the objectives of the targeted funding were met. Well, objective, of course, to our totally mistaken understanding. Severe cuts. By the way, in the face of this cut, the BNG Parliamentary Group has called attention to remedy the serious situation and to seek together with the university itself a sustainable future to understand that knowledge and research are fundamental to the creation of wealth in our country, to enhance our productive fabric and our industry, and to enhance higher education, research and transfer. But when all of Europe was investing more in the university – Germany was at 1.8 and went to 2 and is now at 2.5 – in Europe everyone increased the investment, in Galicia in reverse: from 1.1 planned to 0.7. The Rectors insisted that it was essential to greatly increase investment. And what is the Council's effort? Some 2,479 million, which is 2,069; 2,069 directly linked to this plan, because the others are linked to some plans that will come, you don't know how, when, or how. Some 2,069 who are practically what there was, because that 18% increase that the counselor announces is nothing more than what they tell the university to take out of this plan. But what is the funding plan of the Greek university system because at this moment it is the same as the previous one. I mean, more clippings. I'm not going to criticize that there may be some progress and improvements as to the objective data being taken into account, the size of the university in terms of teaching, which is won in transparency in certain things, but there are also some things that I don't understand very well. I know that structural funding for the Counsellor is sufficient, but there is a RAM section, which is constant, that those universities that have infrastructure needs – not all were born at the same time, nor have the same resources – with this funding I hardly see the subject. Ladies and gentlemen, for the development of a new 2016-20 funding plan, the BNG Parliamentary Group has always argued that there would have to be an assessment of the results, of the objectives achieved, of the degree of budgetary execution and of the real liquidation, and we even ask to enable formulas to be able to hear the views and approaches of the own university community of Galicia and its governing bodies before the adoption of the new funding plan. It was not possible, although the counsellor talks about transparency and talks about constructive dialogue. It wasn't possible on our part. For this model of the Greek university system, the BNG claimed that this Plan 2016-20 would take account, first, of the defence of a financing system of the public university in Greece which would provide sufficient funding for its structural part. Do you see enough funding in the RAM Plan and do you not understand that you can penalize the worst universities endowed with both scientific and research infrastructures, or do you think it is insufficient? Do you consider it sufficient that mechanisms should not be established to correct imbalances, because not all universities were born at the same time? Do you consider university staff enough? I remember: 600 minus PDI. And can you guarantee the quality of excellence when you're telling us that the teacher, 20%, is over 60? Is this teacher enough? To increase the public funding system we too, the BNG, in our previous appearance, and we ask that at least in the first year it had not been lower than 1.01 of GDP, which was what the former counsellor had promised. But from what I see, the 392 million euros are much less than the nearly 550, which would be 1.1%. Will Galicia follow the path, Counsellor, of the European countries, to increase its investment in GDP at the university or the expected increase will be like the previous one, negative one? Will it be a negative increase? And what word does the Greek Government councillor have that makes us believe in theirs when the previous one hasn't been fulfilled? We were talking, like BNG, at that time, about the need to promote collaboration between the three universities. I don't see any tools in that direction. We were also talking about the need to defend the teaching of the use of Greek. And it's true that here on the issue of quality improvement actions it speaks of a series of measures that will encourage the Government, to put in place by universities actions that will enable them to achieve objectives that are considered strategic. And they add a million euros to the distribution of degrees in English – don't I know how to share this? – to the distribution of at least 50% of the subjects of grade in Greek – don't I know if it means that there has to be a minimum of 50% to be able to collect or not? – ; programs of improvement in international rankings, another million; improvement in the organisational structure of the campus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u177	...this is an objective, but how do you do it? Now to finish, do you consider, Counsellor, that you can guarantee access to higher education by the student with this funding plan? Or are we what the previous comparative said: in the face of a genuine conversion, privatization of the university, in which it is a question of cutting teachers, cutting students and that only those who are born in an economically powerful cradle can access the university so that they don't have to depend on the resources of the scholarships, almost non-existent? Summary and completion: The funding plan of the Greek university system 2016-20 has been like 2011-15, a plan in which they speak that increases by 18%, in the role itself, but in reality it is not seen anywhere, and for us it remained at 0.7% of GDP investment, when the former advisor spoke...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u178	Thank you, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u179	...that last year would be 1,1. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u180	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, again. Counsellor, I'm sorry to come here too to bring you down to reality; come down to reality from what is today the Greek university, the Greek university system, and to what have converted austerity policies and policies of drowning to universities Mr. Feijóo's policies. Look, Counsellor, today's university with the government of Feijóo is on the one hand poorer – and we're going to talk about this – for a very important reduction in economic resources, far higher than actually reflecting budgets. Because he has a lot less personal, as the previous speakers said, a lot less personal than teachers, researchers and administrative and service staff, when that's the most important capital with which a university counts. A staff suffering from severe precariousness, and I'm not saying just about salaries and emoluments, which have already reduced 30% of their purchasing power; I'm talking about a much more serious precariousness, which I really did at the university of the early eighties of the seventies, I lived it, and I thought I would never live something like this. His lordships probably don't know that at the three Greek universities there are teachers who go ahead with two and three subjects for 300 euros a month. Yes, ladies, 300 euros a month. Many of them, not pockets, we don't talk about pockets, we talk about doctors, 300 euros a month. And there are also many teachers substitutes for teachers who were full-time who are taking the teaching forward, the teaching burden of these teachers full-time, but who have a part-time contract and who don't reach the 1,000 euros net a month. Counselor, you know I'm telling the truth. And when you get here and say that many teachers have been hired, these are the teachers you haven't hired, but they've allowed the universities to hire. Cheap labour, that's yes, highly qualified. That's what you're turning into the university of Galicia. As for R & D investment, Mr. Counsellor, it's good to be optimistic, but the truth is, I was frankly surprised. Like we're at Euscadi level? But do you know what the percentage of investment on Euscadi's GDP in R & D is? 2.04. Do you know which one is Galician? 0.86. What do they look like, Counselor, what do they look like, what do they have three numbers on both of them? Because it's 2.04 versus 0.86. That can already be conceived clearly not as a mistake, but as a pure and harsh lie. The funding plan 2011-2015 I said at the time I was going to bring poverty and lack of resources to universities. I'm so sorry I was right. Because the previous funding plan has failed to achieve the system's economic adequacy, because it has lowered and cut the budget by 15%, 15%, Counsellor! The Greek universities today, in 2016, in constant terms, have a level of funding similar to 2005, 2005, Counsellor! Let's go back a decade. That's the big contribution of the 2011-2015 funding plan: to go back a decade in university funds. And the reduction is even greater, Counsellor, because you know that university R & D budgets are not executed; 25 percent less than those R & D budgets are not implemented. By 2015 at least EUR 60 million was no longer implemented. It's 60 million euros lost in Galicia's R & D system, and you tell us we're up against Euscadi. And I don't say it anymore, just review the data given by CRUE's "Report of the Spanish University in 2013 and 2014", indicating that the university system research has dropped by 27% between 2008 and 2013; far above the Spanish measure, which is 14%. This is what happened. But besides, you didn't do what they said, i.e., you cheated universities, too, in the funding plan. They promised 2,016 million in five years, actually delivered 1,891 million, page 83 of the current funding plan. Look, you, and there you are, 1,891, a 6,2 % less than they promised. Above that you say they gave 331 million, because it depends on discretionary funds, agreements, fundraising, aid... We don't know where these funds come from. I asked for the relationship of these conventions and this fund-raising to the University Secretariat. Of course, I didn't have an answer. So I don't know why I had to believe it. But besides, you do one thing, Mr. Counselor, extremely curious. You're telling universities that they have to raise more funds abroad, funds that, as you know, are very well captured in R & D funds, projects and so on from the Ministry in Madrid and Europe. And when universities pick them up and get into college accounts, you close these funds. And he says, of course, of course, no, we give the fund, the financing of the plan and, in addition, 338 million agreements, funds collected in Madrid... If not, where are these funds collected? Background... puts page 83 of your document as well. Look! So, what is true, Counsellor, is that the Government promised to make an investment of 1.01 of Galician GDP in 2015 in the university system, and it is far from achieving it; what it managed was to reduce from 0.90 to 0.7. That did make it. What percentage of GDP will increase the investment you say there will be in the new funding plan? As for the new funding plan, sir, because I don't have any more time. We start with a lie because in the 2016 budget there are no 392 million, there are 388. Sume. It's just that it's in the budget, that I don't know where you get these discretionary funds from. That's for a reason. And then, I don't know if you noticed that you're saying that you grow by 18%, that by the way, I don't believe it, it's not true, and I can show you, with this growth distributed over the next five years, it turns out that we need ten years, from 2011 to 2020, to reach the 2009 budget, which was 429 million, the same ones that we're going to have by 2020. That is, we need 2011 to 2020 to reach the budget for 2009. That is, yes, – as a spokesman said – an absolute conversion of the university. You're taking college to some limits that are already difficult – I hope – to go down. In addition to these funds, you say there will be 2,479 million, if I'm not mistaken. And 410 million of these are also for discretionary funding, they're not in the funding plan. You can't promise them because you say there's going to be these 410 million unknown sources through agreements, again fund-raising in Madrid. They're discretionary funds, Counselor. We're talking about funds that we don't know the source or we won't know the distribution. And you know what that means about total funds? 20%, 20% of the funds you say you're going to give to universities are discretionary, and they're not even safe because they're not going to be on the 2015-2016-2020 funding plan. On the other hand, you can't believe it because it turns out they're not in the previous plan anymore, why are they going to comply with this plan now? And I'm leaving for the second intervention something that has greatly caught my attention, Counselor. You don't get tired of asking the universities for excellence. All right, we all have to get to excellence as much as we can. You guys don't stop, but it's just that the funding plan you're presenting, outside the numbers, the previous analysis is surprisingly bad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u183	It's a really impressive lack of rigour and I'll comment on it in the second intervention. Because, Counsellor, excellence has to begin with itself; you cannot criticize universities as the Government does on many occasions and present a funding plan document as short as you are presenting in this Parliament. And I'll explain later why I say this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Mr Farínas speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u185	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. He compares today, Counsellor, to report on negotiations, talks and signing a new funding plan for the Galician university system. A funding plan that, as you have explained proly – if I may say so – will increase the quality, efficiency and scientific and technological production of the Greek universities. A plan, as you also said more transparent, more equitable, more modern and, go!, with more resources. But it seems that here, on Lestrove's side, they're experts in the martyrdom of numbers, and then martyred properly because they say what they want. But documents are documents and budgets are budgets. Of course, clarification, Mrs Burgo, Mr Pombo: you do not have much in this Fourth Committee on Education, Parliament asked for funding to which you referred today, 2009. Mrs Burgo, 401.3 million euros/392. Mr. Pombo, there we are. He sees that this plan, in addition, meets perfectly with things that you've been asking for in this House not long ago and that they believe impossible, but that today they are actually transformed by the appearance of an already signed fact, which is the new funding plan. And allow me, Counsellor, to tell you to finish an intervention in the plenary of this Parliament when I was a spokesman for the 4th Commission, in order to ask the Government to initiate negotiations for the signing of this plan that you present here today, and you would ask the then Counsellor, Mr Vázquez, to make a plan as good as the vigor. Well, here you present a plan that is not the same, that is, it's better, much better, with more funds, with more resources, with more autonomy capacity of universities, that we don't forget that they have their autonomy, recognized and respected, and we're the only ones we do here is to provide them with funds as coordinators, which is the College of Universities and, in no case, as an interventionist, which is what you came here to present here today in speeches and in others. In any case, we are talking about a plan that is a new commitment of the People's Party to public education, a new commitment of the People's Party to university higher education and a new commitment of the People's Party and of this government to public universities, and I repeat, inciting, remarking and stressing that of "public", ladies and public. In any case, he also referred to the counsellor in his last speech to the fact that proposals were adopted here with regard to universities, saying that there is indeed a parliamentary mandate, but that parliamentary mandate gave a curious result: 41 votes in favour, 34 votes against. That's the reality. Who voted in favour? The People's Party, the People's Parliamentary Group. Who's always against all these things? Well, they're always the same ones that are really always against and systematically opposing everything that the People's Parliamentary Group does, whether in this case in the House or in the Government of Galicia. And in Commission 4 on 17 March – to be concrete – there was also another request to urge the Union to meet a number of criteria and conditions of excellence, internationalisation. What happened? Well, Counsellor, 8 votes in favour; 8 votes in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group, none of the other political groups represented in this Chamber. You see that what you've called generous effort demonstrated by the Greek universities and the height of sights and sights as a whole of the rectors, as you have proclaimed and pronounced in the presentation of the plan, cannot be applied to the opposition. They're not generous, they're never going to be, they're not going to be with most of the people in Galicia, they're never going to be. But, well, anyway, ladies, I have to insist on questions I don't like. Mr. Vázquez, you called him a liar here, and to expose your lie you spoke from the University of Coruña. Well, look, there's no worse lie than telling a truth in half. You know what happens at the University of Coruña, you know what happened at the University of Coruña, but you don't tell everything. I'm telling you that this is due to two resources. By the way, one has already resolved and rejected, rejected by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, and now there is another pending decision. Why didn't you say what happened to that one? It was to the Follow-up Commission of the funding plan 2011-2015. What happened in the follow-up committee? That all members unanimously voted against the claim of funds made by the University of Coruña. But, well, you can continue to insist on half-hearted truths that you will still miss the truth. In any case, Counsellor, we are pleased that we present a plan in which we are committed to internationalization, the specialization of peripheral campuses as well as research, which is a clear and firm bet committed to clear budgets in this new funding plan. An internationalization, ladies and gentlemen, which, in spite of what was said here in coordination of the three universities, allowed the three Greek universities to compete together on the campus of international excellence with a single project, which is Campus T, to try to add it as a campus of international excellence – I repeat – to the two that we already have: Campus do Mar and Campus Vida; by the way, consolidated both. You won't let me lie, Mr. Losada. Confirmed, consolidated both, camps of international excellence! And we're waiting for more to be produced because the funds you say and the multi-year programming, which means that universities are going to know what they're going to get next year, so that means a guarantee for the programming of their activities and investments, which means that they're going to be able to present projects in common, of course, yes, in common. And from the investigation, Mr. Vázquez, I insist, I will say once again: the research – as Peter Drucker says – does not measure itself by its novelty, nor does it measure by its wit, unfortunately by its success in the market. And we were counting here because we got a diagnosis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u186	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u187	Ma'am, I'm going with you now. It turns out that here is a diagnosis of the research that was here in Galicia: the same number of researchers as Oxford, the same number of patents as Oxford. Ah!, Oxford raised 7 million euros, Galicia 75,000. That's what there was. Same number of patents; Oxford 530 million euros, Galicia 170. That was the difference, ladies and gentlemen, that's the difference of an investigation and another investigation. Today Galicia is the second largest research community in Spain. The sentence was clear, wasn't it? The second one. And if we look at those production indices, the University of Santiago occupies the fifth place, that of Vigo the sixth and that of Coruña the eighth. I don't mean what happened a few years ago. And, Mrs. Martínez, you said, since you said something from there that I didn't understand very well, you said in your moment that the counselor had come with the wrong duties. But that's a problem, but it's a problem for the teacher who has to correct, because here you have shown that you don't know, and then you had to resort to the wrong teacher: when the child or the child comes with the wrong exercises done correction: maaal, and an adjective, qualitative, in addition. We don't have to fix it here. You bring the solutions that you want to give to the plan, put them down, we'll be delighted to receive them. And I don't think because it seems to me that I'm more and more in the Joint Group, which is a terrible success...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u189	...is an absolute failure, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Finished, Madam President. Mrs Burgo, I think very well of the Basque Country's GDP, but you add that you are computing public GDP with private GDP and that 75% of the contribution of the Basque Country university comes from private funds. It'll go on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u190	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u191	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Flours, indeed, duties must be done, there is no doubt that duties must be done. And I believe that here we are considering the facts, we have heeded the parliamentary mandate, we have made a dialogue with the universities, and in time and way we have approved a university funding plan in a manner consistent with the three universities. Well, I don't know if it's doing my homework or not. What I see, and what I saw in the speeches we have just seen, is that some Members have stayed in the previous course. Some Members seem to have stayed in some courses behind, because they're still with a speech that I really don't find a place for you in today's course. And it's less bad that we're here presenting a university funding plan that was unanimously approved by all the members of the Galego Council of Universities, which was referendumed by the three universities. Unless this funding plan has an increase in public funding by more than 18%, it's less bad, because if not, what would you say? Unless there was a process of constant dialogue, difficult, but ongoing dialogue with universities, because it's not easy to agree with three institutions that have sometimes different philosophies, that have different models, but that were able to park partial issues for general interest, less bad! And less bad than the three universities and the Galician board, we share the model of what the university of the future should be, at the service of the country, less bad! because if it hadn't been like that, what would you tell us? And, of course, I would also tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is good for you to ask in other autonomous communities, to ask what is the budgetary situation of other autonomous communities, many of which are left-wing historically, so that you ask if you pay the payrolls in time, the debts that the Government has with these universities, the financial operations to which it obliges them not to pay by the autonomous communities to universities, all teacher training scholarships are convened, all scholarships of research groups are called. Ask, ask, why I insist: less bad we are in an autonomous community that has been well governed and we are not in autonomous communities governed on the left, where the university was or is in a much more difficult situation than ours is. And also less bad than in the previous funding plan, approved by this government too, economic data are: start, 2,105 million; end, 2,230 million. Absolutely objective data. Unfortunately, the funding plan was able to increase, on the one hand, by the efforts to raise resources for universities, but it is their responsibility and also part of their mission as a public institution, less ill! And less importantly, ladies and gentlemen, we can no longer insist on constant topics. You tell us about absolutely constant topics, which we then see our data, those reports that don't appear to you, and your claims remain at all. And I'm going to give you a very clear example, which apart from that, I think, is a topic that has become a regular topic: You say that the university of Galicia is a professional form that they don't use in Galicia, dino, I've heard it here many times. Mr. Gallego gives it to his head. So I'm going to tell you a fact: the USC work integration study – perhaps the best work integration study done at Spanish universities, which is recognised by the CRUE, which actually copied its methodology – tells us the data, the last known data tells us that 82.5% of the graduates, that is, of the university graduates in Greece, work in Galicia, 82.5%, 13.6% in Spain and only 3.9% in abroad. But, of course, you have your topics and they don't come out. And I insist: less bad that this data is real, because if not, how would you be intervening in this appearance? Mrs. Martínez, I'm going to surprise you: I agree with you at one point, a very difficult thing. We agree that university research must be applied and directed towards productive sectors so that they are more competitive. Practically what you said I only agree with this, because with the rest – forgive me – it doesn't come out of the topic I said earlier. Now, this has to be accompanied by the facts, not just to say it. Of course, you said here, that you belong to the left breaker, I don't know which part of that breaker left breaks every day, but you said here that you're very concerned about employment, about the strategic sectors, about the workers. And yet today it was seen as a part of that breakaway left was unable to bet on a strategic production sector as fundamental as automotive. So, of course, you say one thing, but then when you have the opportunity to really be useful to the country, you get profiled, you prefer your topic, and eventually a strategic sector like the automotive sector, because you didn't have much support on the left breaker of which you are part. Mr. Vázquez, I'd tell you that you've made zero contributions to talking about what the university model is or what you understand by university. One thing became clear to me: you talked about money, you talked about numbers, many of them frankly questionable, and you set up a university so that we can perceive it isolated from society, a university that has no contact with the productive sectors, that has no connectivity to the economic sectors, that does not capture resources, that does not matter the employability rates. It seems to you that college is a part of society that has nothing to do with the whole of it. Obviously, we do not agree there and we have an absolutely different speech; I think it is seen by the financing plan itself. And maybe there's a strong contradiction in his speech. You say, by balancing the previous plan, on the one hand, that universities do not capture resources, and you also say that there are fewer resources from Galicia's board for universities. So if they don't capture external resources and there's no contribution from the Galician Board, how can you explain that the economic amount of the previous plan goes from 2,105 million to 2,230 million? It's an absolute contradiction, it's not based on any kind of perspective. Mr. Pombo, you – and it's also common to some extent in the speeches we've been seeing – tell us about an elite university where they're only going to study the rich of citadels – you said so: the rich of citadels – and that's the privatization model of the People's Party. I said this in the previous debate: I am from a very humble family, the former adviser was the son of an emigrant, other counselors are children of very humble families, and most of this hemicycle we are from absolutely normal families. And I have absolutely the conviction that at no time is meant to make an elite university for the rich of cribs. It's just that this really stays out of place, it's a topic, it's a topic that suits you in the debate but it doesn't hold. [[Applause]] And you talk to us here – Mrs. Burgo has also told us and some other spokespersons – that the data is unreal. You said even textually that the 18% increase corresponded to what the universities would capture abroad, through calls, which is their function, their mission. Well, let me make an absolute contradiction, just like Mrs. Burgo, when she says that the money is painted in the budget but that it doesn't exist. Look, the financial schedule of the university's public funding plan is clearly explained in the plan itself, and there are splits within the plan and departures outside the plan, which are always public funding, because they are public, autonomous, state or even European funding, but which are part of the mission to attract external resources to investigate universities. Or do you want universities not to work hard to capture resources? So you do, a moderate forecast, even I would say conservative: in total amounts you plant an estimated fixed amount of 82 million euros, which is what is expected to pick up universities based on the histories that exist, and that amount is fair. I'm sure this amount is going to increase because universities are trying; researchers and research groups are trying to capture external resources to investigate and contribute the performance of this research to the country, which is how it has to be. For at no time is that increase that you say is comparable to external resources, but it is the sum of the resource itself and also of the external resource, but it is games that are linked and that are within the scope of public funding. And, look, it was also mentioned here – and Mrs. Burgo said – that in the previous plan there was a cut. You said the word "shortcut" on many occasions, Mr. Pombo, but Mrs. Burgo told us that there was a cut in the matches that transferred the Autonomous Community to the universities of 6.2%, in the previous plan, from the year 2011, I remember. You know perfectly well and you're going to force me to repeat here what's the cause of this 6.2% cut from the Autonomous Community to universities: no less than a famous decree by Mr. Zapatero, which has frozen the salary for all public officials, and also university officials, and that has led to a lower transfer from chapter I to the professor. That's what I accept, but you know what the reality of that data is. And I would also like to highlight something that I share with you: the entry wages in the university system. I share it with you clearly. You spoke here that we are now very cautious, but that in the 1980s we were very well, more or less said so, more or less. No, we're much better now than in the 1980s. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I was an associate professor at the university, and you, too, I charge 38,000 pesetas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u192	Don't talk, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u193	...and charged as part-time professor 103,000 pesetas. The university entry salary costs are low, I recognize it. But that's not true of the People's Party, it's not true of a financing plan, that's the structure itself. And that data is real, you know it the way I know it, I mean, it's low entry wages. There's also a question that I would like to make very clear, because sometimes it's said or if you want to say what one says, and it's not true, I think that we shouldn't allow it. You say the People's Party, the Government criticizes universities publicly. Never, ever came out of my mouth or any government member, and I'm surprised that some member of this House, the People's Party, a critique of universities. Never, never. Now, if you understand by criticism the need for us to be more excellent as a university at all, or to be more competitive to raise funds, or more specialized, or to have a more appropriate academic offer to social demands, or a more applied research, which is what we want with our university model, then I'm going to say yes, in that sense yes. But that philosophy that I just told you is absolutely shared with universities, because they understand that 21st century university cannot be equal to the university of the 19th century, and it is necessary to move forward, improve, progress, and advance in everything I just said, in specialized research, applied research, in connectivity with companies, in all that. And I insist: there has never been, and there will never be a criticism of university autonomy and the role of universities, simply because I would be criticizing myself without going further. And they also criticised here in a veiled way about all the spokespersons as if the principals and universities were obliged or we blackmailed them to sign the plan. That allows me... well, I wouldn't miss about the institution, nor the principals saying that, between you and me, "sell" your institution or that you don't care about your institution. Look, the Rectors negotiated and negotiated very hard with the Galician Board, the Vice-Rectors negotiated very hard with the Galician Board in the different forums, in the Rectors-Conseller Forum or in the General Vice-Rectors-Secretariat Forum, and defended their position. But while they defended their stance, they were also aware that it is very important to cooperate, that it is very important to have a country vision, that beyond the specific issues of each one, what matters is the joint, coordinated and unique model of the university system. And I think you've been tremendously up to the circumstances and you've been able to park your specific issues for the sake of general interest, and I think that's what we all win at the end. I'd be worried if a university was very happy and a very sad one, by saying it in a very graphic way. They all have their problems, which means there was a clear, concrete, transparent negotiation, in which everyone gave up something. The Autonomous Community has also given up many things for the sake of common interest and for cooperation. And I think, in the end, you're trying to transfer an image of disillusionment from universities, honestly, it has no basis. In any case, and already to finish, I mean that this plan is a plan that outlines a five-year temporary scenario of university funding; it is a plan that also bets on efficient management by universities, and they themselves are aware of the need to boost this type of management; it also bets on diversifying sources of funding; it bets on increasing the percentage of results in funding; it bets on being more specialized, on being more competitive; it bets on having better teaching results and researchers; ultimately, it bets on a better university and a better university in the future. And, above all, it is a plan that is always based on loyalty and consensus. For these reasons, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that duties are done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u194	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u195	Thank you, President. Mr. Farinas, very late in the afternoon, you were bored, you weren't so careful, you got the job joke and I understand that the rest of what I said is entirely in agreement with me, only you criticize me for saying that the counselor did some of the homework exercises wrong or most of them. The only criticism, and I think very well, and I agree with you that I accept this criticism, and I hope the counselor will also accept it. Then I put my hands to my head and I was alarmed at his incredible phrase: research is measured by success in the market. You just said it here. It was a phrase that alarmed the whole opposition, because that means investigating, for example, for the treatment of rare diseases is taking money. That's the concept that you have of research, university and social benefit that university and research have to have. It was his sentence. I understand that you want to withdraw, surely you wouldn't mean that, because I imagine something so tremendous will not even think of a party like the People's Party, which we know what you think. He says the opposition talks about topics, and he talks like a topic of emigration, of talented youth, of youth... then I've been listening to another Mr. Flares, because it seems he didn't say anything about what I heard. I don't know if the opposition heard the same thing as me, but in principle it did. Well, of course, I appreciate that the counselor recognizes that this synergy is necessary, but the reality is that it's not shaped as one of the fundamental points in this plan. All there is is for this synergy is that companies are offered skilled and cheap labour, contracts in the practice of holders, part-time contracts, with wages of misery. And that's the only synergy there is, you don't walk towards anything else. He doesn't walk about to retain talent, there are no offers for talent, the Union itself doesn't hire talented people for college. We were talking about the reduction of university staff in all professional categories. And we're tired of talking about the precariousness of researchers, who have to look for funds to be able to investigate, with absolute precaution that doesn't guarantee them to be able to move forward, and which, therefore, makes it harder for them precisely to get those research aids. So we understand it's a plan that won't solve the problems. I already say: it's not just an economic issue, that it's also, but it's the very concept that the People's Party has of what the university is, what it's supposed to be, how you access that university and who you should access that university. And I defend that all Greeks and Greeks with talent and ability to develop must have access to university. But that doesn't happen today, we were talking about the system of bags, you deny reality, and that's where we found ourselves. You pretend to live by propaganda and that what you put on paper is reality. But one thing is what you put in paper and another thing after that is that budgets apply and how the plans that you yourselves draw up are developed. So I think it's still a very lame plan, a plan that discriminates precisely those faculties and those careers that have a high degree of research, laboratory, technology, and these are discriminated against precisely by that RAM plan. But you said, too, and it's over, that since the opposition, we said that the repertoires were sold. Look, all my respect for the university principals, who had a very difficult role: either swallow the frogs that the Government of Greece imposes on them, or close the university because they need funding, because you have them suffocated. And yet above all, they come here to assume that it was an agreement with a huge consensus. No, it was a deal because there was no other remedy left. But it's not the plan that none of the universities wanted, nor is it the plan that no rector wanted. So this is still the People's Party's plan as always, a plan that will last as long as you rule. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else. Because as soon as you leave... it's true, they don't laugh...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u196	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u197	...they have destroyed the university system, they have young people with ability and talent without access to university, no scholarships... It's not true, there are no bags that meet the needs of people whose economy doesn't allow them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u198	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u199	...to undertake a university career. They come here to take our hair, not to us, to the principals and all those young and young girls who want to study at the university and can't for lack of help, and to all those university graduates and graduates who walk the world ahead, because in our country they don't find work or support from the institution.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Vázquez Díaz speaks for the AGE Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u201	Well, Mr. Farinas, I have seriously lost myself with your intervention, I have lost myself on repeated occasions in understanding your argument, I have lost myself when you say I poured out in this House half truths; I don't know what you were referring to, because I refer to official data from different sources and from different organisms. Honestly, they have this kind of habit of questioning the data offered by opposition groups without counterposing any data, because all their intervention was a sort of anecdotal narrative of anecdotes that little allowed to solve. But, well, I think, as I said in my speech, no one was able to beat up on this chamber that the university suffered serious budget cuts, no one refuted it, no one could beat it, because it's a fact. And so he cheated on universities, deceived society when the previous funding plan was signed, and said he'd assume more resources for public universities, as it is now being done, that he's lying. And it is true that universities are coerced by the Council of Galicia, because, of course, they impose an absolutely impossible budget scenario, which, therefore, derives them from a scenario of permanent appeal, from a new fund allocation, from a new resource allocation, and they know that they will have to negotiate their debt, negotiate their deficit with the Council of Galicia itself, and in that scenario of survival it is what they go through year after year. So how can there be no agreement? How can there be no blackmail? On whom do universities rely more budgetly, but on the government? We have less funds, it becomes clear, we have fewer teachers – 1,000 teachers less –, we have fewer researchers – 1.5000 researchers at the university –, we have a university with an aging teacher, we have an abysmal fall of resources for R & D+i. I mean, what parameter if it's improved, what parameter? Because it's said here that we're telling half-truths or whole lies, but in what parameters has university funding improved? That's why I, Mr. Farinas, tell you to lose me, because you don't offer any data. Tell me how soon did the college staff paintings increase? How soon have university budgets increased in the last five or ten years? How soon has scientific production increased in recent years? Look, I'll tell you, you spoke Oxford. The scientific articles produced by our country, by the Spanish State – I mean in this case – by millions of inhabitants is the number 23 position of OECD countries, number 23, but we are below the state average, eh! The number of triad patents on the part of the Spanish State is OECD number 28, point 28. [[Murmurs.]] And you come here to talk about Oxford, as if... it sounds good, I'm going to be fine here, I'm talking about Oxford, like, four nuisances, and here we get out of the way, which is what it's all about. It's up to this step to get out of the way, that's what's really amazing. I told him very clearly: there's not a single parameter that resists his funding plan, and that's the reality. You do a real speculation exercise when you speculate with a predictable increase in the collection of resources by the University of Galicia. How will the collection of resources increase? Is that the line they're following over the last five years with their results-based funding? Well, the truth is, no. You get up here, you sell smoke, but the reality of the university is that you have to take forward plans of viability in order to get ahead of you, which are cheating on payrolls -- that's the reality -- that they have deficits and they have debt. And all of this will be due to its resource increase. Imagine, I don't know what country they really live in: everyone's wrong except you. And, of course, the statements by all principals are that their funding plan is excellent. That's a lie. They didn't say that. They said it was better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u203	...but that was what there was. Obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u204	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the BNG Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u205	Counsellor, I am sorry that you have not answered any of the questions that the BNG Parliamentary Group has asked you about the funding plan. This leads me to strengthen myself in the existential doubt of being pending what happened to the end of it, because that is why we live it: a plan that started in 2011 and ended in 2015, which spoke of 0.92 GDP in 2011 and would increase to 1.1% in 2015. But the reality, Counselor, is that in 2011 for university education 385 million and 2015 not more, but 322 million. That's the reality. So we have to play with reality, because what is put on paper... paper has the hand of everything, but reality is ahead of it. And the reality of our country, Counselor, is this plan that ended – which we see as it is – that despite begging that it would increase from year to year it turned out to be backwards; so, we're vaccinated about it. The reality is that Galicia is below Spain's average in structural funding per student. The reality is the data that says – I read in the report of the funding plan – that it is the fifth most reduced costs of universities, reduced ten points above average material investment, reduced thirteen points above average expenditure in research, and of that 1,1 % of GDP that we were going to have to invest in 2015 we were at 0.7. That's the reality, and that's what the BNG Parliamentary Group knows. And as a result of that reality, we also know that students leave university in the middle of the course for hundreds. And if you talk to the principals, I suppose they'll tell you, because the university itself has to allow special credits so that the one in the middle of the course doesn't pay the tuition that doesn't go home. That's the reality, and those families, Mr. Counselor, those who leave are not the rich, I tell you. So that's what I meant. So we talked about reality and we talked about a plan we know, which was a cut-down plan, despite the announcement that it was going to grow a world. He cuts into the investigator's staff, research professor's staff, the student's, in the promotion even of the Greek even, and cuts in the serious staff, because they count for hundreds, it's not that there was a problem up or down. There was an adjustment plan that lasted until 2022 to drown a millionaire debt, there was a lack of liquidity at the university. That's the reality, and then we can't forget it. And we know that these cuts will be paid now and in the future, the Galician society will pay for it, and it will pay for it with worsening the living conditions of our society and the smallest possibilities for our country's development. That's what we know. And the BNG has always defended as a priority that, first, Galicia was interested in the fact that the three Greek universities acted with country vision, taking into account the principles of cooperation – as you have said –, collaboration and joint planning, but in this plan I have not found economic tools to that end. Over the next five years, the Bloc is tired of repeating in the committees and in Parliament itself that the Greek university system will need more funding to take on the important challenges in which it is immersed: the consolidation of research – the European level speaks of 3% GDP, I don't know whether that is a role or not – a full rating map for Galicia, a reform of Mr. Wert's famous university system, the defense of public university and the recovery of professors – and that is why resources are needed –, the defense of a model of the public Greek university system, the defense of a model that guarantees the rights of the Galicians and the Greeks. Counsellor, also those who are born in a cradle not economically abundant, because there are many who can't go, and if you don't know it, you don't know it, you don't know it. And I don't think you know the country. So don't come here to say things that BNG doesn't say. I didn't find in this plan any economic tools to guarantee this right, and that's why I'm telling you. And I'm going to finish. Counsellor, it says the plan that the Board must make this plan and the resources necessary to converge with the state and European average of public service in higher education in university as a percentage of gross domestic product. That gave the plan itself, God, written teno...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u206	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u207	...but the economic tools are not there. And to finish, Counselor, I hope you answer some of the questions I have asked you. If I may, like an intruder innence – which today is Tuesday of the Entrood – as I am going to leave here a saw: nevertheless, counsellor, of this plan so enlarged and similar to the old plan, a new cut plan. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u208	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Burgo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u209	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, the truth is that in 2015 – we are still starting 2016 – the Greek universities have the 2005 level of budget. The truth is, with Mr Feijóo's government and this funding plan, universities have lost ten years. And if it were true that you were going to increase the funds of the new plan by 18% and reach 429 million in 2020, we would be reaching the 2009 level. I'm sorry to tell you so clearly, but with you the university, the Greek university system, it's been back ten years. That's not just having the budgets ten years ago, it's that they lost ten years of opportunities, ten years of growth, ten years of that the Greek university system was going to meet every time and grow in the ranking, which, of course, was doing quite well – not to say very well – with the funds they have. That's the reality. As a matter of fact, Mr. Counsellor, the contributions of the old plan only reached 1,891 million – I insist, page 83 of the document –. Why? Because you're not telling the whole truth. The cut – let's call it that – of Mr. Zapatero's salaries was in 2010, by 2011 that was already collected. And the fall was from 2011 – where it was already collected – until 2015, because it was already the adjusted wage mass. But you forget that Mr. Feijóo's government cut 5% of the staff salaries from the universities, and the Board and other officials, falling into the absurd paradox, Counselor, that the teachers who saw most cut their salaries by that 5% – which in that case was probably from the 7th and even from the 10th – were the teachers who showed their excellence, because you could only cut the salary in the supplements of excellence. I mean, it's bad for you to have university excellence. It's true that I'm telling you, you know, because the plugins have been cut; the more excellence they have shown, the more the crop has been. It seems to me a way, I don't know, a little particular; I don't know if it works. A pedagogic way of raising excellence, look, Counselor, it's not, because one makes accounts and says, almost best not to give me the complement of excellence, which lowers my salary. That's what's happening, Counselor. So there's a reduction, the previous funding plan has not been met, as this one is not going to be fulfilled, and you know it perfectly well. Do not cheat, when it comes to self-financing, you have to talk strictly about what the Autonomous Community gives public funds to universities, that is, what is in heading 422C and 561B of budgets. Everything you say about discretionary funds, Mr. Counsellor, that we're talking about that you mean that you're extending the funding plan, that's not true, with discretionary funds, that's not funding plan, that's gathering universities with their work of public and private funds. So don't cheat, there's no 18%. There will be as much – if we arrive, as I doubt – as many as 2,069 million, and the rest is not autonomous funding, Counsellor. It's just that we can't compare different units, as you know perfectly well. And the truth is, what's most problematic is to see the idea that you have of the university and that Mr. Farigna has nailed. You think of the university, the idea that Mr. Farinha, Farinha – sorry – has very clear: an economical view of the university, a commercialist view where knowledge has a price and a value that is marked in the market. But the university, Mr. Farinas, is much more than a service provider. Because thinking of university as a service provider and with a business vision, with an economic vision, does not stop being a business vision and even, above all, simplistic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u211	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Mr Farínas speaks for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u213	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Burgo, don't get angry, it wasn't a correction, I just like being called by my name correctly, it wasn't a joke or stuff like that. Madam President, Counsellor, you don't seem to like us having a consensual plan, we have a plan that came out unanimously from the Galego Council of Universities, but we really like it, and then we tell it. We say that we are very glad that you were able to draw up a plan – as we say – far better than the previous one, to leave resources armoured for universities during the period 2016-2020. And so I'm very sorry about the duties, but, Mrs. Martínez, duties are corrected and unanimously by the court, the Galician Council of Universities and Rectors, very well; that was the note. I can't lie, of course, here they probably didn't like it very much. But, look, a Rector is going to stimulate the performance capacity of universities, we're going to have an advanced economic scenario. Attention: "although our initial proposal was not accepted, the current distribution indicators are better." [[Murmurs.]] That gave a rector of a university. And, Mr. Vázquez, another one says, "Although I consider it better, the positive part is that it has a true scenario that offers stability." And I don't say, tell the principals. And I read because I want to be strict. Ladies and gentlemen, bags, before-now. There's no color, when 300 million euros are put up in a stock exchange budget, Mrs. Burgo, that's not elite, is it, then, what's going to be 300 million euros less? Well, he'll be much more elitist. And if I made a reference, Mr. Vázquez, Oxford, it was because that reference is made on the board of R+D+i when the ex ante and ex post evaluation was made. It is not said by Hippolytus Farinas, nor by the People's Parliamentary Group, that it is given by the studies carried out by the sector. And I'm just the reflection. You've adjusted? If there were adjustments in the university staff, of course there were staff with temporary contracts, because the center of the Greek university system, Mrs. Burgo, the staff officer has increased. I'm going to repeat this: the staff with indefinite contracts, the focus, both in professors and professors, as well as doctors hired, has grown. Thus, in 2008, 3,023; take note, Mr Vázquez, that never takes note of the data: 3,023; last course with data, already governing Feió in this legislation: 3,224. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Take note. Then don't say no data. What happens is that data is given here, again and again, in the commission, in the plenary, I, the general secretary of universities, the counsellor, this, the previous one, and we continue to mash in green rye, in green rye, Mrs. Burgo, in green rye. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The legislation that the most personal investigator has consolidated, this one. Unrefutable data. And if they don't back us up. Competitive reference groups. You were talking about your investigation. Competitive reference groups, special growth groups... how many did they have?, you know? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] About 600. Do you know how many they had accumulated enough data to be considered of quality? About 100. Today there are more than 300 competitive reference groups. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're there, I don't make them up, they're there for you to help them whenever you want. Rectors of the University of Santiago: "He said he didn't make the crisis pay to universities, highlighting the neutrality of the Union in the process." They say otherwise, they don't tell the truth, but they keep saying it. Labour Commissions: "Galicia is the Autonomous Community with lowest budget download from all Spain". I didn't tell Joine, Workers' Commissions. CRUE: "The financing of the Spanish public university system. Galicia is the Autonomous Community with less liquidity debt over the initial budget". I don't say, you gave the Rectors Conference.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u215	Criticisms, Mrs. Burgo, yes. We are happy to have done not one, but two financing systems; you have tried to make one and said to Mrs. Sánchez Piñón: of course, that in times of scarcity – it seems 2008 was scarce, imagine these pasts! – that you can't, that you must do it in times of expansion. Well, we did. And it wasn't a time of expansion, it was a time of restriction. And one fact, allow me, Madam President, because this is very important. They referred to the data they gave here wrong, because they alluded to Denmark and the investment. Yes, yes. Denmark, per inhabitant, EUR 30; Galicia, 55. Investment per capita: Denmark, 1,350, of which 886 private; Galicia, 1,573...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u217	...over the average of Spain, and only behind Aragon, the Basque Country and Cantabria. More data you want? Next time. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u218	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. They continue to base their speech on the word "shortcut". I ask them a question: do you tell me that the public sector has had no adjustments, has not had cuts in recent years in Galicia or Spain? Do you tell me what level of administration, whether it's a council, an autonomous community or the state, that in recent years I haven't had that administration holding my belt? Do you also tell me that political formation that has ruled some institutions in recent years has not had to make adjustments or cuts, because you have also ruled, the left has also ruled some autonomous communities, some municipalities? You want to tell us, do you want to convince citizens that you haven't applied any budget adjustments? If they really want to, they'll be real magicians. But really the last few years have been very difficult. Fortunately, things are beginning to change. They were very difficult years, tremendously difficult. But it's also no less true that things are fortunately changing in recent months, so to speak in recent times. Let's hope for the good of this country and for the good of the people we live in this country that this schedule is gradually and gradually going, it's growing up on a positive path, don't go back. We hope that political banalization will not take us back to Spanish society and Greek society, because it would really be a sad question for all of us who had to suffer, all of us, with these years, difficult situations. And it was mentioned here about the university, in particular, that it would go back ten years. I'd ask them to get the partisan view out of the way, because saying that today's university is the same as 10 years ago is frankly, by saying it in a soft way, or a lack of knowledge, or a lack of respect for the work and modernization that the university has had in the last 10 years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, if you see the scientific publications, if you see the percentage of resource collection, if you see the ability of the university to make more patents, if you see the specialization of campuses, if you see the modernization in the academic offer, for example, at the time of the headlines, if you see the role of research groups, the number of professional researchers that are going on, if you see research infrastructures, research equipment in centers like CINBIO, ICU, CACTI, MTI at the University of Vigo, for example, actually saying that we're like ten years ago is a partisan contamination, it's an argument without any kind of foundation. In any case, what we must celebrate today, and at least this political formation and government celebrate it, and I think the university community also celebrates it, is that we have a plan that will last for five years, a plan until 2020, which will set a path and a roadmap known, transparent and consistent with universities. It is a roadmap that, starting from the point of view of university autonomy, sets a path of solvency for universities, guarantees the functioning of universities and, of course, bets on why those research groups or research units that are best doing their work have more results and have more economic funds, rewarding the effort, work and quality of the university professor and university investors. I think that's a tremendously positive thing, because a funding plan isn't just putting money on the table, which is, it's also fixing a roadmap, shared in this case. And there are a number of basic, basic, university policy issues in which we absolutely agree with the universities and the Galician Union. One is cooperation. Interuniversity cooperation, fundamental, contemplated in the plan; fundamental so that we can all have a genuine university system, where we seek synergies and collaborate among universities to have a better university system. That's in the plan itself, it's also in the University Law itself, which was approved with the Rectors' consensus; you, on the left, voted against. The college consortium that is going to start this year was set up in this law. [[Applause]] What do we intend? To cooperate, that universities cooperate and be stronger by cooperating; to avoid duplication; to bet on cooperation; to bet on resources together. That's going to be done with the interuniversity consortium. It's not negative, on the contrary. It's not negative that the source of funding in universities is diversified, that is, we can be universities able to capture external resources. That is tremendously positive, because it means that they are competitive, at competitive level, with other universities, even at European level, or that there are ERC researchers, who compete at Community level for Community and European scholarships and projects. Very positive, because it stimulates the quality of the system and because they are also able to capture external resources. The more external resources reach the university much better, no doubt, because it will lead to a more competitive and much more connected university with productive systems. And I think that's something we share with college. Just like we share with universities there's a campus specialization. And Junta is doing, designing a roadmap by collaborating with universities to bet on specialization. Without going further: the Water Campus in Ourense, the Earth Campus in Lugo, the Industrial Campus in Ferrol, fundamental. That specialization in order to be more competitive and more connected to its surroundings, where they live, where the companies are, where the society around that university is. Of course, we're going to follow this path, we're also going to bet in the future on the Campus Crea de Pontevedra or on the Campus da Cidadanía here in Santiago. Or having – and there we also agreed – an offer of titrations that met the country's social and productive demands, not having double titrations, or having no titrations that society does not demand, that students do not demand, that there are no students, or that students who are in these careers have a very difficult job exit. We need to reform it, and we agree with the universities and the Galician Union. In short, the funding plan is not just to set up resources, more resources. You say it's a lie, well, what are we going to do with it? I don't think we're gonna try to convince them there. You tell it as a practically religious question, you don't have to tell them, but, well, the data is on the table -- an 18 more increase. But aside from that, it's not only to put resources on the table, it's also to design – and this funding plan is looking at it just like the previous one – the university of the future, the university that needs the country, the university that needs society and the university that needs the productive sectors. For what? In order for Galicia to be better and our universities to carry out its mission, which is to train people, of course, but it's also to be an exchange point in the productive sectors and in the economy. And that mission that the teaching, research and transfer universities have is collected. In short, this plan sets an agenda, and sets a shared agenda, which not only economics, which also seeks a better university. Finally, he's looking for a better Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u220	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to adherence to drug treatment in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u221	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[G.P. Together, through his Consuelo Martínez García and in the light of Rule 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, he presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-law proposal.Replacement amendment.The text of the resolution of the non-law proposal must be replaced by the following:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council of Galicia to:1. To put into service urgently and permanently a palliative care unit for the Galician districts that still lack it, so that it complies with Law 5/2015, of June 26, of rights and guarantees for terminally ill persons and the Galego Plan of Palliative Care ensuring adequate health care for all sick persons, both in their outpatient and residential mode.2. To put in urgent and permanent service a hospital hospital unit in Domicilio for the region of Galicia that still lacks it, so that people are guaranteed not sick terminals given hospital discharges, the same health care as in the hospital. 3. Provide maximum urgency to mental health units of professionals sufficient to follow up on adherence to the treatment of psychiatric patients who require it.4. Improve the infrastructure of all health centres that have serious deficiencies for their use.5. To build, with the utmost urgency, all health centres committed since 2009 and which, having the sun, are still not built.6. Provide primary care of the human and material resources necessary to ensure the full health care of users, including the follow-up of treatments, their life habits, their psychosocial situation,..."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. on the basis of Article 161.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, Mr Montserrat Prado Cores, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.A new point should be added:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Council to address the Government of the Spanish State by requiring the derogation of the following regulations: Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April, to ensure the sustainability of the "National Health System" and improve the quality of its benefits."]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[(G.P. At the initiative of Ms Carmen Acuña do Campo, through the spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to the Bureau the following amendment to this non-legislative proposal.A new point should be added after the resolution of the non-legislation proposal:"The Parliament of Galicia urges the Government of Galicia to:(a) abolish pharmacologics because they hinder therapeutic adherence.(b)Recover for public funding those excluded drugs and necessary for the proper care of chronic diseases.(c)Modify the bases used for the purchase of health products and drugs so that the quality on the price of the product prevails in the calibration.(d) adequately empowers the role of the pharmacy in primary care to analyse interactions and other parameters that influence adherence and therapeutic follow-up.")]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u222	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u223	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The People's Parliamentary Group today brings to this plenary an initiative that has to do with improving the health of our population in relation to the so-called "therapeutic adherence." In September 2014, we unanimously approved in Commission 5a an initiative calling on the Health Council to transfer to this House a report on the number of drugs prescribed and not withdrawn from the pharmacies by the Greeks and the Greeks before the end of that year 14. As a result of this approval, the director of the Galego Health Service, Mr. Fernández Campa, would appear on the same committee for the presentation of the study carried out by the Health Council technicians to evaluate these parameters. And in that appearance we spoke of therapeutic adherence. So what does that concept mean? Therapeutic adherence is defined as the degree in which the patient's behavior coincides with the recommendations agreed between the healthcare professional and the patient himself. Include the patient's ability to attend scheduled appointments, take the medication as indicated, make changes in the recommended lifestyle, complete laboratory studies or required tests, and come to collect the results. This term highlights the patient's active participation and replaces the old term of compliance and non-compliance that passed the patient's role and also blamed him when he didn't. Of course, the lack of therapeutic adherence is a prevalent and relevant problem in clinical practice, and in a special way in the treatment of chronic diseases. There are multiple studies, but it is generally estimated that between 20% and 50% of patients do not take medication as prescribed, although the figures vary greatly according to the type of disease they are dealing with, and not more than 30% change their lifestyle habits. In the context of chronic diseases, the World Health Organization had already considered a report drawn up in 2003 on the lack of adherence to a priority public health theme, due to the negative consequences that it produces: therapeutic failures, increased hospitalizations and increased health spending as well. Dr. Eduardo Sabate, a WHO doctor, said in the presentation of this report that greater observance of prescribed treatments does not pose a threat to health care budgets, but will result in a significant reduction in the need for more expensive interventions, such as hospitalizations, unnecessary use of emergencies or intensive care. He also said that a rational use of medicines consists in respect of good prescription practices and in compliance with them by the patient. In two different studies, one with diabetics and heart disease, in which mortality was measured, in the group that did not meet, in the group that did not have therapeutic adherence, mortality was twice as much as in the other group. In another study of chronic patients with regard to hospitalization, the rates were significantly higher for patients with lack of adherence. Although professionals know that approximately one in two chronic patients do not take their medication well, we do not integrate this fact as a cause of therapeutic failure, which leads to the request for unnecessary tests and/or to increase treatments and doses with increased risks and side effects for the sick. Lack of adherence, logically, can be involuntary or voluntary; involuntary is due to forgetfulness or confusion, and in voluntary includes fear of adverse reactions, non-perception of clinical improvement, apparent healing before the end of treatment and the patient's feeling that medication is unnecessary or excessive. The factors that influence the adherence deficit are classified according to the relation to the disease, the patient, the health system, the doctor-patient relationship or the treatment itself. And how was the failure of adherence evaluated? For there are direct methods, which would be to measure medication in analysis and in blood, which are expensive and are not suitable for primary or indirect care, which are most used and not objective because they overestimate and often underestimate actual data. In this group we included interviews, questionnaires or control of withdrawal of prescriptions prescribed by professionals, which was the method used by counseling or evaluation of expected results: measurement of tension, sugar, cholesterol, etc. And who should be evaluated for adherence? Ideally it would have to be done to all the sick, in reality this is impossible. So there are a number of patients at greater risk of non-compliance who can be valued by a number of predictors defined in the guides, besides raising professionals' awareness of the importance of always thinking about failure to adhere to treatment in case of failure. And in those predictors, I have a table here, extracted from an accession report from the Autonomous Community of Basquedi, which brings 13 or 14, the most significant: the complexity of treatment, the adverse effects, that the disease does not give symptoms, the sick who do not attend scheduled appointments, cognitive deterioration of patients with depression, etc., and in item number 13 shows the cost of medication. Multidisciplinary collaboration is very important, both in prevention and detection and in the approach to the lack of adherence. It's not a doctor's exclusive competence, it's that they can and should be led, too, by nursing professionals and primary care pharmacists. And how can you fight this problem? There are many interventions described, but a specific strategy that serves in all cases cannot be recommended. Studies are very variable and scientific evidence of their effectiveness is not too high. Interventions best considered by experts are to investigate the intent of the lack of adherence, to assess patients' concerns about their medication, to suggest written records of taking, to simplify doses of medicines, preferably one every day, to use custom dosing pills or systems, and to assess with the patient the benefits of the adverse effects of their medication; to adjust doses in case of side effects or to change the other medication or to change the timing of administration. And also ask him if the cost of medication is a problem and consider a way to reduce it. The effectiveness of the strategy is related to its complexity and to the combination of various interventions, can be called by phone, reminders, involving families, etc. The study presented to the Commission by Mr. Fernández Campa analyzed the data of the first quarter of 2014 by evaluating about 30 million recipes, and could be done by the magnificent system of clinical history and electronic prescription Janus, and electronic drug dispensation applications, the Disel, which developed the Health Council and benefits 100% of the population of Greece. In this study, the collected data were evaluated in the pharmacy offices, which are logically used to confirm whether or not patients took the treatment. The results were basically compared in two significant groups: the group of people who do not have access to them, people with non-contributory pensions, unemployed without benefit, Risga perceivers, etc., against the group of pensioners. You all know that up to 18,000 euros have a maximum monthly approach of just over 8 euros, and in figures between 18,000 and 100,000 euros have a contribution of 18.99, with an average cost of approximately 4 euros per pensioner. In Galicia, I want to remind you that the pensioner doesn't have to make an advance and then ask for a refund of expenses, as soon as he covers the monthly peak, nothing is charged, the difference between other autonomous communities where it is done. The results showed that the two groups had very similar collection figures: 83.5% and 81.1%, respectively, which is a non-significant statistically difference. In the group of patients with close to 40%, 50% or 60% according to income, this figure was around 76%. These figures make it difficult to hold that mantra from opposition groups that repeat continuously that patients do not collect drugs for economic reasons, in fact the most expensive ones, the treatments of cholesterol, diabetes or tension are collected at 95%, and however, those of acute ones – who have a longer expiry date and who are also always in the homes – have, of course, much lower. Percentages, in any case, are much better than those recommended by the World Health Organization. This study meant the first step in assessing the situation and taking measures. That's why we present this non-law proposal with which we want to urge Junta to continue to work on improving therapeutic adherence, conducting new studies on the level of it in Galicia, which focus not only on taking the medicine, but also on following other recommendations on health, exercise, nutrition, etc. We also want it to continue with the programs and to expand actions that favor this better adherence to the program of polymedicated patients, to the patient school, to face-to-face training or through networks of different professional groups, to the market for custom dosing systems, pilliers, etc., and any other intervention that improves the therapeutic adherence of the Greeks and the Greeks. We consider it to be an important health programme, and therefore we call on the groups to support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u224	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u225	According to WHO, one in two chronic patients does not comply with treatment, i.e., they do not take the medication prescribed or not take it as they should. WHO considers the lack of adherence to chronic treatments and its negative consequences, both clinically and economically, to be a priority issue for public health. Patients do not withdraw nearly one in four prescriptions prescribed by the doctor. And if we go to pensioners, who have a coop, they're going to go to one in five of the recipes that are collected in the pharmacy. Physicians can currently check if medicines are being dispensed, but they are not following the guidelines and taking them properly. The drugs that have higher adherence, analyzing those that withdraw from the pharmacy in prescribed relationships, are the drugs that relate to or treat chronic diseases and, in particular, antihypertensives, and the ones that are less adherent to, are the analgesics. That suggests to us how far the influence of the economic side in the follow-up to treatments, because the pain we endure, but then there are themes like tension, that people are aware that it is a serious issue, that they have to deal with, where adherence increases. Adherence, exactly today, is fundamental to the well-being of patients, especially older people and people with chronic diseases, is an important component of their health. In older people, non-adherence increases the probability of therapeutic failure and is responsible for unnecessary complications that involve an increase in health expenditure. The available data suggest that the main determinants of non-adherence in older people are – they are studied and are also logical – the increase of prescribers. At age people end up going to a rheumatologist for rheumatic problems, they have diabetes problems, they have problems of tension, they have various health problems, and this leads them to have to go to several doctors, also to have a polymedication, lots of pills for different things, many to take on different schedules, with different patterns, some are alternate days, some are just on weekends, others are three times a day; a real complication for older people, often with depression paintings or cognitive impairment that makes them very difficult to follow up so complicated. Between a third and a half of the treated elderly do not properly perform the prescription and more than 90% take doses lower than prescribed by the doctor. In people over 65, the lack of adherence to chronic treatments conditions a significant percentage of hospital income. Therefore, knowing the population pyramid of Galicia, it is clear that it is urgent to improve the follow-up of adherence to treatments, not only pharmacologically, of the population at risk. And I say it's not just pharmacological because it's also about the way of life they have, the exercise, the food and the living conditions they have. It is important to make this follow-up in the elderly and chronic patients, even though they usually follow-up. Another thing that attracts attention is when a chronic patient doesn't attend the first, second, third revision, no one calls him to see if he's dead, he's passed on, why he doesn't attend the reviews, neither does that follow-up. Patients, of course, psychiatric treatment, because in many of them the misuse of medication, when leaving the medication, can produce outbreaks often very aggressive and virulent. Or we also often see psychiatric patients who have no follow-up and who are dedicated to begging, who are dragged down the bar street by bar consuming without control. And also in adolescence, because there are many medications that affect the physical and that in particular in adolescence is quite difficult to assume, or because in adolescence we seem immortal, and then as soon as the symptoms are reduced, we leave them. Now, over time, I've introduced an amendment because for me the only solution to really follow up on drug addiction is having a primary care system, a primary care network very close to people, and in our country we have to have in rural primary care services near people, Hado services that go to homes and palliative care services. And the only way to follow up is to go to the patient's house, see the patient how he lives, what living conditions he is, whether he lives alone, accompanied, with whom he lives. There are many, many, many, chronically ill people, many people with psychiatric illnesses who are basically responsible for an older woman. So we have two health problems there and two abandoned health problems: that of the elderly chronic patient, or the elderly patient and that caretaker who is totally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u227	...abandoned from the administration. I'm not going to read the amendment, you have it, I hope it's admitted. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u229	Good afternoon. Since the adoption in 2012 of Decree Law 16/2012, which amends the conditions of the health system, we have claimed that studies are carried out, that it is evaluated as a consequence of all the measures introduced by this legislative measure on the health of the population of Galicia, because essentially these measures include compensation, the transfer of part of the health expenditure, which soon come to the People's Party and the Council to call it savings, which is nothing other than to transfer part, a very substantial part, of that pharmaceutical expenditure to the pockets, directly, of the patients, and what is more serious, because to the pockets of many highly disadvantaged sectors. In fact, more than a year ago, an initiative was adopted in Commission 5a which called for a study by the board to be carried out primarily on the pharmacological adherence of the population of Greece, and mainly on account of economic causes. Well, it's funny that the People's Party has been here for a year after this report was presented here with a demand that was already covered in that report, and the report already says textually that it recommends an integral study of the failure of therapeutic adherence, the various causes, the difficulty of measurement and so on. So it doesn't seem like he's been worried about the People's Party all this time. And then we're also surprised at the Galician Nationalist Block that the report itself makes itself a little cheaty – let me qualify it this way – because you, making a small summary here, came to the conclusion that there seems to be no economic causes in that lack of adherence, that causes are multiple, and they want to divert the point of attention. Indeed, the difficulties of adherence are multiple, and there are issues that have been dragging for a long time and in which it needs to be touched, we're not going to tell you here at the BNG that you don't have to touch. But our concern is that, indeed, not everyone who does not take medication is on economic issues; it seems to me, now that there is a finding not said by opposition groups, but by professionals, by patient associations, by different kinds of associations that show that this is happening, even by the pharmacy's own professionals, that they point out that this is so. So not everyone who doesn't have pharmacological adherence is because he can't pay, but some people who don't have that pharmacological adherence because they can't pay, that's the tic of the question, that's the question BNG once put to him and that then, in the adoption of this initiative, he was at the bottom of the question and that you here again put balloons out here today by putting it into a whole revolution where they want to go over that question. And I'm telling you that it's a little tricky report because it gives some data where, on the one hand, most of them are referred to in the TS1 and TS2 cartels, which are the exempts or pensioners who pay a specific part. And even so there's a whole series of drugs, actually, it's already said here, that in the report they call it an unclearly established posology or demand. We're talking about anti-inflammatory drugs, we're talking about analgesia, which has a year of withdrawal of up to 50% in many cases, of the sixty-second and peak, very high, and which should skip the alarms in an administration that sees there's a high percentage of drugs where there's a non-compliance, i.e., a non-retirement of medication that in many cases exceeds 50%, and you intend to go over this subject as if nothing happened. What did he tell us today? That in the fundamental medication to maintain health, that is, issues of tension, cardiological and other issues, that population if it has a high adherence, yes, of course! It's just that they had to choose people between living or not living. And yet there are not few cases of people who have manifested – and I have to say here in this Parliament – that often they have to choose which medication they take and which they do not, and often they have to choose between buying medication and buying food. And you know that's the situation. That's why the BNG tabled an amendment, too, to this initiative, because the decisions they made are reversible, they made the ideological decision to pass a decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u231	...to introduce a whole series of unfair reparations to the population, and that will be resolved by derogating that decree. That's why we tabled an amendment requesting that the German Parliament urge the Galician Council to address the Central Government in order to repeal the Royal Decree Law 16/2012 to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System. It seems to us that at this point, since you are speaking of economic recovery when it seems that there are no economic problems anymore, it would be a gesture on the part of the People's Party that you have not submitted to the Galician population, to the Greeks and to the Greeks, to a ransom...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u233	...unfair, and it's proven that there are people who don't take medication because they can't pay for it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u235	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. I don't know if they noticed it, but there was something in this House a moment ago. I am afraid it will change the Council, which changes the voice, welcome, Mr Centeno, but what does not change are the health policies of the People's Party, nor the empty initiatives of content that the Popular Parliamentary Group always proposes to us in health. Already in January 2015 you urged us to continue working to improve therapeutic adherence. They're going to let me tell them that it's worth it, that it's worth it to them after they've implanted the trees and mounted the mess they've mounted with the catalogue. And you also urged us to conduct studies that focused neither on collecting nor on taking medication, but on following other recommendations, the follow-up of patients and patients on health issues, such as exercise or diets. I guess what they were looking for a year ago is the same thing they're looking for today, concealing the impact that they've had on adherence to all those measures taken by you. Years of coopers, the withdrawal of funding from the most common and useful drugs for chronic drugs, the depletion of pharmacies, and that's why you prefer it to be sized as and when you take care of citizenship. A proposal, by the way, very much from the People's Party and very much from the strategy presented a few days ago by the Business Council to improve the Board's accounts. Strategy by which they will lower the health budget by making citizenship run – understanding that much in the same line – that it does not go to the doctor, that it calls on the phone or that it is hospitalized in your home. Look, I don't know if that seems serious to you, but do you think it's appropriate to be talking about habits when we have all the emergency services collapsed by the flu? And dying people, gentlemen. Do you not think we should now be debating a contingency plan to solve the collapses that repeat year after year? Look, Mr Centeno, indeed WHO is calling the failure of therapeutic adherence as a serious problem, a problem that complicates the evolution and prognosis of the disease, and which also increases the health expenditure, but I remind you that all health and scientific entities have expressed their concern for adherence after knowing the Royal Decree Law 16/2012 of the PP and after knowing the August Resolution of the same year that the portfolio of services was cut off by funding over 700 drugs, some, some, ladies and gentlemen, very often used by chronic patients. And I insist, all measures taken by you, which now seems to be worrying about adherence. That is why it is unacceptable, Mr President, that the Secretary-General of the Council, on his day, and today, here, in this Chamber, they told us, without a smile, that these measures had no effect on adherence or mortality rates, said the Secretary-General; exactly the opposite that all experts claim, and that it also seems quite logical. Look, sir, I don't know if the Basques don't care about the price of drugs, but I can tell you that the Welsh and the Welsh do. For the Greeks and the Greeks, the price matters, and if not, ladies and gentlemen, you ask in the pharmacies, but above all ask people, ask users and users, and ask doctors and doctors who care for them. Look, as far as healthy lifestyles are concerned, nothing to object to, but what can't be replacing proper health care. If you really want to improve adherence, accept our amendment and leave so much demagogy. They suppress the coopies in the pharmacies, they recover for public funding those essential drugs for the proper care of chronic diseases, they end up with the desisting of the pharmacies, they potentiate the role of the primary care pharmacy, and, please, once again I'm going to make a request: they suddenly remove these defective health products that cause so much rejection and so many problems to chronic patients. I'm referring, once again, to those insulin needles. If you really, sir, are you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u236	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u237	...are concerned about adherence and they want to do something on that line, accept our amendment, it's addition, we can add it to their recommendations, and if they don't, if they don't accept it, we won't support it, because once again we'll try to mess it up. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u239	Thank you, President. It is no doubt positive that official data on the pharmacy or any other subject are collected, however, the pharmacy data, as indicated by the advisor's office, depends on a number of matters that affect more than the number in general. First of all, it should be remembered that for a couple of years PP has been tired of moving to the House that it was not possible to know this data on drug collection in the Greek pharmacies. When we reported that there were people who didn't pick them up because they didn't have enough money, I told them that it wasn't possible to know them; so it's shown that this was absolutely false. Secondly, we have already denounced in Commission 5 on its day that there was – despite our support for this initiative calling for the report – a bias on the data relating to those drugs that were left out of the pharmaceutical portfolio, the benefits. In 2012, we again remembered, and we have been leaving PP out of portfolio 417 drugs and common-use products, plus 17 to Junta de Galicia, and months later, in this case by a resolution published, the Ministry's resolution, the BOE, since then the price of some of these drugs has risen to 200% under the Ministry's coverage in the case of some brands. Of course, these drugs do not count in that report, in that statistic, and therefore there is a bias in the statistics, there is data on necessary products, pharmaceuticals, that do not appear and we do not know how many are withdrawn and how many are not, because obviously they cannot be prescribed. However, over the report itself there is a lack of objectivity, because the report itself provides a positive comment on the application of Royal Decree 16/2012, when the report should be limited to analyzing the data from that withdrawal of drugs, not to make an opinion which should not be contained in a report which was considered to be minimally objective. It should also be remembered that the real impact is not measured in the report. We remember that the pharmacy savings you have announced on many occasions to Junta de Galicia are due to this transfer of public spending to private spending. We've been talking about the 16/2012 theme and these pharmaceutical awards, and the People's Party often puts value that, for example, now people who charge risk don't pay, but people who charge risk are less than 13,000 people throughout Galicia, and yet there's a large part of the population that pays much more now for drugs than before. For example, of the whole population, 2,700,000 Greeks and Greeks, only 123,000 people are exempt from this payment, the rest of us pay and therefore pay more people than before. The people's own defender, Mrs. Becerril, said they're protecting the sick and seriously ill with scarce economic resources, causing, therefore, one... harming their health, putting them at risk. How is it possible that people who only have unemployment unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit have to provide 40% of the drugs, when they didn't have to do so before?; with a subsidy of EUR 426 per month, 40% of drug payments must be made. In addition, Royal Decree 16/2012 called for a rise in average wages, never if you want to talk about it, but now between EUR 18,000 and EUR 100,000 you have to provide 10% more, we have made a 50% contribution to these drugs. Where does that reflect in the report? It does not reflect, and therefore lacks validity to assess the impact of this type of measures, which, of course, are related to therapeutic adherence. The non-law proposition doesn't speak of any of that, or about how some people who continue to maintain that adherence still do so in many cases by remaining money to what they invest in other things in their daily lives; that's not reflected in any official report. What weight does it have on the purchasing power of who has to pay for these treatments? It would be good if we were also told here that these EUR 5 million from Europe will stop, which the Union has announced would be invested in this pharmaceutical accession. Or explain why you keep spending in the hospital pharmacy, even though you assume that you cut in the primary care pharmacy. I also asked them in December why the Central Government has just shielded pharmaceutical spending with an agreement with PharmaIndustria, linking that expenditure to the increase in gross domestic product. Obviously, and in short, what you're doing is not an accession work, but basically a dissuasive work, so that people pick up or take less medication in that sense. And, therefore, we cannot accept an initiative that talks about continuing to work, when what we consider is that the Union is working precisely in the opposite direction, and obviously that's what it's going to stop is in the wake of citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u241	Thank you, President. First of all, Mrs. Martínez, thank you for the tone, indeed, of your exhibition; I share practically all that you have said. It is clear that it is impossible to check the medication that the sick take in their homes, and of course what they have is a clear ignorance of some voices on the subject of analgesics and chronic patients' medications. The analgesic buys a box of 20 or 30 pills, takes 4 for a headache and they're still remaining 26 in the house, which is a fundamental reason that they don't collect anymore, because they're also absolutely economic, and both in Europe and in the United States, and most of the drugs that come out of the financing, are sold in supermarkets, so I don't understand much. And I also wanted to tell Mrs. Martínez that at primary health care centers we attend home visits: nurses, doctors, and even at mine, at least, there's a social worker to check the circumstances of each patient. As far as Mrs Prado is concerned, because the most disadvantaged sectors, Mrs Prado, are the ones that are not paid now, are the paid ones in benefit, are the Risga receivers and are the people who have no income, who previously paid 40% and now do not pay. I want to thank Mrs. Acuña for that warm welcome she gave to this new voicer, and I am very surprised that it seems bad to her to talk about exercising, or talk about phone calls, at the end of the day, the counselor came to say the same thing that she says to WHO, that if you do exercise and diet, it's lowering your health expense, then I think that's what it says to WHO since 2003. And Mrs. Solla wanted to tell you that the drug collection has appeared for years, when I was already working in Yanus, an icon appears that tells you whether the patient has retired or has not removed the medicine. Pensioners pay an average of 4 euros in Galicia, and of course, spending on hospital pharmacy has a lot to do with the increase in new cancer drugs – which are drugs at a very high price – and also, even, with the theme of hepatitis C, which knows that a lot of millions of euros have been invested. Well, we can't accept Mrs Martínez's amendment, because it's not an amendment, it's a government program. I would like to check in years, if at any time Mrs Martínez and her group are running, that degree of compliance with this amendment can be observed. The amendment of the BNG and the amendment of the Socialist Party call for the repeal of the decree, I still say that I do not share the topic of the relationship of the cooper with the failure of adherence, no. With regard to the primary care pharmacy, Mrs. Acuña, you know that primary care pharmacists collaborate with the polymedicate program, and even the general director of Pharmacy is a primary care pharmacist. We urge the Council to continue, to improve and to do new things in relation to adherence, which seems to us to be a very serious health problem. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u242	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made to the Central Government and the European Union in relation to the practice of dumping, or unfair competition, in the transport of goods by road
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u243	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Fajardo has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u244	Good night to all and to all. Given that this is the last intervention of the day, I would not like to finish the session without making a reminder to the eight Airbus who today start a trial for being simply on a strike picket, in which it is a clear attack on the right of strike that the workers have in this country and a new step in the policies of repression of the workers' struggle. Therefore, our greeting and our support for the comrades who see themselves in this situation, hoping that soon the articles from the Criminal Code will be removed that criminalize the workers' struggle. We have brought an initiative that has to do with the demand of the sector, which has been transferred to many groups of this House, because, as you know, 85% of the transport of goods in this country is done by road, and therefore, despite the fact that we have to jump through the improvement of the transport of goods to a much more sustainable model, the reality is that today is a fundamental and strategic sector for the country, of what thousands of families live, and in this case we have to say that thousands of families are being harmed, for several issues that we are trying to address on our initiative and that we hope they will have to accept, because it goes along the line of what is being done in many other countries in the whole of Europe, which is one of the leaders of the drowning situation in the sector. A situation of drowning which first has to do with the sector's tariff framework directly. There is no regulation of the tariff framework, therefore, in many cases they are forced to work under cost, because 8% of the companies in the sector, which are those that have more than three vehicles, and they are the ones that impose the conditions, in many cases make it impossible for the small or autonomous to survive the prices and counts that these large companies mark for the transport of goods by road, which in most cases only serves to cover costs. All of this has to do with a decision by the European Union, supported by the majority groups of this House, to liberalise the sector and allow the liberalisation of international cabotage transport, which we have come to denounce on this initiative, dumping and unfair competition. We were sold that this meant greater competitiveness, greater transport efficiency, but in fact what it meant was poverty, hunger and the situation of difficulty for many companies, and the closure of thousands of companies in recent years in the country as a whole. So that's the first problem, the deregulated tariff framework, which prevents you from having or can guarantee that work is done above the costs of your work. The second question that directly affects Galicia is that as we know in this country we pay the most expensive fuels in the state as a whole, and also the most expensive road infrastructures in the state. AP-9 is one of the most expensive state-set infrastructures for these workers, which is either targeted or taking these costs, or moving through the secondary network, with which it is supposed to increase times and increase insecurity; and the increase of times, in addition, means a fall in the prices that your customers can charge. In that sense, these are the issues we must address. But the most serious is the situation that has taken place since the liberalisation of the sector with regard to cabotage or international operations, which is even able to allow another State of the European Union to carry out international transport with this country – with Galicia – and which at that time can even make local transport, and therefore compete completely disloyally with workers and businesses in Galicia. And the reality is that the lack of control over this allows companies to exist not only from the rest of Europe, but from the rest of the country, which have relocated to other countries that are doing freight transport jobs in this country with suppliers and customers in this country, but with wages and working conditions outside this country. We must therefore act against this reality, and action measures are those which, for example, have been adopted these days, with thirty measures in Belgium or Austria, or even in France, where it is established that, despite the existence of liberalization, and therefore these companies from other countries can operate in the Spanish State and the country, in Galicia, at least have to guarantee minimum wages which are equivalent to the minimum wages that have been detected or which have been raised in the negotiations and labour rights of each state. For example, in this country we see how they are producing in these relocated companies, or on the basis of outside the state, wages for half of what they receive by payroll, let's say by collective agreement, workers in the goods transport sector by road in Galicia, which means a lower cost that makes our companies unable to compete and to see more and more difficulties in accessing the market that they had more easily before. Faced with this, industry professionals are constantly and continuously complaining, for administrations are leaving behind, which do not take measures to prevent this situation, which is indeed serious and which has to do with dumping or unfair competition from the rest of the states of the European Union as a whole. All this is a situation of gravity, which prevents companies from maintaining, and what it does is to increase the stress of workers, and increase the stress of the owners of these small businesses, and to force, for example, that the situation with regard to labour rights, but also about safety and health at work, if you are prepricing even levels that remain in evidence in the Foment data. In the sector where work accidents have been increasing most recently, and therefore the road accidents of these workers, it is precisely in this sector, and precisely has to do with these working conditions that are being forced most road transport workers, which have to be more tied to their working conditions, and even security, in order to be able to compete with these outside companies, which is causing an increase in casualties, an increase in deaths and a true aberration in respect of these jobs. It's so much so that something that once seemed to be eradicated comes back as a reality, that it's that duality of jobs that have to do with transporters forced them to do the loads and the discharges on the exit and arrival docks, something which implies, first, a work that is not the carriers, that must be other workers, and hence the loss of jobs, but also an increase in fatigue and a reduction in rest times, which is causing the situations that arise after the return of driving to be of greater weariness, of greater difficulty and of increasing the possibility of having a sin. That's not all, let's say, inspecting with certainty, and he's working to eradicate those actions that go against most of these workers and workers. So in the last few days we've seen how there's already a situation that we believe is certainly alarming, as it is in many workers who go to their jobs in transport having to ingest products that allow them to endure the day-to-day and the working conditions that are being forced on them to do by these multinational companies, absolutely pirates, which absolutely violate everything, simply by having a margin of benefit. Therefore, we are the measures that we are asking for are absolutely simple, and we call for three initiatives: one is that a proposal should be drawn up in coordination with companies and industry workers to implement measures in the country to counter dumping practices in transport; another question is to demand before the Government of the State and the European Union and the European Union that these measures should also be established at the level of the whole of the state and of the European Union; and finally, there is a proposal for a proposal to coordinate with companies and industry workers to implement measures in the country to counter dumping practices in transport dumping practices; another question is to demand before the Government of the State and the European Union and the European Union that these measures should also be established at the level of the whole of the state and the European Union; and finally, there is a proposal for a coordination of measures in the country to combat dumping hours of rest hours of rest hours of rest, of rest hours of resttime, tachfulfulful that the same wage they have to earn the same wage that they can reap the same wage they collect if they are the workers of a job of a French company, with the minimum of the minimum of a job of a job of a company, with that minimum wage, with that minimum minimum minimum minimum wage wage, including minimum wage, including the minimum wage, including a minimum wage, including the need to have the need to have a room of the room of a room of the room of a room of a room of a room for a room of the need to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room of have a room of a room of a room of a room of re which has a room of a room of a room of have a room of have a room of have a room of a room of a room of a room for a room of a room of a room of a room of a room of a room for a room for a room for a room for a room of a room of a room of a room of a room of a room of a room for a room of have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room to have a room of have a room of have a room of have a room of have a room of have a room of have a room to have a room of So we believe that these are measures that can be done, that must be done and that would contribute to two issues: firstly, to maintain employment in the country in this sector, but also, of course, to improve the safety of our roads and our roads, because we must again denounce that there is a very important increase in the last few years of the sinisterness of this kind of work, due precisely to the measures and conditions in which they are forced to do their work. We therefore hope that on this last occasion the People's Party will have the right to vote in favour of the initiative we have presented from AGE, but that is an initiative of the whole of Galician road transport sector. Nothing else and good night.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u245	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u246	For the European Federation of Transport Workers, social dumping is the main problem of European transport. Companies are inventing new ways of circumventing legislation by enslaving the living and working conditions of drivers, in an effort to reduce tariffs, competing disloyally and destructively. The matter is urgent, because right now, and depending on the origin of the driver and the eradication of the company, there are differences of cost per year and truck up to EUR 60,000 between countries that are supposed to form a single market. The mobility that characterizes the sector has led to the relocation of businesses and the loss of employment and the number of professionals, companies and vehicles that need an immediate response. The Ministry of Employment itself recognises that a very negative impact is being made on the business fabric of transport, basically for small businesses, because of the activity that has been carried out in recent years by large transport companies that are moving to the countries of eastern Europe. These practices cause serious damage to public buildings, because they do not pay for their activities, as well as the destruction of employment, labour slavery and increased risk of traffic accidents. This reduced operating costs enables them to compete with the rest of the companies in advantageous conditions with unfair competition, because they can work at a price that for companies that meet legislation and labor and social obligations are inescapable, because it means working under the costs. It is urgent to adopt measures aimed at preventing certain forms of unfair competition, through irregular recruitment, excess days or lack of rest from being imposed in our country. The Northern Transport and Logistics Hall closed its X edition with the following conclusions: "We are facing the main present and future problem facing the transport sector. A problem that endangers in the medium and long term the same permanence of the business fabric of the transport of goods as we know it. The Ministry of Employment must get wet on this issue, as other governments such as Germany or France have already been abandoned: the harmonization of the working conditions of professional drivers carrying out international road transport." Faced with this serious problem facing the sector, by eliminating the most vulnerable business fabric, such as self-employed and small businesses – in particular the companies that define the German business sector – the measures that end with unfair competition should be taken. With this picture there are drivers who warn of precarious situations in the sector that remember earlier. Some companies hire South American drivers who are paid around 1,000 euros a month for international transport originating in Spain, but they are discounted 300 euros for sleeping in the truck cabin; that is, 300 euros as if the truck cabin was a hotel. There are companies that force their drivers to stay with the truck or otherwise fire us, or make truck registrations in the countries of the east to hire workers from these countries. I mean, they relocate the company, they still have the trucks here, the trucks are from here, but as the company is Polish – or where it looks – the wages go according to where the company is eradicated. In the Spanish State, the Civil Guard or the Autonomic Police, with powers in circulation, are concerned only to inspect the trucks in relation to the R (EC) regulations of the tachograph, but they are not concerned at all about the labor conditions of the drivers, the difference – as Mr Fajardo said – of what happens in France, that they carry a payroll, that they have to prove that their working conditions are legal and comply with the law. Not here, here is important to fine, look at the tachograph; but nobody asks the driver what the conditions he's working on are, that's the big deficit we have. The strong differences between social and fiscal obligations between the countries of the European Union and the lack of regulation favours Spanish companies based in Romania and Bulgaria to carry out cabotage in Spain, but applying the labour and social costs of these countries to their drivers. But it's also a normal practice for Greek drivers to have employment contracts in subsidiary companies from other countries. A struggle that's been going on with transport workers for years, especially international transport. A strike, and I'm also in solidarity with Airbus workers, but here, speaking about transport, I also want to remind Carlos and Serafín, that this Parliament has approved a request that they be granted the pardon, pardon that has not yet been granted. They're still waiting for this so-called Social Government of the People's Party to grant it to them for precisely fighting against this precarious labour in the transport sector. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u248	Good night to all and to all. We are talking today, through this initiative, about a sector such as the transport sector, which has a much more relevant weight in our country and which also plays a strategic role in the distribution of our commodities. We're talking about a sector that in Galicia is about 7,000 public transport companies, of which 3,500 are autonomous with one vehicle; this is also a unique feature of our transport sector, which continues to maintain a very small fabric where most of them really are drivers who have a vehicle. In total, this sector is engulfing around 25,000 professional drivers and mobilises 82% of the goods moving in Galicia, both those exported and those moving in the country itself. This gives us a little bit of an X-ray from a sector that is experiencing the economic crisis, which has actually made it that since 2008 it has shut down about 1,000 companies in our country. But in addition to the economic crisis, the high costs they have in our country, and without security, they are also suffering the consequences of the deregulation or liberalisation that has taken place in the transport sector in the European Union. A policy that for some of them is clearly one of the main problems that must be addressed at the moment and which also brings as a consequence a very serious precariousness of the working conditions of this sector. It has already been mentioned here that there is a problem arising many times from very long working days, from very low wages, from conditions that do not respect the minimums that the sector should have. And this also has serious consequences, because we're talking about a sector that has high levels of accidentability that are also relevant and important. And all this precarious work that is taking place in practice is having consequences which, from our point of view, must be shortened, must be accompanied by the Galician Union, which today, as has been usual, does not attend this debate in the Galician Parliament. But we are told that the transport sector has also moved this situation, without seeing a clear attitude to stand aside from defending the rights of workers and workers of the same, and also the need to articulate a social policy that is a just social policy, where this fall is not allowed to descend from what are the working conditions of the transport industry. We saw, over the past year, how in our country there were problems with these kinds of practices, where even companies as important as Began had a problem with the transport sector itself because of conditions that were insumable and because it was understood that there was a very important retreat, and that fraudulent practices were being introduced which were only making it possible to relocate much of the employment that was being generated in this area. And what we've observed is like a year after this sort of question, the Galician Union is neither expected nor expected. It seems to us that there is a part of the competition that does not depend on the Greek Government itself, but it would also be obvious that in these circumstances it would be good for the Galician Union to have a position, to have an opinion and to pressure the Government that is going to come out so that it really acts in the defence of a sector that – as we say – is not only important for the employment it generates in our country, but also because it has an added effect by the important dependency that has all the mobility of commodities in Galicia. We do not want conditions in our country to be more precarious than they are at present, and it would be important for this initiative to be adopted at least to have a position of the Greek Parliament which is a little in which the Galician Union comes out of the passivity in which it is installed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all of you and to all of you at the last moment of this day, within this Tuesday of the Entrod. Well, we're talking about the transport sector, the road freight sector, which has been constantly suffering in recent times the aggression of the People's Party governments. And I think it's all right – Mrs. Pontón now made you a little reference – to remember what it can mean, what it really means, this sector for Galicia. We're talking about it being made up of 7,000 companies in Galicia, it has more than 20,000 direct jobs, it mobilizes more than 20,000 heavy vehicles, it represents around 5% of Galicia's gross domestic product and it leaves more than 80% of Galicia's production abroad. These are the strengths of the sector and these should also be the strengths of Galicia. And we must also know that in recent years 2,000 companies have been lost in this sector, they have been lost as a result of the wrong policies of the People's Party, much more likely to weaken this sector than to strengthen it. It is also fair to recognize – we have done it once more – that the Greek carriers have always had structural burdens that condemned them to compete in conditions of disadvantage against other drivers, transporters from other places. I would refer only to two: one, which has to do with the peripheral situation of Galicia, and another, which has to do with the delay in the arrival of the infrastructures to our country. The 1990s, of course, meant a substantial change in the lives of these carriers, they meant the arrival of infrastructures, they meant the modernization of their own vehicles as a tool of work, and they also meant work improvements. In short, in some ways they dignified the transporters' profession. The arrival of the crisis, however, was the perfect excuse and I have also made enough threats that were made by action or omission in external – also internal – political decisions that affected and affected the current bad situation of the sector. There are, for example, some of these political decisions which have not already been in favour, but which have also been directly affected by this sector: the known and still insolvent illegal payment of health cents, the increase by the Government of Mr Feijóo of 400% in 2014 of that health cent, the harmful approval of the Organic Law on Land Transport for peas in the sector, the maintenance of a higher cost of fuels in Galicia than in the rest of the autonomous communities, toll costs in the AP-9 absolutely insumable for the sector, the permission of the Administration with the abusive treatment of logistics operators or the indifference of the Government of the People's Party against the decisions of other countries which hinder the competitiveness of the Galician companies. So, we are in a situation, in addition, which has recently been added to that which has already been pervating with the sector over the past few years – there are very clear near the Coruña – it is dumping practices or unfair competition, which are already a negative reality for the transport sector. A new reality that weakens them and thus weakens us as Greeks; that weakens the transport sector and weakens Galicia as a country. The Socialists believe that before this fact the German Government must – it is obliged – act to eradicate these practices that undermine the balance of labor and wages of the carriers. In the end, this proposal aims to dignify the work of transport professionals, both workers and self-employed people, and to banish a practice that is of unfair competition that is so damaging to us in this sector. Also to ensure the survival of a key sector for Galicia, we see the numbers, but add one more fact: it's enough to go around the towns and villages of Galicia to see the deployment that this sector has in the whole population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u252	...and in society as a whole. I will conclude by saying that we clearly assume the three points of this initiative, which coincide with the proposal that we could make, and therefore we will support this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u253	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Goldar Güimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u254	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good evening – this evening – to all, ladies and gentlemen. It is up to me, on behalf of my parliamentary group, to defend the political position of training which I represent in the non-legislative proposal that brings the debate to Mr Fajardo's Group. I thought, allow me the licence, that this position should be clear five months ago, on 8 September, when Mr Sánchez, of the same parliamentary group as you, had presented the same initiative in Commission 2nd of this House. In it we had the opportunity to establish what our vision of the situation you are referring to today in this new old initiative. And as it seems that there was not enough diaphragm left, if it didn't make sense to bring back the debate, except, of course, other more prosaic explanations, I'll try again to explain it. Mr Fajardo – which Mr Sánchez had also pointed out – said at the initiative we are now discussing, that dumping practices in the field of road freight transport would be being produced, moving in his writing a sense of generalization of practices. Similarly, he cites his lordship's adoption in Germany of a measure so that workers found on German soil should pay the minimum wage there. As for the reference to Germany, Mr Fajardo said that there were multiple associations of transporters who publicly denounced this regulation because they considered it restrictive for the activity of transport, in addition to causing major administrative burdens to non-German companies. Moreover, you should know that this same complaint was also referred by these associations to the European Commission itself, initiating this institution on 19 May an infringement proceeding against this Member State in relation to the application of the Minimum Wage Law in the transport sector, which is still under treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the measures proposed by your group – in our view of some lack of rigour and practical basis, that is to say with due respect – directly affect the setting up of the single transport area at European level. In this respect, it is necessary to warn of the difficulties that these measures cause, precisely for the transporters of the peripheral countries, as the complaints made, among others, by the National Committee on Transport by Carretera have been made. Since then, the adoption of provisions or rules restricting the free movement of goods in the European territory, and as a result also in Greek, in addition to constituting measures contrary to Community legislation, are not supported by the transport sector as a whole and would be contradictory to the interests and actions of this important collective. We must also point out that any practices of abuse in the field of cabotage transport cited by Mr Fajardo are subject to road inspection and follow-up by the inspection services under the Directorate-General for Mobility, including the collaboration of the State Security Forces, and specifically the Civil Traffic Guard. Thus, in 2015, 27 sanctioning cases were initiated for companies that carried out illegal cabotage in the transport of goods, or that did not have a Community licence or an international authorisation to carry out this transport. In the same year 40 sanctioning cases were resolved, instructed between the years 14 and 15 for these same infringements. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, from our point of view, the essential thing is to take measures, rather than protectionism, to promote a higher quality of efficiency in this activity, which is an essential piece of training bet. And there's the German Government working closely with the professionals in the sector in the organization and monitoring of this training, with more than EUR 390,000 in 2015, which will continue in 2016. Finally, to say that the impulse to intermodality, the provision of soil for parking vehicles and the conduct of logistics operations contribute to the best positioning of our own transport sector, and, above all, when these actions are adopted in a framework of collaboration between public administrations and stakeholders, as is the case. Thus, in the light of what I have explained to you, Mr. Fajardo, I hope you will make it clear that we are deeply, more respectful, of course, of the object of your initiative, and unfortunately, I feel disappointed, but this parliamentary group will not take it into consideration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u255	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Fajardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u256	Well, spokesperson for the People's Party, don't worry, don't let me down, it's the usual people's party. The one who cheats are those thousands of autonomous carriers in this country who are demanding that action be taken against this situation that you minimize, and that they also say they are acting against it. I allow myself to disagree on two issues: it's not a minor situation, it's a reality from day to day that implies that companies have a lot of difficulty to survive. You say you act with 40 sanctioning files in two years, that is, in the state as a whole, you sanction a transport every 20 days in the state as a whole. That means it doesn't work. But I'm actually going to match something with you, that's that we challenge the European Union model. Precisely this European Union model is what allows the employer of the sector – and when I say employers I do not mean the small entrepreneur who has one, two or three vehicles, but those who are 8% of the sector who group and decide prices and impose these types of models – is the one who has put pressure on the European Union to apply a model that is to go against the small self-employed and small entrepreneurs in the sector. And when you talk about Germany, man, I'd like you at least to know what the groups of the sector said, because what they said was not that they didn't agree with the rule that applies to Germany, but that this rule doesn't apply in a coordinated manner across Europe, and that it can therefore be ensured in the whole of Europe that there is a minimum wage which implies equal pay and therefore equal access to contracts with companies that then distribute merchandise. So, I, in spite of your grandloquent tone, have to disagree with your claims, and it is clear that the People's Party does not defend the same model as the AGE defends. AGE defends a model that goes for people, for workers and small businesses. You, once again, defend that European Union which is designed only for oligopolies, for large industries, also for transport, and which is able to implement liberalisation measures so that large industries and large transport companies do what they want; but instead, it restricts workers, restricts small businesses and even now restricts internal mobility, simply because Europe is designed for the movement of capital and not for the movement and defence of workers and workers in the whole of Europe. So I deeply regret that you are in that position, but it is clear that you are what you are and stand for who you are defending, that majority minority as far as big companies are concerned, and leaving the autonomous and small companies in this country openly deprotected, asking for this situation to be clarified, and, of course, they have not been received by the leaders of the Board who have to attend to them. You will explain to me how it is possible that in all these months, we have been presenting this initiative to the Commission for eight months, and you haven't even sat with this sector to discuss this situation. Of course, it's clear that you're worried about other things and not about the situation of most of the self-employed and road transport workers in this country. Nothing else, I'm sorry that you, once again, stand on the side of the mighty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-09-DSPG140.u257	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. We'll stop the meeting until tomorrow at 10 a.m.
