ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u1	Good morning. Go take your seats, please. Good morning to all of you. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mr Francisco Jorquera Caselas has justified the non-attendance to this plenary. And, moreover, we come into the agenda, with the first point, which corresponds to the legislative texts, and we start with the entire debate of the draft law, so as to amend Law 4/2007, of 20 April, of coordination of local police. Full discussion of the draft law amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u2	This bill has been amended to the full extent of the return, in particular the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group and an amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Glaga Alternative from the Left. Mr. Alfonso Rueda Valenzuela has the floor for the introduction of the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u3	Good morning, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased today to present the draft amendment to Law 4/2007, coordination of the local police in Galicia. First of all, I would like to thank the agreement of the majority of Members of this House on the occasion of this legal reform. It is true that there are two amendments to return, but it is also true that 85% of Members and Members of this House have shown themselves in favour of this legal reform, which I think is a good idea of its need. So the first one I also want to highlight is the dialogueal character that has been observed by the Galician Union since the very first moment of the drafting of this bill. A technical working group was set up within the Local Police Coordination Commission; four police unions participated; the Local Police Chiefs and Commands Association participated; four municipalities also participated in different Greek political signs. This working group held several meetings, long in addition, in which they were moving forward in a text that, in addition, union representatives, as progress and consensus were made, circulated among their affiliates to receive suggestions. So the result of this work is a legal modification project that has two main features. First, it is necessary, it was necessary; and second, it is necessarily also limited, since it is included, and only that, which was the object of express request by the affected, that is, the local police professionals themselves and the municipalities. The text that is being discussed today therefore has a first primary objective, which is to solve a serious problem arising from the inadequacy of the law adopted in 2007, the coordination of local police, the criteria for equal treatment in employment that had marked a European Union directive as early as 2000. In November 2014, a year and a half ago, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a judgment in which it considered discriminatory an age limit establishing the local police coordination law in Asturias, set at 30 years, the maximum limit for access to the bodies of the local Asturias Police. The Greek law, which was of the same year as the Asturian law of 2007, also imposed – well it is true that a little higher, 36 years – a similar limit to participate in the oppositions. And, therefore, consistent with this statement made by the European Court of Justice, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia also ruled in 2014 against the bases of the provision of squares of a Greek municipality, the Baiona Council – there were many more with this limit, according to the law – and declared null and void those bases for imposing that age limit. There was also another transcendental problem that was limiting the call for squares and that judicial control was also in the law of 2007, and the High Court of Justice established that it was not legal to exempt the requirement of titration from those aspirants who passed a specific course at the Galician Academy of Public Safety, that is, the so-called dispensation of degree. This was also in the law of 2007, and this was also declared legal, and it was therefore necessary to reform it through the reform of the law. The result has already been said to have been a paralyse since the year 2014 of the convening of squares for local police bodies. The municipalities were in a difficult situation of exit and, in any case, of legal insecurity. If they called according to the law of 2007, their bases could be traced, and if they didn't call according to the law of the year 2007, too; until the law was changed, their bases could be traced. Therefore, this change of law was essential, which was as much as unblocking this situation and adapting our law to judicial pronouncements. So I say that the fundamental objective of today's law is to allow the Greek Councils to cover the necessary squares to maintain their local police services with the appropriate templates and, above all, with the necessary legal certainty in the calls they decide to make. But also, by taking advantage of this change and collecting the suggestions – I insist – of those directly affected, in this law it is taken advantage of to introduce other changes, other novelties that have been requested. For example, when it comes to internal advocacy calls – they were also stuck in many municipalities – and therefore what we do is to simplify the mechanism, and now, when it comes to the possibility of having to cover a square by internal promotion, the councils have no other remedy than to capture their new internal advocacy staff between two groups: on the one hand, the local police personnel of that municipality itself, who have to be in the category immediately below and with three years of age, or otherwise, as an alternative, may come to the local police of other municipalities but have to be in the category of the plaza they want to cover. Therefore, this system caused many difficulties in covering the squares, in practice necessary squares, and therefore we opened up the possibility of personal capture through the way of internal promotion in two other groups: on the one hand, the staff of the same municipality but of two lower categories, not only one, and on the other hand, the staff of other municipalities of an immediately lower category, well it is true that it is as a subsidiary alternative; first, it goes to the traditional system, but, if it was not possible – and in many cases it was not being possible – to open the two pathways. Also, to facilitate the coverage of squares, we introduced changes in the regulation of permutations between agents who want an exchange being different municipalities. So the requirement that there was until now that it would prevent changes if the agents concerned were less than five years old to move on to the second activity situation because of age. He had no reason to be. We have all come to this conclusion, to introduce this requirement, and therefore it has been considered necessary to maintain this veto, and it is no longer necessary to have that limit of five years before the retirement age. We also introduced flexibility in the first activity. Until now, the municipalities have been allowed to extend the passage annually to the second activity, but a favourable medical report is required annually issued by a medical tribunal for this purpose. This is to no one escape that it was a far-sighted requirement that put many impediments in practice, bureaucratic impediments; many times that simply the professionals decided not to opt for this system, it was a more annual renewal process. It is now replaced by the need to set up ad hoc ad hoc medical tribunal by a favourable medical report, which may be issued by the head doctor. And finally, the criteria for forcing agents into forced retirement are also used. In 2007 all permanent disability was excluded from the second activity and was therefore referred – there was no other remedy – to compulsory retirement. In this bill, this obligation is satisfied and it is established that retirement will be compulsory only in the case of absolute permanent disabilities. We believe that another case of permanent disabilities can prevent the police and the local police from performing specific police duties, at least not doing all the tasks, but rather more administrative, more auxiliary, than forced retirement. So these changes have a range that we believe is very important for the day-to-day operation of the police. We solve urgent problems and, above all, situations and problems that required a solution by the municipalities and by the professionals, and therefore we make these bodies more flexible and effective to the thousands of professionals who make up these bodies at the local police in Galicia. I would also like, to complete the explanation of this law, to refer to three other amendments which are more accessory but which correspond to the necessary adaptation that we had to make, especially by taking advantage of the amendment, since the law of 2007, apart from those declared illegal precepts, had need to change after ten years of its entry into force and after other laws had come into force that required this amendment. In these years, an organic law of the disciplinary regime of National Police has been passed, with provision for application to local police, and therefore the disciplinary regime provided for in the law of 2007 for local police in Galicia has to be adapted to this national framework adopted subsequently in this organic law. Also the quarterly meetings of the Local Police Coordination Commission had no reason to be, with which they were of a semi-annual nature, was sufficient, and therefore this amendment was made. And we must also not forget – very important – that it was approved in Galicia, in the State first, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, then in Galicia in its development the Public Employment Act of Galicia, and therefore needed to make necessary adaptations also in local police bodies, setting out minimum contents that should be published on the basis of calls to promote equal treatment of all competitors, preventing, as it does in the courts of selective processes in Galicia, participating in local police selection courts people who in the previous five years had to perform tasks of preparing applicants or of collaboration with academies. I'm saying, in general, small changes that come from the Public Employment Act and that it was necessary to transpose into the local police bodies as well. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have developed a normative amendment – I say – with the consensus and momentum of all those involved, and which therefore responds to their main demands: of legal security, of elimination of discrimination, which the courts of justice have declared arbitrary, with greater rigour in the procedures of free access, with greater flexibility in the process of provision of squares for internal promotion, with greater possibilities of mobility and with more ease for the active stay of those staff who wish to do so. The text – I insist – was drafted by a working group, by representatives of all the groups present in the Local Police Coordination and Referenda Commission – I believe this is also important to make it clear – by the unanimity of this Local Police Coordination Commission, once the working group has given it the final drafting. I sincerely believe that this change that we are now presenting is consistent with the impulse that has been giving the Galician Union in recent years to the local police corps. Nothing else entered this government, in 2009, we were transferred to the demand to homogenize the image of local police bodies throughout the country. We believe it was very important that they were recognized as one body throughout Galicia, regardless of their membership in different municipalities. And the decree of uniformity was passed, which made the models of wardrobes, badges, meats and labeling vehicles. It's published. And we've also been asked to improve our training. We passed from 86 courses, with 4,172 squares, in 2009, to almost 200, with 5,500 squares, last year 2015. We also approve common protocols of action, which are ending their development, will be as late as the beginning of the next semester. It must also be said that all training courses are being developed on the basis of requests that local police professionals themselves make to us on a web platform, a web survey, which is designed for that. And we're placing particular emphasis on local police's action in the fight against gender-based violence. We want to involve them directly in the early detection of gender-based violence, and therefore, from there, that explains to a large extent the impulse to the constitution of local tables of gender-based violence, in which, in all cases, when there is a local police force, they have a very important participation. We were also asked for more means for local police bodies, and we must say that we made an important effort in this, and this last year 55 cars and 26 motorcycles were handed over to the local police bodies in Galicia, subsidized to 100 percent by the Galician Union. And we believe that, especially for the small municipalities, it is a very important support for the development of the work of their police. We have also provided the municipalities around a thousand Tetra terminals, which is as much as saying that we can incorporate Galician emergency digital network, improving in all cases – I think to a large extent – the quality of communications that up to now had the local Galician police. And so, with all this, we've contributed to better equipped, better organized, better functioning local police bodies. I think something will have to do with Galicia being the fourth most secure autonomous community in the whole state of Spain. I think they have a lot to do with the professionalism, the preparation and equipment of the local police bodies. I say: how the local police and police in Galicia are the ones who know their needs best, who told us what needed to be modified in this law, who worked, and I take advantage of this attendance to thank them all those meetings, all that time they devoted, not only to the political representatives of these municipalities, not only to the Fegamp, but especially to the local police, to the police unions and professionals who did these jobs. Your opinion is what we bring to this House today, such as the Bill of Amendment of the Law of the Year 2007. And therefore, just as we have the consensus of these professionals, I hope that we will have the consensus of this House to improve, as I say, legal security, flexibility, mobility and, ultimately, the security of all the Greeks through the thousands of professionals who work as local police around Galicia every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u4	Thank you, Vice President. Round of defense of amendments to the whole. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This bill only updates the existing legislation, aspects of Law 4/2007, of 20 April, of coordination of local police. It is a further example of how the Government of Feijóo leaves the transfer of statutory competences to die by inannition, in this case the competences of citizen security. In this context of annihilation, the Government of the Union is bound to follow, with reforms in the aspects affected by state legislation and by the Supreme Court's judgement on the limitation of age for access to the local police, which was in 36 years. Other issues that need updates and adjustments, even substantial advances, should also appear at a time of crisis that requires them. Even so, this bill aims to be electoralist, not responding to the needs of the local police working environment and the provision of services in the municipalities, which are the administrations closest to citizenship. Nowhere does a shock plan arrive to change the current situation of the local police staff in Galicia, which is 40% lower than that of the United States and the European Union: vacancies, surpluses, municipalities that resort to municipal monitors to perform local police functions, templates with less than 3 officers, unmet night services, lack of personnel to perform each service among the staff. The big deficit in Galicia doesn't understand cities, towns and small towns. The crisis has aggravated the deficiencies of the police units in the 129 Greek municipalities that currently have municipal agents, to the point of having more than 10% unmet squares. It's an average of 1.8 vacancies per 1,000 inhabitants. If we comply with the Local Police Coordination Act of 2007, which we are reforming, of the 2,500 places that are now, we should reach more than 4,200 agents. In conclusion, 1 out of every 5 municipalities violates the law of the Union, which is still absent, and appears just before the elections to Parliament, to make small reforms. Not to mention the municipalities, where there's no one waiting for the local police force. There is a very critical situation in 10 municipalities, where there is only one police officer, who is responsible for the security of the citizen throughout his county, without the possibility of taking turns or sharing vacations or reconciling his own family life. We're facing an economic problem, because many municipalities can't support the local police force, and make it impossible to cover the casualties, retirement vacancies and transfers themselves. Where's the government of Feijóo to solve these bees? It's not even expected. But in addition, the central government decided to freeze the public administration's staffing, prohibiting the filling of vacant squares, except health personnel and teaching staff, where a 10% replacement rate was not allowed. He then agreed to and accepted an allegation from the police organizations that the state's security forces and bodies would also be included among the exceptions. Some small or medium-sized council didn't even cover that 10% allowed for lack of resources, or because 10% of 1, 2, 3 and even 10 squares can't afford to convene a vacant square. They legislate to great, and then come the consequences, indescriptible, because precisely in these municipalities is where the citizen's worst security coverage is, after years of crisis, and then what happens next. At the end of 2014, the Council of Ministers agreed to increase from 10% to 100% the rate of replacement of troops in local police bodies for the municipalities that had met their objectives of budgetary stability and public debt. We have tabled a complete amendment to this project, requesting its return to the Government. This change is minimalist, in addition to being a clear example of legislate, without responding to real problems. With total obvious evidence, normative advances related to the protection of maternity. At least it would be desirable to enable the Government to incorporate into the regulatory development of the draft law protection rules for the situation of pregnancy, childbirth or puerpery, especially in the tests of access to local police squares. This does appear to be collected in the regulation of the oppositions of the National Police, where you can look at the model and even improve. If the aspirants cannot perform the physical tests for pregnancy or childbirth, they will do all the rest, conditioning their entry to the body in the overcoming of those who, according to their overall qualification in the summons in relation to the other aspirants, correspond to them. The person concerned could perform the specified physical tests at the time of the next call, and, if on that date she could not die from another properly accredited pregnancy or delivery, she could perform them at the same time as an immediate second call. Incorporation could be admitted to or admitted to that summons in which it has passed physical evidence. We cannot fail to demand an article dedicated specifically to the protection of trade union action and collective bargaining in the local police force, according to the basic Statute of the employee and the public employee, because the local police is a personal official, and we refer ourselves to article 15 of the individual rights exercised collectively, whether it is union freedom and collective bargaining and participation in the determination of working conditions. In general, we find ourselves on this subject in the face of a chronic ejaculation in the normative changes promoted by the People's Party, which are undermining or obviating the regulation that must protect the right to collective bargaining and union representation, which we understand is fundamental to defending the rights of workers and workers. Another section of great weight affects the fact that the change overlooks the need for the municipalities to collaborate to provide the local police services grouped. It does not seem realistic to rule out legislative progress, when the most recent rules cover ways of collaboration that have been opened from the amendment of the Law of Local Regime bases, which has broadened the possibility, in accordance with the additional provision of the Organic Law of Forces and Security Bodies, which was regulated by Order 2944/2010 of 10 November, so that the conditions for the association of municipalities are determined, in order to provide local police services. We also believe that the articulate should define both the requirements and the procedure for intermunicipal collaboration, but as the Government of Beijóo has marked itself as objective to manage less than it corresponds to the Statute, so we get the hair. You're not going to think it's impossible, look at Catalonia, Basque Country, or even Madrid, which has already established a broad regulation in 1991 to ensure the unity of local police services within the framework of their competences. Two or more neighbouring municipalities, belonging to the same autonomous community, which do not have sufficient resources separately for the provision of local police services, can be associated with the execution of functions assigned to local police, in accordance with the additional fifth provision of Organic Law 2/1986 of 13 March, of forces and security bodies. Currently, the so-called inter-municipal collaboration agreement launched by the Ministry of the Interior, endorsed and disseminated to the municipalities by the Union and the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, allows collaborations between local police, but is limited to predictable events, such as the celebration of employers' parties. In the face of this ban, even representatives such as Axempol, the Association of Chiefs and Commands of the Local Police of Galicia, claim to go further, and claim that this collaboration, which is currently stagnated, since the State commission which was created to drive it is paralysed, if allowed in alleged emergencies, in severe traffic accidents, security or traffic controls, which require special instrumentalization or personal qualification, or in administrative inspections requiring special qualification... Even police commanders expected that the proposal that was processed by the Directorate General for Emergency and Internal Affairs would be collected in the reform of this law. Why not combine the local police public service between several municipalities? The Government of Feijóo can't do anything, because it hasn't claimed the competences corresponding to the Central Government in the years of the presidency of the Union. In addition, within this amendment, of the Local Police Coordination Act, we need to add the amendment of articles which do not appear to be amended, and we believe that it is very important, within the context of Article 9 of the Law of 2007, uniformity, because all members of the Local Police must have PPEs which are relevant to the prevention of occupational risks, in particular anti-ball vests. We also understand that it is very important that Article 11 should be modified, which is what is meant by technical means, which are elements, devices and systems of police bodies that use to comply with their obligations, because we understand that, in order to ensure their continuing and practical formation, the councils should jointly have a shooting gallery, because unfortunately, the reality is that there are police officers who have no weapon, when it is mandatory. Justifying to have a weapon means having a gunman, a shooting gallery and a whole logistics that can't be allowed. And this is a great ejacist in many municipalities, not only where there's only one local cop, but where there's even a significant number of them. We also understand very important that the oral and written knowledge of our language should be expounded, as determined by the legislation itself. We also understand very important – something we have already talked about – access to local police tests and examinations on the topic of pregnant women. This is in relation to the differentiation of the various groups that make up this body, which, in the case of pregnancy of local police officers or police officers of the municipalities which have not constituted the local police force, will apply to them the provisions of Law 31/95 of 8 November on the prevention of occupational risks in matters relating to the protection of maternity. This law collects the assessment of the risks of pregnant workers or recent delivery to agents, procedures or working conditions that may negatively influence the health of workers themselves or the fetus, in any activity likely to present a specific risk, as there is still a great risk in their own adaptation to work. So we understand that there are certain kinds of jobs, such as night work and shift work, which can be dangerous. And even the fact that you can get away from work with the right to pay for prenatal examinations and your own techniques, even if there isn't a proper job to your condition, to this state, a temporary discharge or suspension. We also believe that Article 15 should be amended with regard to the establishment of the working hours, rests and other working conditions, which will be the subject of negotiations with trade union representatives in accordance with the terms laid down by the legislation in force, since in the amendment itself there is nothing of the union's own work. We also understand that it is very important – and we stress – the fact that all the local police officers in Galicia must be trained in gender equality and in prevention and fight against it, because we understand that many courses are missing. In addition, in all local police bodies in Galicia there will be a group of agents with a positive assessment of gender-specific training and awareness-raising and gender-based violence that will meet the demands generated in relation to the prevention and protection of victims, ensuring the service during the 24 hours of the 365 days of the year. In order to ensure the provision of these services, the councils may proceed to sign a partnership agreement, so that they can provide a joint service which guarantees the best protection for victims. This will appear reflected in Law No. 11/2007 of 27 July 2007 in the Welsh Law for the Prevention and Comprehensive Treatment of Gender Violence, in which it spoke of the prevention of gender-based violence, which were measures to raise awareness of gender-based violence, and what was the very design of campaign development and dissemination. We understand that the Galician Union itself would have to make the necessary arrangements with other public administrations to ensure the dissemination of awareness campaigns in the centres dependent on local administration, the administrations of justice and between the state and local police security forces and bodies. We also believe that a review of sanctions should be carried out so that, within the date of entry into force of this law – of its own – the application itself is in fact more favourable for the person to function sanctioned. Resolutions will be reviewed on their own, even if they are firm, whose compliance does not begin or end on the date ahead. Revision of resolutions imposing a separation penalty on the service will not be possible. We also understand that we must review certain types of shortcomings that appear to be serious or very serious, such as even the display of weapons in cases where they do not justify it, or how they are used in service or out of it, violating the rules governing their employment. Or the fact of the misalignment of the weapon itself, which we understand is too serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u7	Good morning to all and to all. The Law Reform Bill 4/2007, of 20 April, of coordination of local police, is late; we understand that it is late. And it's late, too, because if you miss an opportunity to have done it long before, opening up that process of consultation, participation and dialogue... AGE does not coincide with your evaluation of what was done in response to suggestions, because we have found that, in that sense, the process of consultation was not as wide and as rich as it should be, counting on the participation of all the social agents involved in this body, in this public service of proximity, essential for the citizenship of Greece. We are also at the end of a legislation that has been characterized by the cutting of rights, the prolonged economic cuts, the impoverishment of society and the degradation of public services. And from that approach, it's how we understand that this reform of the law is necessary, yes, but it's late, in an electoral way and in an epidermal way. In less than ten years there have already been aspects that since the beginning of 2007, they already said he was born in an audible manner, because there were judgments that were already speaking against the legal dispensation, the dispensation of degrees. And, as you said, other more recent judgments, in 2014, prevented them from setting an age limit, and logically they affect the need for that reform. We understand that the procedure and the depth of it are not the most appropriate. The change in the right-wing government does not affect aspects that need to be dealt with decisively in order to advance the professionalization of local police and to avoid the sectarian, partisan and customer use of this security body. We know perfectly well what happens sometimes to the local police in certain municipalities. And you talked, besides, when you were talking about participation, about four municipalities. We know it's 129 – if I'm not mistaken – the municipalities that have local police. Therefore, 4 municipalities of 129 do not seem, of course, to be an extensive form of participation. Of the 96 articles contained in Law 4/2007, this proposal reaches only one quarter of the total articles of the law: those relating to the regime and functioning of the Coordination Commission, the scales and categories, income, promotion and mobility, the retirement age, the second activity, and above all the disciplinary regime and the requirements for access to the body of municipal monitors and assistants. The aspects which were sanctioned referred to the approval of the title granted to the Galician Academy of Public Safety shall be deleted and a single additional provision shall be added with the equivalence of qualifications based on the Public Employment Act. But it can't be – as we say – that it remains in a superficial epidermal state. The current circumstances report a terrible lack of human and material resources in the local police staff throughout Galicia, which could be lower, according to some data, by 40% with respect to the very numbers that were marked by the law through the decrees that developed it. This already speaks of a lack or some ineffectiveness in controlling and providing the necessary mechanisms so that the municipalities can comply with the law. In that sense, it must be said that it is the responsibility of the Union, which must ensure that its powers are exercised scrupulously in respect of municipal autonomy in the field of coordination and training of local police. That's why you, the Galician Union, have the political responsibility to establish the measures and tools that allow you to set a uniformity, homogeneous policies, common bases in the legal regime and the local police body statute: to homogenize organizational criteria and the operating regime; to uniformity in the common procedures of selection, promotion and mobility; to improve professionalism; and to avoid past, current vices and those that can be repeated if you don't act according to what needs to be done. We understand that reform must provide the legal mechanisms that prevent the caciquil use of local police. We can distinguish in this amendment of the law two parts: on the one hand, the eaves that are detected in the absences, due to absences, and the eves that are detected in which it incorporates the modification itself. As for evas, we can list some of them, for example, there is a need to establish an effective mechanism for monitoring and observing the strict compliance with the terms set out in the law to give the function of coordination and unification. And this goes precisely to one of the eves of what it represents, because the Coordinating Committee, which in the current text of the law has four meetings, has two. I mean, it's like making it clear that it's not done considering the current reality of the local police. That Coordinating Commission through four meetings was not able to coordinate, and you want it to be done through two. So we are very afraid that the only thing that this Coordinating Commission does is that it will be a body that will meet twice, but without the firm decision to enforce what is stated in the law. And we're very afraid they'll work on that line, because, from four to two, of course, it gets worse. The need to take into account the plurality existing in local police bodies is a demand for local police unions, which say that representativeness must be in agreement with it, that is, to reality, and that it allows real participation, that allows dialogue, so that decisions that benefit the local police body best, and therefore the local police public service, and therefore the Greek citizenship. The current Coordinating Commission does not seem to respond to that plural reality. And the reality itself is seen in the numbers that are indicated. The context of budget cuts has seriously affected the operational capacity of the municipalities, and the small municipalities and rural municipalities have the most difficult to maintain a local police with dignified conditions that local police workers and workers deserve. The administrative mechanisms must therefore be established so that certain municipalities in the same environment can ensure the provision of the public service properly. This must be settled. We can't afford to pass the occasion of regulating this aspect, because we will avoid the endogenous loopholes that only provide the service according to certain power quotas. Because the local police is also seen as a form of power, power quotas, and that's what the law has to prevent, and put all possible remedies to have a public service according to the values of democracy, the values of ethics, and to prevent the cacical use of this body. The professionalization of services and the quality of public service cannot be subject to the wishes of anyone, regardless of the sign. Citizenship, wherever it is, lives where it lives, deserves the same quality public service with regard to this body. We have to mention the wage differentiation, reported by the local police itself, that exists between municipalities for performing the same function, and at best separated by a series of kilometers nothing more. This logically leads to the fact that, in some cases, this wage differentiation can reach an average of EUR 800 per month, being identical to antiquity, services and functions. So that makes there a logical desire to move from one municipality to another, depending precisely on that wage difference. I mean, we think it's necessary to act there to homogenize what that function is, and also to take into account the requirements of service and function antiquity. In Decree 243/2008 of 16 October 2007 and Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 was established in its exhibition part – and something has already been said by the Joint Group – that it is advisable to aspire to 1.8 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants. It is clear that this is shocking to Article 30.1 of Law 4/2007, which states that the minimum number must be 2 police officers and 1 officer. This, of course, contrasts with the legislation at other points in the Spanish State, for example, the bat, where it is established that the number will be 6 police, 1 cable and a sergeant; or with the recent draft law presented in Andalusia, which indicates a minimum of 5 members in Article 12.1, or in the localities of more than 5,000 inhabitants. In Galicia, there are situations that, in addition, violate that safety precept that you so much want, giving anomalous situations in municipalities with only 1 police or 2; in municipalities of 10,000 people with 10 police; and in large cities – we know – that they all have staffing deficits, all of them. The ideal must be a even number; this is a complaint above all to avoid the danger of a person's round, it's obvious. It is therefore necessary to regulate patrol two, and thus to avoid risk situations for the local police in cases where the individual street tour is permitted. None of the 129 municipalities with local police meet the ratios. It is clear to regulate horizontal mobility between localities and vertical within the locality in professional promotion, avoiding the endogenous "sound course" so that the constitutional principles of merit, capacity, equality and publicity are logical and not anomaly, as well as a process that we understand should be centralized and that it should be the best indication that we move forward in the professionalization of this public service. Finally, another of the demands is that for a better development of the legislation it is necessary to lay down organic regulations for the operation of the local police public service. And another idea that we want to report is that we have already commented that we do not understand how they intend to improve coordination by reducing the number of regular meetings from four to two; we do not understand it, because it is essential to work hard to make it an effective and efficient body of control, supervision and coordination. And another aspect that we understand should not be in an advanced democracy – so at least we understand it from AGE – is that we deny the fundamental right to strike; we do not understand it. This exercise is considered to be a very serious lack. In a democracy every worker and every worker has the right to strike, he must have the right to strike. Therefore, all of these exposed reasons speak of the fact that if there is a need for changes in the norm, that it comes late and does not affect enough dialogue and participation with all the social agents involved; it comes, in addition, in an epidermal way, focusing only on aspects that have been sanctioned, especially through opposing judgments, but it does not attack what it really needs to do, which are these principles that nowadays make the local police have a minimal body, an ineffective body sometimes to perform its function and that it cannot provide public service with guarantees. Therefore, Alternative Left-Galga presents the return of this bill. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Groups not capable of amending. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-President of the Union. I also want to welcome all these girls and boys who accompany us from the guest gallery. I believe that we can affirm with some roundabout that, despite its shortcomings, the adoption on its day of Law 4/2007, of coordination of local police in Galicia, I have made significant progress in different areas, especially if we are aware that through this law two different issues or two concepts were to be married: on the one hand, the need for a certain coordination and homogenization, taking into account the division or competency differentiation that exists between the Union and the Councils, and maintaining due regard to municipal autonomy, which, as all of you know, is a constitutionally collected principle. However, in fact, after almost nine years since the entry into force of that law, we can say that I have made significant progress. In some respects it has contributed to homogenizing the different bodies of local police, in aspects such as selective processes or the training received by the different members of the different bodies of local police, and we could even say that it has also contributed, along with the creation of the Galician Academy of Security, to significantly increase the training of members and members of the different local police bodies. However, almost nine years after the entry into force of Law 4/2007, we have to say that numerous oysters continue to be highlighted, which have already been mentioned in previous interventions to defend restitution amendments, derived in many cases, precisely from that situation, from their municipal dependence. We can't forget that we regulate here, we legislate, but ultimately those who have to apply that regulation and that legislation to local police, in this case, are the different municipalities. And indeed, there is still, there are, there are, very different wage levels between the different municipalities. There is, above all, a very big problem arising from the staffing of local police bodies, municipalities, which are absolutely infred, and therefore in most cases there is a lack of adequate staff skills to the needs of service, to the skills they have entrusted. And this, from our point of view, raises the following question, which is that there are very important fundamental problems that will not be solved through the Local Police Coordination Act, even if we have changed it in a radical way. Because what makes it obvious is that here is a problem that has to do with the funding of the municipalities. We have a system of municipal funding that depends on the state, which also mistreats the Greek municipalities in a substantial way, because they receive around 30% less per capita than the average of the state councils, and which in many cases prevents the fulfilment of their powers or the financing of their powers. And I'm going to set an example. I'm from a county of over 11,000 inhabitants. We have five local cops. According to the ratios established in the decree, in fact, of 1.8 per 1,000 inhabitants, we should have about 19; 18 or 19 local police. Knowing how I know the budgets of my county, it's absolutely impossible to fund that staff box for a council of these characteristics. So we should come up with that, too, and solve that question. It also points out that we have a rather picturesque police model in this country, where there is a overlap of different police bodies – local police, Autonomic Police, National Police and Civil Guard – that we should also solve one day and what I'm going to talk about later. And in that context it is in what comes here to this full draft law, which we could, in all respects, qualify, Mr. Rueda, as another project of the Rueda factory, which has us used to try to show a legislative hyperactivism but which on many occasions refers to changes or to the establishment of quite irrelevant regulations from the point of view of its impact on the improvement of the quality of life of citizenship. It is true – said the vice-president in his intervention – that this amendment of Law 4/2007 essentially obeys issues that are given by other circumstances, due to issues of adequacy to the Basic Statute of the Public Employee and to the Public Employment Act of Galicia in different aspects related to labour rights, access rights, etc., to local police or to issues that have to do with establishing or not establishing an age limit to access local police bodies, precisely derived from this judgement of the European High Court of Justice, which is also being used, as could not be otherwise, by the Greek courts also to cancel calls for different councils. We therefore believe that it is necessary to make that adjustment or amendment to the Greek Law in order to adapt it to that context. We are therefore – from our point of view, the Galician Nationalist Block – in the face of a partial change, and we could even say that, from the point of view of its consequences for citizenship – I insist – insubstantial, since it does not solve the fundamental problems, which, I insist, in many cases could not be solved through this law. So I want to say that the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, of course, does not oppose the processing of this bill because, indeed, there are reasons, which are imposed by other legislative frameworks, which force us to conform to the law, and above all because, given that we are practically in the final stage of this legislation, it would be impossible, if the return is produced, to address a more in-depth change that respects the need to address these changes as well as urgently. Having said this, I want to take advantage of this debate because, as I said, I believe that we must give the debates with a degree of depth and rigour. Here we've talked about many aspects and weaknesses that local police have in our country, and I think we should look for other ways to solve. There is a question that I believe is also indisputable, Mr. Rueda, and it is that you will surely pass into history, for being the only government, since there is self-government in this country, which after eight years of stay in front of the Government of the Union have not achieved a single transfer of competences. They'll go into history too because it's the government that's most displeased self-government in this country. So they didn't worry, and that should be a task, if you really want to improve security and improve the functioning of local police in our country, which should take place in your time, as it is trying to get local funding to collect these aspects. But it should also – and since the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego we have proposed on many occasions – comply with another law that was also approved in 2007, which is Galician Police Act 8/2007. I suppose that all and all we are here will easily come to the conclusion that if the two-party government decided to deal almost simultaneously with Law 4/2007, of local police coordination, and Law 8/2007, of Galician Police, it would be because it considered that there was a certain complementarity between the two bills, and that it was a way of creating a model of police for Galicia that was not as irrational as we currently have; a model based on three fundamental principles: First of all, in efficiency, because with the dispersal of skills that now exist between the various bodies and security forces of the state operating in Galicia, of course, we believe that the existence of a Welsh police force would, from the point of view of efficiency in the provision of services, much more appropriate. A principle also of self-government, because, indeed, that Galicia had a police officer itself would be an advance in that self-government and would also be an instrument at the disposal of our self-government to ensure to the citizens and to the citizens of Greece the exercise of their rights and to ensure compliance with the law. And thirdly, of course, it could also help to solve some of the problems you've been talking about here throughout this morning, because it must be remembered that in Law 8/2007, in its Article 16, you established the possibility of establishing cooperation agreements between the Welsh Police and local authorities, precisely to address some of the issues you've been talking about here before, and that on many occasions they not only make it possible to provide adequate service to citizens, but they even end up compromising the security of the local police agents themselves. In this respect we have to recriminalize you, Mr. Rueda, which you did in 2009, when you arrived at the Government of Galicia, at no time established that the creation of the Welsh Police was a priority for the Greek Government. Moreover, when it was asked about this issue in September 2009, you stated that, although it was a relevant issue, there were two aspects that prevented it from becoming or being a short-term or medium-term goal for the Government of Galicia. You said on 9 September 2009 that the economic situation of the country and the Galician Union did not allow the State to demand the regulatory changes in the State Security Forces and Corps Act and the transfer of powers to provide content with that integral Welsh police because we had no money to support that police force. But you were also making another statement, which was that the situation that the adscribed Unit had, with 370 people incorporated into the Unit assigned at that time, also prevented it from starting that management, and that, therefore, you were marking as a priority goal to fill the self-sufficient Police Unit with the 500 personnel you were encrypting at that time, and according to the various information, we can say that today that target is already being met. And you put that tape, precisely, that we had the 500 police officers from the registered unit, to start working on the achievement of an integral police force for Galicia. So, Mr Rueda, I am using it, because we believe, honestly, from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that this country cannot have – taking into account its demographic circumstances, the way in which we have to settle in the territory, the competences that the municipalities have, the competences that the Autonomous Community has –..., we are absolutely convinced that we will not be able to provide an adequate response to the needs of citizenship in which we have to deal safely, with protection, with compliance with the law. Finally, with the functions performed by the various State Corps and Security Forces until we also have a proper police officer that serves as a complement to the work and tasks that the various local police bodies can have, and that also avoid those duplications and overlaps of bodies that we currently have in our country. I just want to finish by saying a data. Here it was repeated on many occasions by the people who preceded me in the use of the word, which there are only 129 municipalities of the 314 that contain with some kind of body – to be called in some way, because some is literally a local police body in our country. So, we're in that more than 60% of the municipalities on many occasions are absolutely abandoned by God's hand, because even those small, the most remote, those that have the greatest dispersion, on many occasions not even the coverage given to them by other bodies and forces of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u11	...State security guarantees neither the security nor the exercise, in many cases, of citizens' rights. So we are going to abstain from amendments to the whole, because we believe that, indeed, the proposed changes are necessary and unacceptable, and above all, because we believe that the great fundamental problems we have in this regard in this country are not solved through the amendment, or only through the in-depth amendment of Law 4/2007, but also in the development, implementation and implementation of Law 8/2007, by creating an integral police force in our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u13	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course our group has not tabled an amendment to this text, because it is also, of course, a law of a government chaired by a socialist and promoted by a socialist adviser, today our spokesperson, Mr Méndez Romeo, and of course it is not the intention of our group, in any case, to go against our own acts. And I must say, in addition, that in that debate – which I have been reviewing – the spokesperson for that time of the People's Group in the opposition, Mr. Ruíz Rivas, devoted quite hard and very disqualifying qualifications of that bill; and they voted – obviously – against their consideration and voted – after all – against the dictation that was presented in the Chamber when the Local Police Coordination Act was finally approved. Curiously, the interpretation we can make from our group is that it was so bad, and it was going to trigger all those evils, because it would seem to us almost logical that the current government had made a virtually complete reform of the law. And that's not the case, because some kindness would have and will have the law when the Government does what it does is to modify certain aspects of that law which are bound by both judicial judgments and by basic regulations of the State, and which obliges the adaptation, in all cases, of local police, that they are still officials. And it is also clear – as has already been said here – that this should probably be done before, but that this is a reality does not mean that we do not have to take it into consideration right now to solve problems both in local administrations, as well as in local police workers throughout Galicia, who need to solve problems; I say that legally, they always end up in trials and that they end up complicating the lives of people, institutions and that the Administration, in the end, has to end up assuming, because there is no other one left, because the law is the law and, therefore, they must comply with it. Therefore, the changes proposed here are given by the approval of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which must necessarily be adapted to the law. It is also motivated by Organic Law 4/2010, the disciplinary regime of the National Police Corps. Therefore, their adaptation is also necessary. And, of course, by the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which tells us that there are aspects, in the case of age, that are illegal. And for us something that is also important – said Mr. Vice-President and tell us that it is true – is that although not with all the collectives, but it has been discussed and agreed with a broad representation of the trade union organizations, let's say that classics, as well as with the Federation of Municipalities itself. But it is also clear that we can use the debate of this law to produce some changes that seem to us to be common sense. And those changes can be made, so we do not present the amendment for return in the corresponding debate in Phoenicia and in the Commission, and if there is any will. And besides, as it seems that the People's Group has made amends, it seems that the bill that Mr. Méndez Romeo introduced on his day was not as bad as Mr. Ruíz Rivas said, because they really maintain the structure, and more practically 70% then. What is changed is simply because of legislative evolution and the evolution of time, which also seems to be common sense in this period. Well, man, I think there will be a desire – I hope – on the part of the majority group to admit some changes that have already been discussed here; in some we will agree to 100%, in others to a lesser percentage, but it seems reasonable that in the debate in the PN and the Commission we have reached agreements and the majority group will admit a significant percentage of the amendments. For example, the work of inspection and control of the Galician Union, which seems also reasonable. Because the task of inspection and control is not solely to sanction, simply in many cases it must be to check that the law is met, that the rules are met; even as a guarantee effect, because ensuring that the services work is good for the citizens, and that may also imply that the Council of Galicia has to make greater budgetary commitments, because there are councils – which is what Mrs Peace said here – that it is impossible for them to comply with the law with the financing model we have right now for our councils, is impossible! We have municipalities that have surpluses and that the modifications caused by such a Montoro cannot devote resources to hiring more personnel when they are under the ratios established by law. For the municipal police, too. When we talk about the introduction of mechanisms that allow local police bodies to be held together, I can only agree with Mrs. Peace and the development of another law also produced by Mr. Méndez Romeo and a coalition government that is systematically demonized. Well, make me gesture Mrs. Peace who says no. Well, maybe he's not demonized, but of course he looks like it on this side of the House. Why? Because our country is different, it's not better or worse than others, but the territorial structure and the settlement of the population is different. Look, it's not the same county with a single local police station, but it's got a civilian guard headquarters there, for example, that a county that doesn't have a civilian guard headquarters. The function of the traditional Civil Guard patrolling the countryside, where there were no resources in the municipalities, that could be done perfectly by a policeman of ours, who besides you have a law and who don't want to develop it, because you always associate these kinds of issues with sovereignty. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We have villages with 1 or 2 or 3 inhabitants, larger. When statistics come out, and you're in charge of receiving them, and you should analyze them very carefully, assaults, thefts and all kinds of incidences on people living alone, older people, people who are assaulted by organized bands sometimes and sometimes not so organized, it happens in places almost always in our rural environment that lack resources. No one's going to send a municipality a lot of square miles and at least 1,500 inhabitants to a single police station. It's impossible, because besides that person, like any worker, he's entitled to a schedule and conditions, and of course he won't do it at night. These things we can perhaps try to solve them with the amendments we tabled. The definition of mobility. And here, Counselor, I'd call you. Because sometimes a right is just becoming an instrument for those who can afford it, and can even lead to bad practices of taking places because they can compete permanently, why? Because they have many courses done, because they have many years of service, and therefore they have accumulated years of experience and, finally, a broad curriculum, and then not always these squares are occupied. And even we have come up with some unrecommendable practices, which could be solved. Finally, we can talk, Mr. Counsellor, and I suppose you have enough ability to influence your group, that in the subsequent process, after taking into account this bill, there are amendments that are reasonable, as reasonable as those that have been put on the table in the discussion forums that have given rise to the text that you referred here, that we know they have existed, we will not deny it; but there are other issues that have remained outside and that is possible, also taking advantage of this procedure, that we seek their solution. So I've already told you that we're going to vote favourably for consideration, and we don't because we don't think the law needs any more changes than you have presented, but we believe you can do in the subsequent process, and if there's any will on your part, we can do much better when you come here and tell me. And then allow me to finish, Counselor, you couldn't avoid this practice that seems to be part of this Greek Government's political DNA: advertising and propaganda. You couldn't help but bring here a modest bill, because it's the adaptation, I say, to the regulations and to the judgments that are bound to be complied with, you spoke of how much this Government had benefited; you, of course, who is responsible for the area in appropriations, resources... It's true, before this law there were vehicles of all kinds, of all brands, at last each corporation did what it could on the basis of its resources. Now they're all of a single brand, a single brand that's the same vehicles that were also bought for the high positions of the German Government. Curiously, and surely you won't have anything to do with it, it's the same brand that gave you a vehicle, totally free of charge – I don't know if you've returned it if you haven't, so that Mr. Núñez Feijóo in the campaign, before entering the Government of Galicia, had traveled all over Galicia, for free of charge; of the same brand, a high-end car, and that in addition from that car, totally free of charge, had criticized the use of vehicles by other rulers. Nothing else, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mrs. Soneira, you're talking about cars, the same ones that left you bought, exactly the same ones. From the People's Parliamentary Group we welcome the initiative of the Galician Council to deal with this amendment of the Local Police Coordination Act because we believe it is a necessary reform, firstly, necessary; necessary after the various judgments you know and have demonstrated the urgency of ensuring the legal certainty of the Greek Councils in the selective processes for the provision of squares in local police. It is a reform which reaches this Parliament duly consensual to the administrations concerned and to the professionals to whom it is headed. This is something that the opposition groups don't care about, but the truth is that this is a reform that reaches this perfectly consensual camera. It is a guaranteed reform, insofar as it eliminates arbitrary discrimination and guarantees rights in relation to forced retirements, second activities or internal promotion systems, with the aim of promoting a convenient career within the bodies of local Greek police. Something that worries the Galician police and you absolutely nothing. So we are facing a fundamental reform; a fundamental reform that will allow the municipalities to guarantee the coverage of the necessary squares to properly maintain the local police service. From the People's Group we advocate the need to reform this law in 2007 for several reasons: The first is that we were already carrying in our electoral program in a manner that expresses the empowerment of collaborative mechanisms in the field of local police personnel, and this law deepens in that direction. Secondly, the text that is brought to this Chamber today comes from a technical working group created within the Committee on Coordination of Local Police in Galicia; a group that counts with the participation of four trade unions, Mr. Ron, four trade unions, the Association of Chiefs and Commands of Local Police and persons who have responsibilities as conciliators and mayors. As the vice president explained in his speech, this bill designs more flexible mechanisms to cover the squares called for by the internal promotion process, to facilitate interchanges, to facilitate the prolongation of the active life of agents who want to remain in the first activity. So we believe this is a law that will have a very positive impact on the management of the local police personnel in Galicia that make the municipalities. We support this amendment of the law because, unlike other parliamentary groups, our intention is not to urge the Government not to comply with the judgments, our intention is to urge the Government to comply with the judgments and comply with the law. And we think you should walk in the same direction. You know that against the law of the Bipartite, there is a ruling by the High Court of Justice that considers to be inconsistent with European legislation the age limit of the thirty-six years imposed to access the local police. So what we have to do is to amend the law to comply with the judgments and to comply with Community rules. The issue is to provide legal security to the municipalities, legal security in municipal proceedings, which avoid the doubts of interpretation that may lead to dysfunction in the provision of basic public services such as the local police. We support this law because, basically, it's the law that the municipalities want and it's the law that the local police officers in Galicia want; something that you seem to care little about. This text was adopted unanimously by the Local Police Coordination Commission. So we find no reason to justify the request for the return of this text to the Government and on the contrary, we believe there are many reasons to look for the sooner all this to be asked by the Town Councils and for the police to be vigilant in a new law. With regard to Mrs Soneira's intervention, look, Mrs Soneira, we do not practice derogatory revenge; that is part of the way the Socialist Party acts. Derogatory revenge is your practice, there's Mr. Pedro Sánchez. The derogatory revenge is of the Socialist Party. [[Applause]] And we have to adopt the law to some judgments. So the law shouldn't have been as good as you say, it shouldn't have been as good. I understand that you would like to congratulate here in public, not once but several, Mr. Méndez Romeo, for he is equally your candidate in primarys who intend to celebrate. But in any case, I have to talk to you about the amendment to the whole thing that we present at your time, because you seem to care, but you have selective memory. Look, we actually tabled a whole amendment to the law of 2007, and we did it for one reason, which you didn't want to remember in your intervention. We didn't think it was reasonable for us to deal parallelly with this Parliament which was made at that time by a law of the Welsh police and, on the other hand, by a law of local police, we believed that it should go all together in the same text, and you did not accept it, and that is why we tabled this amendment to the whole. With regard to Mrs. Paz Franco's speech, I have to tell you that your speech is frankly contradictory, because it qualifies as a partial amendment and at the same time defends the text of 2007. One of two: either the text is wrong and therefore you ask for a full reform, a full refund, or then the reform was fine, but you supported that reform. And they're very worried about the Galician Nationalist Block because they see how the Government of the People's Party will go into history. Mr. Rueda said how the People's Party's Government is going to go to history. Look, the People's Party's Government is going to go through history because it's the Government that has faced the worst economic crisis that our country has ever experienced, that we have managed to shield the welfare state and that we have managed to shield self-government. You're not going to go into history for anything; it's more: I think you're already history. In relation to the police ratios you were talking about, of course, when we talk about police ratios we have to talk about everything; I know you don't like talking about the Civil Guard and you don't like talking about the National Police. There are 2,500 local police officers in Galicia, 5,370 from the Civil Guard, 2,700 from the National Police. So the number of agents in Galicia is 10,550. We're talking about a ratio of 3.90 troops per thousand inhabitants in Galicia. The recommended police ratio is in two per thousand inhabitants in Galicia. We'll talk to all the data on the table. As far as amendments to the whole are concerned, we are, of course, surprised that two parliamentary groups in this chamber decide to put their heads on a project that is absolutely evaluated by those who are going to affect, by the municipalities and agents, by the local police professionals. AGE and its excision say no to what the municipalities ask and not to what local police officers ask, legitimately represented by their trade unions and professional organizations. That's the reality. You don't oppose a government, you don't oppose the People's Party, you oppose Galicia. You're not enough to oppose the Union anymore, you're going to oppose Galicia because they want to stop Galicia because they want nothing to work out and because they think that the worse Galicia goes, the better it will be for you. We are in the opposite position, we want to improve things and we want things to work in Galicia. We love Galicia because we are the representatives of most of the Greeks. It's that simple, ladies and gentlemen of AGE and of the Mixed Group: we are the voice of most of the Greeks legitimately represented in this chamber. And besides, you in your amendment say no to this bill when in any of your amendments to the whole there is not one repair to anything that is collected in the modification project. You make a whole amendment to the law of the Bipartite. With your amendments, you're critical of the 2007 text, not the proposed amendment that we bring to this chamber today. In fact, they present amendments – as I say – to the Bipartite. In their amendments, they accuse several articles of the law of not taking women into account, of not respecting pluralism and of not respecting trade union rights, but all of which refer to articles approved in 2007, not to our amendment. And therefore you accuse the two-party government of machist, sectarian and anti-unionist. It seems surprising to us. As for the current changes, which affect this bill, nothing has to say from AGE or from its excision. It's more than that: it's surprising because they say that reform is necessary, necessary, but they want to return it to the Government; it's in itself a contradiction. You are the ones of the no, of the permanent contradiction and those who want nothing to work. It's all good for them to attack Galician Junta, even taking them against the demands of the local Galician police officers. Look, I'm going to give you a date where you can be reflected: in this legislation you have asked for the return of thirty-five of the thirty-six bills that this government has sent to Parliament in Galicia. It is clear that you feel in possession of all the truth and that, of course, the others are always wrong. That's what you think and act like that. On the amendments to the whole, Mr. Ron, we have the feeling that you have a very negative view of the local police; you speak of caciquil use and I believe that you with your words question the professionalism of the 2,500 local police officers in Galicia. You are able to maintain that the local police unions report that this project has not been subjected to a process of consultation, participation and dialogue. And look, Mr. Ron, I have to tell you that this bill has been informed unanimously by Labour Commissions, UGT, CSIF and IGC, and it has been reported favourably by Axempol, the Association of Chiefs and Commands of Local Police in Galicia. The only ones who are against it is the trade union of the Tides or the union of the crime. But, of course, you talk about the municipalities represented in that commission are not in favour, and I have to tell you that this bill has a favorable report from the Fegamp. I'm sorry to bother you... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u17	You criticize the pluralism of the Coordination Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u18	Mrs. Martínez, please be quiet. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u19	I wish I could go on...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u21	No, what I said is that the crime union doesn't support this change. So what is clear is that you criticize everything at all, but the truth is that this is a change that is perfectly endorsed by its recipients. He also claims that the two-party government has caused a terrible wage differentiation. And I have to tell you that in that matter we agree, we shared those criticisms in 2007, and we regret that the Nationalist Block Galego or the part of AGE that was at that time in the Nationalist Block Galego did not support at that time the criticisms that we addressed to the law of 2007 regarding wage differentiation, which was not able to correct. With regard to the amendment to the entire Joint Group, I have to tell you that we do not understand your position. You qualify as minimalist reform, deepening on that idea that seems to override your amendments that the law of the Bipartite should be terrible and that's why we should change it completely. Indeed, as we have stated, it is a timely reform, a very concrete reform to meet specific needs: the needs expressed by the municipalities and the representatives of the police. Mrs. Fernández, sitting from Hórreo, seems to know much better the demands of local police than local police themselves, and we believe that this attitude is disrespectful to the legitimate representatives of local police that are part of the working groups that participated in this reform. You also ask for changes in relation to measures to recognise the role of union action, and we have to tell you that this is perfectly collected in the law of 2007, in article 52 of the law, where the defence of the trade union rights of these workers is expressly collected. And so it was an article written by Bipartite himself, which you criticize today. There was also criticism of the lack of measures regarding gender-based violence, and we have to tell him that we disagree. And in that sense we have to defend the law of 2007, because, of course, all groups at the time of the law celebrate article 45 of that law, where there is a need to specifically incorporate subjects of gender equality and violence into the courses of access to the local police. And we have to tell you without going any further that last day 16 has finished a 20-hour course on police action in cases of gender violence and that in the next month of April there will be two courses on the recently approved victim's statute. Last year, seven courses were held related to gender-based violence, with a total of 277 students. So those shortcomings you're talking about are not at all true. And also tell him that the Security Academy is doing the drafting work of a unified protocol to approve the actions of all local police in this matter. It's from the Union in this direction, too, to put in place local coordination tables in the wake of gender-based violence, where it would be good for all the municipalities to cooperate actively. To finish, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Group is going to vote against amendments to the whole of it by AGE and its excision against this amendment of the law. It will vote against because we believe that we are in the face of a change to the local police law that is necessary, a law that reaches this Parliament with the consent of the councils, with consensus with the representatives of the local police, and a law that we believe is necessary to provide legal security to the municipalities that have local police, so that they can cover the vacant squares with legal guarantees, understanding that the new law will also provide flexibility in key issues such as internal promotion, exchanges, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u23	...the maintenance of the first activity, the retirements forced by permanent disabilities, the adaptation of the disciplinary regime in accordance with the National Police's Organic Law or the adaptation to the designation of groups and subgroups of the public service under the Galician Public Employment Act.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u25	Finally, we are faced with an amendment of the necessary law, demanded by the municipalities, also demanded by the representatives of the professionals of the various local police; we are faced with a law that comes with consensus, and therefore we understand that it is a fundamental law to improve the functioning of the local police in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u27	Well, I want to make a little change, because you say this reform of this Bill to amend Law 4/2007 has passed all dictates. And that's not true, because the ESC – Economic and Social Council – has not passed, which reports on laws of security and social economy, because we believe that this has an important impact on the security of people and the economy of the municipalities, and it has not been agreed by the class unions, who would never admit the limitation of the right to strike. We will comment on the fact that we agree with the AGE colleagues in the amendments that they present and we agree in several comments on the ridiculous number of the local police staff, which is below the marking in the law of 2007, as we have already indicated in the first intervention. We also agree on the importance of municipal autonomy in the field of coordination and training of local police. Just as we also agree that the Board controls its competences with responsibility for the establishment of instruments that homogenise all local police bodies so as not to fall into private chiringuits. We also find that we are not the only ones who detect errors concerning articles that do not appear in the reform itself, as can be what we support in paragraph 1, establishing controls for the enforcement of the law, in order to coordinate and unify it. In paragraph 2, as we also explained, we have to take into account the plurality of local police bodies. We've already talked about the woman's theme, which seems to me that Mr. Tellado, I don't know, the woman, especially for real cases that have happened, which I'll comment on later, shouldn't mind. Paragraph 3 is also going to support it because we understand that it is a very urgent demand for the joint service, as we have already explained, to have an operational and economic capacity, for the problem of financing these local administrations. In paragraph 4 we will also support the balance of salaries in all municipalities and by sex. In paragraph 5, we hope that in the immediate future the local police rate will be improved by the number of inhabitants, although the problem is in the planning of the municipality, who can deal with this in order to develop the activity in the right conditions. We understand that it is important to clearly regulate horizontal and vertical mobility, to promote individual merits, without mounting chiringuits, and also to further develop the rules applicable to local police themselves, which is the elaboration of the organic regulations themselves for the operation of the local police public service. We also agree that we should change what are the aspects that are introduced in the reduction of days; if I think there should be a normality in this type of practice. We don't understand what the problem is by joining together what are the bodies responsible for coordinating these cops. And we understand that it's a real violation of rights not to be allowed to strike like any other worker. I doubt workers and workers would not pick up and claim this. And then I agree with the BNG partner that we understand that, even though the law of 2007 has made great progress, in these nine years there have been legislative changes and it has also changed its own life, there are other kinds of social, economic and political agents. If we make a fencapé what the city council's own funding is. And we understand, as the fellow BNG commented, that it would be very important to complement the different security services of both the Galician police and the local police, as well as the other bodies, whether the National Police or the Civil Guard, because it is a distinguishing element of what our country is, Galicia, with respect to other points of the state, especially because of the dispersion of the population. And I wanted to comment that we know we won't accept the amendments to the whole, but we will continue to work and present the partial amendments. If I wanted to ask Mr. Tellado, better now for his position at Horreo, if you can really explain to me what the society of well-being, which he understands for quality of life. That quality that people get through the turning doors, the plugs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u28	You've got to go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u29	...or for corruption? [[Murmurs.]] And I'd like you to remember – and I want to point out again – the problem of women, and if you don't remember the case in Vigo some time ago, where a woman died in service because she didn't have her EPI, an anti-ball vest. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u31	Mr. Tellado, you're giving me neural urticaria, I'm telling you directly. Listening to your argumental poverty is really sick and makes it really hard to get here quietly and address you normally, because you use the arguments in an absurd way. You look like you can't even read properly. In fact, since this matter of Oratory is being implemented in the Greek education system, I also recommend that you attend these classes to improve a little in the use of your argument. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I recommend the President of the Bureau too – now the President – to pay attention, because to call "the crime syndicate" as you have called impunity to some Galician people who are ruling somewhere in Galicia seems shameful. And it's one of those arguments that causes neuronal urticaria. [[Protests.]] Mr. Tellado, learn to read, learn to speak and learn to listen. Learn to listen too, which is very important not to make mistakes. So I'd ask the Bureau to withdraw that from the "crime union," because if I didn't have to call you "mafioso" directly, because of belonging to an organization that is being investigated by mafia behaviors. But, well, I'm not gonna do it, I'm just saying it. So you overshadowed the nest of the cuckoo with your argument, it went to 2007, and we just did what we did with our whole refund amendment is to focus on the bill that the Welsh Executive offers. And we say that if it's necessary, but it's late; if it's necessary, but it's epidermal, totally epidermal, because there are no fundamental articles that need to be modified to avoid the partisan, caciquil and sectarian use of the local police, and you have to say so. From a left organization we don't want that. It seems that the right hand is quiet and comfortable with those power quotas in the municipalities of Galicia. Well, I'm not accusing workers and workers, you're wrong. In this case I accuse the alleged use that a mayor or mayor may make, or that he may do the established local power, but not the workers and workers, who will be forced to obey; not the workers and workers who decide, for example, to go to a strike, and will be punished in a very serious way. That's what it offers. And yes, for example, an absolute lack of coordination. If the four current meetings have not served for the local police to see themselves as a fundamental public service of proximity, which guarantees the citizenship of all the Greeks and Greeks, they live where they live, they are where they are, and you make four of them go by two. So it becomes a cannibal ceremony; a cannibal ceremony of punctual meetings to appear in a photo, to say what we do, but it will lose all its effectiveness and the possibility of concreteization. We agree with what was said here. It's true, the Galician Police Act 8/2007 would be fundamental to implement it, but what we're talking about here is local police. That's why we focus directly on the eves that are seen in the bill, on the modifications offered by the People's Party, because you say you guarantee the coverage of the necessary squares. Question: How and how? And how are you going to guarantee it when we have a permanent budget corset? You talk about talking, and you know it, and we're in that dynamics and dialectics where what matters is just to restrict the Bipartite who couldn't do well, and that you're wonderful and that's going to happen to history. Well, we've made it clear that they're going to go to history, but to history because it's the legislation where citizens' rights have been violated and their rights have been further degraded, where public services have been further degraded, and where the level of citizenship has been completely impoverished. And, therefore, we claim with the return to the whole of the public service covered with guarantees throughout Galicia, so that it favors citizenship in its citizenship rights, living where it lives. With you there are many municipalities where citizens are second-class. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Ron. Mr. Tellado and Mr. Ron, if you think we're removing the phrase "union from crime," because eventually in a Parliament... [[Murmurs.]] Is there any desire to withdraw it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, you can talk. I'm sorry, but I'm wondering if you can withdraw it, because I wasn't in the debate, but it was a suggestion from Mr. Ron, if he's willing to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u33	Yes, Mr President, I have no objection to withdrawing that expression if you have felt alluded to, understanding that Mr Ron also withdraws all that talk in respect of this Member and this group. Otherwise, I'd make it clear that my intervention is correct.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u34	Thank you. We're going to remove anything that's offensive and that's how we're all fine. He's retired, the offensive words are removed, it's all right. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Let's continue the debate. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u35	The amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Socialist Parliamentary Group are maintained for the plenary. The President of the Commission, General Administration, Justice and Interior, Mr Agustín Baamonde, spoke for the presentation of the Commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u36	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are going to discuss was entered into Parliament's Register on November 5, 2015, with settlement number 43421. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 9 November 2015, admitted this initiative, issued its publication in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament and the opening of the deadline for amendments. Even so, he agreed to be dealt with by the First Institutional Commission, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs. The amendments to the whole were qualified by the Bureau of the Commission on 11 December 2015 and published in the BOPG on 14 December 2015 too. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia tabled an amendment to the whole, which was rejected at the plenary session on 26 January 2015. Seventy-two amendments were tabled to the joint text, namely: twenty-one from the Joint Parliamentary Group, thirteen from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, twenty-four from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, eight from the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia and six from the People's Parliamentary Group. At its meeting on 28 January 2016, the Commission appointed the following speakers: by the Popular Parliamentary Group: Ms. María Julia Rodríguez Barreira, as its holder, and Mr. Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira, as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia: Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, as holder; and Ms. María Soledad Soneira Tajes, as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego: Ms. María Teresca Paz Franco, as holder; and Mr. Francisco Jorquera Caselas, as alternate; by the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega: Mr. José Javier Ron Fernández, as holder; and Mr. Ramon Vázquez Díaz as alternate; by the Joint Parliamental Group: Ms. María Consuelo Martínez García, holder; and Ms. Monica Rodríguez Fernández as alternate. The Constitutive Session of the European Parliament took place on 8 February 2016 and after successive sessions prepared the preliminary report, which was the subject of debate and approval at the 1st meeting of the Commission on 11 March, incorporating into its opinion all the recommendations made by the European Parliament. The law is divided into five chapters, four additional provisions, a derogation provision and four last provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on the management of legal aid for general administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector within the Commission which I chair. Today we submit this to debate and vote in plenary. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u37	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Groups to intervene? [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u38	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Well, this bill aims to regulate the double function of the board of lawyers of the Board: judicial counseling and defence in judgment of the Self-Government. Let's keep some of the amendments we tabled. In particular, Amendment 1 to Article 11 because we believe that it is in clear incongruence between the regulation in paragraph 3 and paragraph 5. Paragraph 3 states that it is not necessary to act by means of a prosecutor. However, paragraph 5 sets out the possibility for the Board to include in its fee-taxation the costs corresponding to the search functions. Which is why the two are contradictory, if you do not need a proxy, the search rates should not appear. We believe that the agreed transaction of Article 20(2) with regard to the designation of counsel or lawyer and the waiver of the defence of counsel from Union, guarantees the right of public workers and workers to the free choice of lawyer or lawyer. We maintain Amendments Nos 3 and 4 to Article 21(2), because we believe that once legal services have been granted authorization, it should not be possible to revoke this concession, as it may create defence problems. At least a period should be set within which such a concession may be revoked so as not to leave the affected worker or worker in defence. We also maintain Amendment No 5, which eliminates Article 22(3), which establishes administrative silence with a negative meaning. We understand that administrative silence should have a positive meaning, and the reasoned resolution of any denial of legal aid should be binding. We understand that it is not logical and that it is neither transparent nor fair that someone is denied the legal assistance of the Union without a justification for such denial. We therefore believe that it creates defence among workers and public workers. We also maintain Amendment No 6, to delete Article 23, which establishes the obligation of the staff to the service of the Administration to bear all representation costs other than defence constraints. It doesn't seem logical that staff should bear expenses arising from the exercise of their function or office, or from the fulfilment of orders from their superiors, and therefore according to this you have to assume costs. The costs must be assumed by the Administration itself, since it is the entity to which it belongs, like any company, in the face of a lack of its employees. They always have the responsibility to bear those costs. These costs should therefore be assumed by the Administration, as long as it is exempt from the payment of fees and deposits and when it has its own means of performing the expert tests. Therefore, public workers and workers are being forced to assume a cost that would not exist for Galician Union itself. We maintain Amendment No 7 to Article 24(2), which designates the person who holds the General Directorate of the General Legal Counsel to decide on the assistance, defence and representation of the persons concerned in the event that a proceeding affects several persons entitled to defence and conflicting interests. No rules or rules are laid down on how to solve this problem, so the decision remains to the free will of those with the General Directorate. It doesn't seem to be the measure or the fairest way to make this decision, much less when it is not collected – as we said before – the obligation to justify why your request was rejected. We also maintain Amendment No 9, to delete Article 25, since we believe that once the authorization for the use of legal services is granted, it is not ethical to begin the process with a person and in the development of that person to abandon it. We believe that the transaction of Amendments Nos 10 and 11 of the Joint Group to Article 26 regulates the assumption that the costs to which the opposite party is convicted are limited by judicial decision and do not cover all the costs of assistance and representation incurred by the public employee when introducing that the Administration will bear the costs that are not covered by the opposite party. At the same time, it guarantees the return by the Administration of expenses relating to the establishment of bank avalanche for the guarantee of defence expenses in the alleged denial of the authorization for the existence of conflicting interests, as regulated in paragraph 2 of the same article, when the judgment is favourable to the public worker in litigation. That is, if you deny the legal assistance of Joina to a worker or a public worker and after that trial you are recognized for your reason and, therefore, convicted of the opposite side, the Board undertakes to return all the costs it had for the worker, including the bank avalanche, through this transaction. We maintain Amendments Nos 13 and 14 of Chapters IV and V respectively, because they regulate matters which under the Basic Statute of the Public Employee must be negotiated with the legal representation of staff in the service of the Greek Administration, such as the relationship of jobs, functions and the provision of posts. Something insistent in the People's Party bills, something insistent in the People's Party bill proposals is the elimination of the obligation to negotiate with the legal representation of workers and workers. They're not eevas, it's a way of understanding politics, it's a way of understanding working relationships, and it's a way of understanding the role of union representation of workers and public workers. Of course, it's a board that denies the right to collective bargaining of public workers, but what it can't also refuse to negotiate and deal with the legal representation of public workers and workers such as the RPT, the functions or the provision of jobs. It's a serious breach, a repeated breach. That's why it's worth voting against this law, but we're not going to do it because rights are collected because of other rules, even if this obligation to negotiate is not included here. We maintain Amendment No 15 to paragraph 2 of the first final provision, which provides that the Council of Galicia will approve the organizational structure of the General Legal Counsel, thus determining its dependent organs, its powers and functions, without regard to the objective negotiation with the legal representation of public workers, as set out in Article 37 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which considers them matters of collective bargaining. Article 37.1 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee states: "They shall be negotiated in their respective fields in relation to the competences of each Public Administration and to the extent legally applicable in each case, the following matters..." and in paragraph (c)di: "The rules establishing general criteria for access, career, provision, job classification systems, and plans and human resources planning instruments". We therefore believe that this text does not comply with what is set out in the Basic Statute. In the same vein, Article 13.2 of Law 55/2003 of 16 December 2003 of the Framework Staff Regulations for the Staff Regulations of Health Services states: "Human resources management plans shall be approved, published or, where appropriate, notified, in the manner in which each health service is determined. They will be previously negotiated on the corresponding tables." In other words, both the official staff and the staff, as well as the statutory staff, in the three cases the Board's obligation to negotiate these conditions of access provision and the TPPs with the legal representation of workers and workers. I think we're still in time for the Board to recapitate and include that obligation, since just what it lets see is that it won't prevent that negotiation but it's within its philosophy and its way of understanding the labor relations and the role of trade union organizations is not in line with our democracy. Although he is a child and poor, the position the People's Party takes in this regard is even more anti-democratic, it does not correspond to our democratic state. It is therefore clear that the obligation to negotiate prior to the change in the powers and powers of the staff assigned to the General Directorate of the General Legal Counsel, as well as the structure of it, is a requirement which has been obvious in the present case. So, and even considering that this bill has a lot of eves, which is much better, but also in the hope that within a few months a new Government can improve this bill, we will proceed to abstain in the vote. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u39	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u40	Good day again. We are actually talking about a bill that is eminently technical, so in principle we would expect not to have many political-ideological disputes. However, as we have already explained in the whole debate, where we do not present amendments and where we abstained, in that plenary meeting on January 26, 2016 we discussed a number of aspects that made us inclined by abstention. And several of these aspects, which were talking about insisting on legal law, insisting on the absence and suppression of any kind of arbitrariness in the provision and guarantees of defence of workers and workers in the public sector, of the Public Administration. There were also deep in the concept of self-supply, which we understood was injured because the text itself showed the character of insufficiency, lack and inadequacy of the services to be provided by the Juridical Counsel, which therefore involved the use of external counseling, and hence privatization. And we remember that at that time we said that the remedy should only be in exceptional and duly justified cases. We understand that yet this aspect has not been sufficiently clarified in today's statement, in the presentation. In addition, we were saying that having outside counseling in certain contexts was supposed to violate the principles of merit, capacity, equality and publicity, and it was kind of a back door to jump into public employment by precisely avoiding public summons. That is why we stressed the need for that character which is fundamentally democratic. Similarly, in that debate we were talking about the negative administrative silence that is recorded in Article 22, where we were asking, or asking, through Amendment No. 4 – and that we maintain – that every demand has to be resolved expressly, there is no way of hiding in negative silence because we believe that negative silence is clearly a violation of the rights of workers and workers. And, therefore, the existence of negative-type silence makes other precepts which seek to introduce the bill itself. It's a contradiction to keep negative-type silence when it's intended to defend the rights of workers and workers in their use of legal advice. We have tabled eight amendments that insisted, therefore, on all these aspects, and we were not mistaken when we made that criticism in the debate of the plenary, when the People's Party, right is, accepted four of our amendments, Amendment No. 1 to Article 5, Amendment No. 3 to Article 13, No. 6 to 40 or 7 to the first additional provision, which they spoke about, precisely, what we had been criticized for in the plenary debate, of what the representative had criticized us, which is the need, in the self-supply within the public sector, to mark that it is done eminently through public universities as public bodies, if we have to rely on external means. And in article 13, where there was talk of execution of judgments, we stated that "in the stage of judgements the General Legal Advisory will promote how many initiatives favour the defence and protection of public interests." Or, for example, in Amendment No 6 to Article 40, we asked the Galician Council to encourage and carry out actions specifically relevant to the continuing training of counsel by organising training, improvement and research activities. Or finally, in the fourth amendment, directly accepted, number 7 to the first additional provision, there was evidence, contrary to harmonic bilingualism, that cordial bilingualism which was fixed in the plenary debate, in the initial text, in the need for consideration, logically, of the statutory obligations given in Article 5 and Article 4.64 of the Law on Linguistic Standardization, which determines that all actions must be carried out in English. Finally, during the presentation work we must also point out, for our part, that if two other amendments have been accepted – if well, logically, as in every proposed transaction, diminished in scope, at best, of what we have required –: in Amendment No. 5 to Article 34, to ensure compliance with the set out in Article 5 in relation to the whole principle of self-supply, and, finally, in Amendment No. 8 to the additional provision, where, in order to ensure what the law prescribes, it is necessary to establish all the budgetary amendments, transfers and credit enablings sufficient for them to be met. So from that point of view, we are happy with the work done. Now, as we said in the whole debate and in the debate on the motion, we understand that it is essential, on the one hand, to avoid any kind of discretion, and hence to maintain our Amendment No 2 to Article 10. And, above all, the administrative silence of a negative kind. We understand that this cannot be part of a bill like this. When it is intended to guarantee rights, it cannot be possible for the Administration to see no longer respond precisely to what workers and workers claim. For us, not to respond, that there is no express resolution, prevents the exercise of the rights that workers and workers have, and therefore this aspect to us so important, so fundamental, causes us to continue our abstention from the proposed law. Because we understand that keeping it in itself represents the impossibility of fulfilling some of the articles or articles that the bill itself envisages. For our band, we will no longer insist on arguments given in the presentation and in the debate as a whole. We understand that it is a draft technical law, but that inevitably there is always that tendency, logically, not to provide as much comfort as all that is the public. And, therefore, on our part, understanding that the right of citizenship, the rights of workers and workers in the public sector, cannot be subjected either to discretion or to that negative silence which would render their defense absolutely invalid. So we repeat, and here we end, we maintain our abstention from the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, again, ladies and gentlemen. We need to go back to the whole debate in order to contextualize the vote of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on this bill. The Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block did not present on its day an amendment of the full refund to this bill because, as it was argued in that whole debate, it considered that all those most substantial deficiencies included in the draft law could be remedied through the submission of partial amendments, and above all because we considered that we were before a fairly continuous bill and that the only relevant aspect, let us say, referred to the clarification of some conflict situations, essentially of what has already been discussed here, of the legal right of public employees and public employees of Galicia, since virtually all other aspects maintained or maintained the same structure and orientation that until now comes with the Judicial Council of Galicia. It is a pity that Mr. Puy had left the Vice-President of the Galician Council, because he intended to reproach you at the beginning of this intervention – not even Mr. Puy, it is another disgrace – because in that debate Mr. Puy, who participated on behalf of the Parliamentary Group... Forgive me, Mr. Jorquera's one was the only justification I heard at the beginning of the session, which justified his absence on health grounds, of no other Member or Member I heard there was a justification, despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure expressly say that when we saw him we had to justify our inattentiveness. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I said I regretted Mr. Puy's absence because it was he who intervened in the whole debate, and it was he who went out here, after we had intervened both the amendmenter and the rest of the groups and made criticisms of this bill, namely that in the presentation process virtually all those issues that we were raising the opposition groups that deserved us certain reservations in this bill could be settled, and that there was total predisposition by the People's Party – to which the Vice-President of Galicia signed and, therefore, we interpret that also by the Group of Galicia – to arrive at the maximum of agreements and consensus in this presentation. And I must say that unfortunately today we have seen this plenary with a document in which, in fact, no significant consensus has been reached or significant progress has been made on those essential issues that were expressed in the whole debate which separated the parliamentary groups from the Government. I have to say, in particular, that it reaches this parliamentary group, which only accepted a single amendment, which, of course, we presented all parliamentary groups because it sent us this amendment to the Secretary-General of the University of Coruña, and which referred to, in case it had to resort to external areas for the legal advice of the Union, universities were also considered as part of the Defence of Galician Union. That was the only one that was accepted, and two transactions were made with regard to this parliamentary group. And, of course, none that affected those six fundamental aspects of what we were talking about in the whole debate. The distinction between the legal assistance of the General Advisory Committee and the legal services of the councils continues to be maintained, with the Legal Advisory Committee moving away from matters of administrative processing, except as regards recruitment and policy publications. We believe that this remains possibilities for more efficient legal advice. Secondly, there are still continuing aspects, as is the case with assistance from instrumental entities, which are left to an agreement between the Union and those instrumental entities in exchange for payment, rather than that there are, above all, delegated advice. Another point that is obvious is that, in the case of the outsourcing set out in Article 5 – which was also the subject of debate in the whole debate, the value of redundancy – no limitation has been established, no criteria, no caution has been established, so that it would not end up as a glue for privatization and permanent outsourcing. And, as they report from some areas, not even in the bill, no kind of transitory was established to try to recover those orders that exist right now. And finally, nothing has been changed in relation to the supply system of officials and officials of this body, nor in the access system. We proposed that a competition-opposition tour should also be set up between recognized prestigious jurists, because we believe that an only endogamic body such as what exists at present, of people who practically all their professional and labor activities were developed in the Legal Counsel of the Galician Council, limited, and which was therefore very interesting so that it was allowed to access recognized prestigious jurists in certain areas of law as if there were mobility from different administrations, as in the case of the local administration, which we believe could enrich the Juridical Counsel of the Galician Council. And finally, and no less important, it is a matter of what we in the whole debate have said that for us it was a matter, let us say, decisive when we can change our voting orientation on this bill, which is that of the Greek language. We maintain amendments that we believe would be important in solving all these deficiencies and, if allowed, in defending the amendments, I will begin, precisely in the opposite direction, with what I have done before, and I will start with the first additional provision, which is where the use of the Greek language is spoken. The original text sent to us by the Government, after making the references to all the statutory and regulatory provisions binding on the use of the Welsh language, says that: "It will be thought that yours..." – i.e. in the field of general legal advice – "...actuations, especially those addressed to other organs of the autonomous administration and those taking place in front of the judicial organs rooted in Galician territory, are usually done in Greek." I mean, it's an absolutely lax wording, absolutely imperative, and in which words are used so little coercive from a legal point of view as "care" and "usually." Finally, there has been a transaction to this original text in which also, by keeping the first heading, the following wording is maintained: "You will be careful that all your actions, in particular those addressed to other organs of the Autonomous Administration and those produced in front of the judicial organs rooted in the Greek territory, are done in Greek." We, for our parliamentary group, although, indeed, there is a minimum advance in respect of the original text in the sense that it is removed from the "normally" to introduce the "all its actions", refers clearly to the writings, but it continues to maintain the "careful", which we continue to think of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block which is an indeterminate legal term and which does not require. We therefore argue that the text we presented in Amendment No 13 to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block in Galicia would be much more appropriate, especially in order to comply with what is precisely laid down in that provision, which is what Articles 4 and 6 of Law 3/1983 and the Statute of Autonomy itself. And, therefore, we believe that it should be noted that in general legal advice his actions, both written and oral, which are developed within the scope of bodies of the Greek administration, public administrations based in Galicia or judicial bodies based in Galicia, will be carried out in the Greek language. It seems to us that it is a much clearer wording, which leaves no doubt that there is a desire to normalize the use of the Greek language in such an important area, Mr. Vice-President, which is also of their competence, I have already told you in the whole debate, such as the Administration of Justice, where only 3% of the judicial resolutions are made in the Greek language and where I am opposed, by personal experience, that the actions of the Galician Council before the judicial organs practically develop not only the oral ones, but also the written ones in Spanish. We also maintain and believe that it would be relevant to amend this law in a positive way, which we have already said was continuous, Amendment No 12, which was intended to add to Article 35, precisely the question of what I was talking about earlier, that specific public summons were periodically established, through the system of competition-opposition, between lawyers of recognized professional experience, both in other public administrations or institutions, as well as in the field of private legal advice and counsel. We believe that this would be a way of enriching Galician Juridical Counsellor in matters that can usually not be so professional. We also maintain Amendment No 11, in relation to the instrumental entities in which we intend to add a new paragraph to Article 33 of the following content: "In addition, in the instrumental entities of the public sector which by its dimension or complexity is considered necessary – for example it might be the case of Sergas or Sogama, or some other, by quoting some – there may be legal advice, and, in any case, a specific legal office will be created for the advice of the entities of the autonomous public sector." And we also keep other amendments that we consider relevant, such as Article #2; Article #3; Article #3; Article #10; Article 32; to quote only a few who have all their lordships and to whom I am therefore not going to read them. And I end by saying that, unfortunately, and despite the good words Mr. Pedro Puy gave us in the whole debate, despite the apparent commitment made by the vice-president in that debate, we believe that the consensus, the desire to reach agreements of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Parliament on matters which could improve this law were so insignificant or non-existent that unfortunately we cannot change the meaning of our vote and that, therefore, we will continue to abstain from this opinion and therefore vote abstaining from this bill. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u44	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Once again we believe that it is appropriate to bring the collation the same text that we have betrayed on the day of the debate of the amendment to the whole, the text by Paco Rubio Llorente, which is from the 1980s and which refers precisely to how bills should be handled properly and duly. And this text says, among other things – he wrote in Spanish, and I am going to read it in Spanish – "Once the first draft is drawn up, the project's driving minister communicates it to affected groups or sectors (unions, professional colleges, employers' associations, etc.) and negotiate their suggestions. Sometimes even the draft prepared is made public, which is thus being discussed by the opinion." Well, we believe that with this bill brought to us by the Government, Paco Rubio continues to be present, because this project – despite the good thing that existed in the negotiation in Commission 1a, which we recognize on the day of the last meeting of the Commission and that it is indeed to be thanked – this text arrives here without prior communication or with trade unions or with professional colleges or with any kind of association; neither with regard to the affected nor, of course, with regard to public opinion. It is not worth saying to us, if this is the way the People's Party will do, that this text has the favourable report of the General Council of the Judiciary, or internal reports of the body of lawyers and lawyers of the Autonomous Community; in relation to the body of lawyers and lawyers, because they are not here to tell us that, indeed, that is so, and because the prestige of the General Council of the Judiciary Power is quite in the hands-on and therefore not really useful to us as a favorable report to this text. We are aware that the regulation of this law is temporary, that it was 1984 and that, essentially, Galicia is regulated in a regulation. No one argues, therefore, that its regulation through a law is more than enough. But the question is that since this bill has not been referred to the unions, neither has it sought dialogue, nor has it sought negotiation, and despite this good thing that existed in the Commission, we understand that this bill is not the bill that the General Legal Assistance of the Autonomous Community would need. In the Socialist Parliamentary Group we are aware that its regulation is necessary, but it is clear that this has not been the case since we tabled 24 amendments, and these 24 amendments, in addition to the amendment to the whole, have been accepted by 2, which have actually been, as it is usually the Government's, timely amendments to very specific words, and we have been able to deal with 4. I mean, they were accepted by the People's Party only 6 amendments. For us, it is insufficient, and that is why we have already announced our maintenance of amendments – those that have not been accepted or dealt with – and our abstention in the final vote of the Commission opinion 1a. And the reasons for this abstention are, in short, three. What I've said about the government's lack of negotiation and dialogue in this bill, because we don't believe in this idea that brings about the project of deepening the improvement of general legal assistance. In Galicia there are fewer than 60 lawyers and lawyers from the Autonomous Community, and what would be needed, and that is what they say, would be a public invitation to squares so that they could really develop their work properly, and that would be to improve general legal assistance. And the last reason, which is our battle horse since this bill began and entered this Parliament, is not to say disinterest anymore, but the most absolute contempt that the Government shows for our language, for the Greek language; for the use of Greek in this matter too. Finally, we maintain our amendments and, as it is very difficult to talk about 24, and apart from them are very technical amendments which we believe do not come into a political debate, which is what we have to do in this Parliament, we are basically going to focus on 4, basically. The number 6 which affects an article which has been amended in part, which refers to the original primacy of the private external media on the General Legal Counsel itself of the Autonomous Community. The Socialist Parliamentary Group believes that not only should private external means be used to hire lawyers' offices, consultants to do the work of general legal advice, but they should also be provided with external means to other bodies of the Autonomous Community itself, the General Administration of the Autonomous Community or other entities of the autonomous public sector with those means. Not only to go to universities, which are now incorporated into the text, precisely by several amendments that we made to the opposition parliamentary groups, and because the university itself did not understand how it rejected its possibility of offering its means to its own legal counsel. We understand that hiring any consultant or any attorney's office, whether or not, is much more expensive than having a general legal advice made up of a body of lawyers who deserve respect from the Government. And we also understand that it is contrary to Law 14/2013, of rationalization of the autonomic public sector, which is the People's Party, and that we understand that you should comply if you really intend to comply with your own laws at least. The second amendment we would like to talk about is No. 15 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which refers to everything that surrounds the figure of the head of the general management, that odd figure of the head of the General Directorate of the General Legal Counsel of the Autonomous Community. We also believe that it should be the function of coordinating general legal assistance in the advisory and contentious part, because the lawyers themselves and the lawyers of the Autonomous Community have expressed this to us. They need coordination, and who better than, let's say, the chief of counsel who could make that coordination that is not included, and we don't understand why, nor do we understand the reasons, at the moment, for giving us the voice of the People's Party not to accept this amendment. The third of our amendments is number 18, which we're going to talk about today. You're still getting started, we don't know why, in a law, the object of opposition by lawyers and lawyers of general legal advice will be specified. It would be nice if you were in a development regulation, but a law is not done to regulate the subjects that you have to compete with and that you have to approve those that are going to oppose. And we know that you think the same thing as us, it's not a matter of law, it's a matter of regulation, but in any case it's a matter of regulation, and we understand that this amendment should be accepted. And finally, Amendment No. 22 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which justifies us for abstention and which has at its time justified our amendment of return, is an essential amendment. We're talking about the first additional provision, which has already been read after its modification by the BNG spokesman, which refers to the fact that all the actions of general legal counsel lawyers will be considered in English. Well, in the Royal Academy dictionary it's said to take care of it is to put diligence and attention to the execution of something. For us it is insufficient for the Government to give attention to the use of the English language, which is one of our official languages. What we understand – and so say the associations of lawyers responsible for the defence of Galicia, as is the Glaga Juridical Brotherhood, who so expressly has transferred it in addition to the Director General of Linguistic Policy – and what the Government should do is demand that these lawyers become involved – because they are representatives of the Galician Union in their actions – in the use of the Greek language in all kinds of procedural proceedings, and that they are also ordered that in their demands – by invoking the Law of Linguistic Standardization of Fraga Iribarne of the year 83, their article 7.2 – ask for the file in Galicia, make demands in English and, in addition, ask the judges and the judges to dictate their judgments in German. That is why we propose a substitution amendment which is also in accordance with the Galician Autonomy Statute, the Law of Linguistic Standardization, Articles 4 and 6.4 and in Article 7.2, in which it is expressly possible to cover this application and this requirement of claims in Greek by the lawyers themselves and the lawyers themselves. It's not so complex, it's not even the lawyers and the lawyers who have to know the English language – because it's one of the parts of their opposition – and they wouldn't even have to write down the demands in English, they wouldn't even be obliged by the judges to dictate the judgments in Greek, but there's a body of translators who would be able to make that translation, and also according to the Statute of autonomy and the Law of linguistic normalization. We understand that our amendment was not accepted, we understand it because we put forward a non-law proposal with this text in Commission 1 and the members of the Government, the representatives of the People's Parliamentary Group at that time, voted against this non-law proposal. We believe they must recapitate, because that's what the representatives of the Glaga Judiciary Brotherhood say to us. Why? Because they are representatives, these lawyers and these lawyers represent the Autonomous Community of Galicia, and there are two languages: Spanish and Greek, and they have an obligation to make our language used in an area where it is not commonly used. So much so that the use of the Greek language in justice, according to data from the year 2005, did not reach 5%. There is no current official data, since 2005 we have no official data, no concern about knowing this data. We know that right now the situation is even worse than in 2005, and so they tell us precisely the members of the judicial brotherhood who are concerned about the lack of use of Greek in the field of justice, and that is why we said that there is an absolute contempt on the part of the Government of the use of Greek in the matter of justice. Moreover, because in the use of the process management applications used by the prosecutors, the judges, Minerva and Fortuny, we have a response from the Government of the State of May 2015 to a question from the Socialist Parliamentary Group saying: "In the case of the Minerva and Fortuny procedural management applications, operativity is excluded in other languages." Because in other judicial orders it can be harder. In the concensive-administrative it is easy to use Greek, and because the Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe for the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages has taken you out of your ears because you do not use or enhance the use of Greek, and they also encourage us to introduce necessary legislative changes, precisely, to develop procedures in our language. It is a great opportunity, Mr Vice-President of the Board, to apply the Statute of Self-Government, its Law of Linguistic Standardization of 1983 and an opportunity to comply with a European standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. The People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. The draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of Galicia and its public sector, which today is submitted to plenary consideration, is one of the five legislative initiatives covered by the programme of democratic impulse of the Galician Union 2015-2016, which aims to advance transparency, efficiency, ultimately excellence in the functioning of the autonomous public institutions. To that end, greater control over the financing of political parties, strengthened the role of the Board of Auditors as an external and independent control body, strengthened the direct participation of citizenship in parliamentary life and passed a law of transparency and good governance. And then, ladies and gentlemen, remember this because this German Government, with the support of the People's Group, has done more than anyone else in the fight against corruption. And it must be remembered because in that struggle, unfortunately, we have not found them to you, who have not been able to support any of the above-mentioned laws, except for the Transparency Act by the Socialist Group. The law that is now being considered in this plenary gives you a new opportunity to participate with your support of this democratic impulse, while it is aimed at increasing the quality and control of administrative action. It's about giving citizens the certainty of the submission of administrative action to legality, far from arbitraryness and under a system of objective and rigorous internal control. It's about giving citizens the confidence that the interests of the community, which are the interests of all, will be properly defended by their legal services. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that we have shown the best willingness to find points of meeting in the search for the greatest possible consensus that allows us to adopt a law capable of responding to the needs of control and defence counsel that now and in the future needs of the Self-Government, its entities and its public employees, and at this point I must regret that it does not seem sufficient to them the attitude of consensus and conciliation shown by this parliamentary group, to understand – that I will then refer to the number of amendments accepted – the degree of acceptance which I understand has reached this text, as I have just made clear to me the fact that everyone will refer to the same questions: self-provision, to the question of the Greek language or to the question of administrative silence, to which I shall soon refer. It is, therefore, a law that I understand that in substance they like, but that they focus on very timely matters their refusal and their justification and argumentation of their abstention, as they have just pointed out. Well, this is a law regulating legal assistance, the General Administration of the Autonomous Community and its public sector, which will provide legal advice, in general, through the Council of Galicia lawyers. A law laying down the principle of self-supply in the provision of assistance, so that the administration should turn to its own means and, in particular, to general legal advice, and only exceptionally to other means, and calls me to the attention that Mrs Vilan refers to establishing the primacy of external means, because indeed the law clearly says that: only when self-supply is impossible can external means be sought for the provision of legal assistance and always under the supervision of general legal advice, in application of the principle of unit of criterion. This is an issue that has actually not been peaceful throughout the Presidency, and they are actually maintaining their amendments on the possibility of resorting to the recruitment of foreign lawyers and prosecutors. We believe that it is necessary to consider the possibility of allowing, exceptionally, that defence and representation in court may be assumed by lawyers and external prosecutors, because there are interventions before courts – such as the Court of Justice of the European Union – where we need a collection of which our lawyers do not have, or even when our lawyers have to represent the Greek administration in territorial areas outside our Community, where it does not seem understandable that a lawyer has to move to present a letter and it seems more reasonable to designate a prosecutor in that territorial area. So, there will only be external assistance when counseling cannot meet with its own means what it is given and under exceptional conditions and all kinds of guarantees, and here I would like to refer to what these guarantees are, because they have been explained in a way that is not correct. If it is established that it will be exceptional, it shall be established that the report of the Head General of the General Legal Counsel, authorized by the holder of the relevant board, shall be made available in a reasoned resolution and always acting under the supervision of the General Legal Counsel. So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't understand that they carry this possibility when the principle of self-sustainment is clearly established. The fact is that for the first time it is avoided the proliferation of external legal aid contracts, which have abounded in other stages, and this possibility is created as something exceptional. And here I would like to remind you of the Socialist Party, which has just invoked the Law of Rationalization, which regulates, precisely, the principle of self-sustainment, which they voted against this law, and that when they ruled and ruled with the Nationalist Block Galego they made a real defeat of unjustifiable external contracts, a matter which this law cannot repeat again. Well, the law regulates the specialties of proceedings affecting the General Administration of the Autonomous Community, a matter to which it refers in some of the amendments that the Joint Group holds, which seek to eliminate prosecutor's fees and which refer to one of its amendments, because it does not understand that in a case it is established that no prosecutor is necessary and in another case the fees are included. Well, I think there's some confusion here, obviously it's not necessary to use a prosecutor, because the lawyers show the representation of the administration, but at the same time, when the costs are imposed, it's logical to understand, by the way, not always the law says whether it's the case, why?, because the prosecutor's intervention or representation is not always mandatory, and if that's the case, if it's the case, it's logical to understand that if the deputy of the Galician Union acts on behalf of the Administration, and there's a conviction in favour of the administration, it can include the fees that as a representation would correspond to a prosecutor. On the other hand, it contains a question that we believe you do not refer to it, but that we find particularly remarkable in the functions that are attributed to legal advice in general. You say this is a continuous law, which incorporates nothing new. We believe it's a law that increases functions, reinforces the judicial services of the Galician Union. It seems to us that there is an outstanding element which, in addition, has been increased by amendments in its functions to the amendments tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group, and which have to do with improving the quality of legislation. It is known that the legislative activity of the Union will not only be directed at renewing laws of old approval, adapting more recent to changes in basic legislation, but, above all, to giving a more accessible wording to our regulations. And – above all – it also simplifies it by condensing rules that may be dispersed into various laws, so that they are grouped into a single text, which up to now was spread into several. Therefore, it is about simplifying and clarifying existing legislation, we believe that in that role of lawmaking, but also in the participation of monitoring, coordination and planning. In these annual policy plans that are going to be done, it has a very important role to play in general legal advice and we therefore believe that this law comes to strengthen it, which seems very interesting to us. The Socialist Party refers to the absence of collective bargaining. We believe that we have made manifest throughout the Phoenicia that this is not a law that needs collective bargaining, or that it will need collective bargaining, and so we collect the further development to the extent that it affects the working conditions of the workers, but, of course, it is not a law that must be subjected to collective bargaining. Nevertheless, the favorable report of the association itself, which brings together 100 percent of the Council of Galicia's lawyers, was submitted, and of course, its report, its assessment, was positive. And it is very much my attention that questions the favourable report of the General Council of the Judiciary, because – obviously – if we get to this point, it won't be worth anything. And on the other hand, it seems to me that we could make a reflection. In the Basque Country, a similar law is being drafted, and there is no such question raised, and at that point you have not raised any amendments to collective bargaining. And well, I think it's also an inconsistencies that we're talking about now that we're talking about the drafting of the local police law because you're rejecting those agreements or negotiations that have been reached. Another of the issues discussed in their amendments that remain is what has to do with the defence of officials, authorities and public employees, specifically the issue that has to do with the negative administrative silence. They intend to eliminate the regulation of the express resolution on the granting of authorisation. Well, this is not about explaining what administrative silence is, but it is obvious that the Administration must resolve expressly. You intend to remove the possibility, or such regulation, of the form of administrative silence and simply seek that the Administration will have to resolve expressly. Of course, the Administration has to resolve expressly, but it is considering whether or not the possibility is what happens or what happens when the Administration does not solve or when the Administration does not resolve within the deadline. So what's going on? She'll be deemed to be rejected. You don't like it, but, look, if that request for authorization is considered to be estimated in certain cases, in particular when the need for defence arises from aggression to teaching staff, to health personnel. Not in the rest of the cases. Why? Because we understand that it would represent the possibility of granting permission, granting a silent defence, to a person who could have acted against the public interest. If we take into account that you reject the negative administrative silence and consider that it must be positive, and at the same time suggest that the authorization should not be revoked, as the Socialist Party has proposed, because the scenario presented to us is that the possibility that a defence to an official or an employee who has at best acted against the general interest may be authorised by silence, and it turns out that there is neither the possibility to revoke it, even as the Socialist Party has suggested, if it turns out that during the procedure it is believed that the necessary conditions for granting that authorization are not given. Well, the Joint Group also suggests that the authorisation – although not referred to above – is not denied, it is an amendment that keeps – when the staff or official acts in compliance with orders that constitute clear or conclusive infringement of the law. It cannot be accepted because, of course, proper obedience must have a limit, which is precisely in those orders which are clearly clear and conclusively contrary to an infringement. We therefore believe that the official must always be defended, except when the order requires a manifest, clear and terminating violation of law that the official may refuse to comply without incurring criminal offense. As for the abolition of chapters IV and V, of the organization of the General Legal Counsel and of the lawyers, which the Joint Group proposes, well, we understand that there are organizational and access issues to the scale of letters that must be collected in this law, and of course we believe that the formula for access to the body of letters is the correct one. Of course we don't share the proposal from the Nationalist Block in Wales. As for the organizational structure of the General Legal Counsel, we understand that territorial judicial offices should be considered. We know that the PSOE questions, by its frontal opposition, territorial delegations, and we do not share with the BNG the idea of creating a specific legal cabinet for the autonomous public sector entities because we understand that this is an unoperational proposal if it aims to give specialized assistance and so that the connection of matters is thematic and not dependent on whether it comes from the General Administration or an entity. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the importance of this law, I regret that you have made no reference to what this law represents in the fight against corruption. This is one of the aspects of the law that have been strengthened by the amendments of the People's Group, aimed at increasing advisory powers in the internal control of the Union. We have incorporated the coordinating function of the General Legal Counsel in communications between the autonomic public sector and the Advisory Council with regard to the preceptive dictates which should be analysed and reported on the doctrine they contain. We also consider it essential that the Council participate in the development of risk prevention plans for corruption, and that it report on its adequacy to the requirements or requirements of the Criminal Code so as not to incur liability. And we also incorporate – very important to our understanding – the amendments to Law 14/2013, aimed at avoiding links between the invited companies in the negotiated procedures, corresponding to the General Legal Counsel notifying the infringements it detects in the field of competition law, coordinating the development and revision of guidance guides for contracting bodies, so as to ensure the incorporation of environmental, social, gender equality criteria, and even the accessibility of small businesses, and models of requirements of administrative clauses to homogenise contractual practice and achieve greater effectiveness. If this law was originally intended to increase control over the Government and its administration, it is clear that the amendments of the People's Group that they have done were to further increase the control and control mechanisms against corruption and improve the quality of legislation, which are very important to us to understand that I am sorry that you have not referred to them. Ladies and gentlemen, the text which is put to the vote actually has 41 additional articles and 4 additional provisions. Of these 41 articles, 18 received no amendment from the opposition; in 12 additional articles and 3 provisions their proposals were integrated into the final drafting. They were incorporated directly or through a transaction almost 30% of the opposition's demands, and it could be said that 75% of the law articulate counts with the conformity of the rest of the groups. In the particular case of AGE, all its amendments were incorporated or traded, with the exception of two. Among those incorporated, it is found that it affects the first additional provision on the use of the English language, a question on which other groups maintain their amendments. It should be pointed out at this point that this law raises the legal status of the provisions of the Regulation of the Legal Counsel, which was actually adopted in 2003. But this regulation was reformed by the two-party government in 2006 and they haven't changed a comma in terms of language regulation, so we're asked to take one step further where you didn't give it when you had the chance. And you, with your amendments, intend to do compulsory what in principle the law does not impose as an obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u47	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u48	I'm done, ladies. I just want to emphasize that this group will obviously support this law. We understand that it's a good law, a law that affects the greatest defence of citizens' interests, and what we hope is that they will reconsider it, and that this abstention they announced would become a favorable vote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u49	Thank you, Mrs Barreira. The turn of the parliamentary groups to define the amendments that have been maintained by the other groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u50	Well, thank you, President. We agree with the amendments that have been accepted, but we have one that has been accepted and we do not agree with, and we would like to vote against – in particular, amendment 14 of the Socialist Party – because the text of the bill establishes a ten-year professional experience for recognized prestigious jurists who want to access the title of the General Directorate of General Legal Counsel and the amendment of the Socialist Party raises that experience to fifteen years. We understand that it is already established that they must be jurists of recognized prestige, which guarantees, in our understanding, sufficient professional capacity and experience. In addition, the exercise for ten years of any profession guarantees sufficient additional experience to prestige, so we understand that it is not necessary to increase it in five more years. In view of the fact that a career of law, like a very early one, ends at 23 or 24 years of age, in addition to the need for a ten-year experience, we are already talking about adult staff with many years of experience and that can perfectly occupy that position of responsibility within the administration with ten years of experience. We will also call for a separate vote on Amendments Nos 16, 17 and 19 of the Socialist Party, because we believe that the existence of territorial judicial offices can be essential in the fight against corruption and prevention. I would like to refer in particular to Amendment No 23 of the Socialist Party, which gave rise to the compromise text, and that, although we require the abolition of Chapter IV and Chapter V of the subject matter of negotiation with the legal representation of workers and public workers, the transaction collects, at least, that when the application of this law has an impact on the working conditions of the staff, it will negotiate these conditions with the trade unions, in accordance with the provisions of that law. We therefore consider that it clearly improves what is established in the original project, and therefore it seems to us that this transaction is admissible. But we also consider, and I repeat again, that we are again in what he said in the previous intervention, in the face of a clear violation of the right to collective bargaining. It's a serious ejacism, it's a serious, anti-democratic decision, and we insist again that the rights of collective representation cannot be denied to workers and public workers, their right to collective bargaining and their right to their conditions to be always negotiated with their union representation. We shall vote in favour of the rest of the amendments tabled by the opposition and which have been rejected. I'd like to make, at the last minute that I have left, a reference to the negative or positive administrative silence, because it was the spokesperson of the People's Party who could be given legal assistance to some people who acted against the public interest. And I'm telling you that you can deny legal aid to some people who have not acted against public interests but who have acted in defence of public interests and are now subject to the fact that you are not granted such assistance. That's why the refusal of such legal aid must be made in writing, justified. It is far more important for me to count on the presumption of innocence and to say that the official or official is entitled to assistance because he is accused of his innocence, and not to start, as part of the People's Party, that, as they are allegedly guilty, the best thing is to deny them administratively assistance. So we understand that defense in the opposite direction. I'd like you to reflect, because you're always the first, when it comes to corruption by the People's Party, to call the presumption of innocence. I call on you to consider the presumption of innocence of workers and public workers. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u52	Well, as we said, with regard to the amendments of the opposition groups, we're going to support them, because, although logically there are nuances, we understand that for what we are here is precisely to strengthen against the decisions that most of us take, which adopts the majority group of the People's Party. We have logical nuances, but we understand that the end unites us, ultimately, and above all in fundamental aspects that have to do with the character of self-sustainment, with the character of trying to reduce aspects that could favor discretion or arbitrary behavior. We also understand the amendments of the Joint Group that asked to delete the chapters that directly affected aspects related to the collective bargaining of workers, and logically several amendments and aspects commented on by the Socialist Party, especially in the aspect of revocation, of rates; and of the territorial structure even if we could talk. I mean, basically we all agree that what we have to do is that the defense of the public administration's workers through the General Legal Counsel is as secure as possible and that any vestige of arbitrariness, any possible violation. And we understand, contrary to what the People's Party's spokesman understands, that negative administrative silence is not a defense of the rights of workers and workers. On the contrary, we are not going to repeat ourselves in the arguments, which are still known, they have already been exposed here on certain occasions and in different interventions with regard to other bills. And, therefore, from our side, we will support the amendments to the opposition and reaffirm our abstention from today's text. We continue to insist that the maintenance of silence, not explicitly resolve defence requests when denied, because logically it prevents the full realization of the right of workers and workers to be defended when their rights are in danger. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. I will not repeat debates that we have already raised on three or four occasions in connection with the specific articulation of the bill. And the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group reiterates that no progress or consensus has been made enough for us to be able to change our vote in the fundamental aspects I have explained earlier. We announce that we will vote in favour of the amendments made by the other parliamentary groups. And, of course, let me finish my speech by reflecting on Mrs. Rodríguez's intervention. We all remember that this bill, which is going to be passed on on a definitive basis today, culminated in those five measures in fifty days – which in the end were a little more than fifty days – that Mr.Núñez Feijóo announced to us in that extraordinary January 2015 month to fight corruption in our country. Of course, what I used to describe as the "Roeda legislative faction" can also be extended to the "Fiedo legislative faction." And in the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we're still waiting for some strong measure that really works to fight corruption. Because really in this bill that we passed today, including the amendments made by the People's Group in relation to the procurement procedures, man!, it would only be missing, one of the things that you amend is that in the procurement procedures you cannot invite companies that are actually the same company; man!, the truth is that it is a bit of a joke – and forgive the expression – Mrs. Rodríguez. Actually, the only measure that changes something in this bill is what we said earlier, which side by side might have to do with corruption, which is the subject of the legal defense of public employees and the offices of the Galician Union. But no other measure, but neither in this law nor in any of the others that have been referred to this Parliament. It has been created theoretically by taking a proposal from the former superior prosecutor to create a corruption prevention commission, you pervert that proposal and end up commending it to the Board of Auditors, without more means, without more faculties, without more staff, without more technicians, without more experts, theoretically, the ability to prevent corruption and to set the necessary precautions to avoid corrupt practices. Of course, what I can say is that today, if, indeed, as Mr. Rueda told us when he introduced us this bill, the actions of the Galician Union against corruption, what we can say today from the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Rodríguez, are that you – as everyone knows – are not the champions of the fight against corruption; you, in any case, are and are still the champions of corruption. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u56	Thank you, President. Well, as this shift is solely for the amendments of the other parliamentary groups – and as we say in the Commission 1st on its day – the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of all the amendments proposed by the other opposition groups – so we have done it in committee and today we will do it exactly the same – and we will also vote in favour of Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the People's Parliamentary Group. We are not going to vote in favour, therefore, we are going to vote against Amendments Nos 5 and 6 to this People's Parliamentary Group, because they are amendments that refer expressly to the 2013 Law on the Rationalization of the Autonomic Public Sector, which we reject in front of us, and therefore we cannot accept a development of a law that we initially do not accept. We maintain our abstention in the final vote of the dictatorship, because the arguments used by the spokesperson of the People's Party when he went up this stage do not convince us; there was no dialogue to accept two amendments, and trading four of twenty-four we understand that it's not too much dialogue. Because you have no intention of sinking into the improvement of the General Legal Counsel of the Autonomous Community. If so, they would call for a new public offer to increase their staff, which is really what they ask for and what they need. And that you in no way intend to enhance the use of Greek in Justice. In any case, look after us as if we were a mother or a hen taking care of her little ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, with regard to the amendments put forward by the other groups – and not to insist on the already said – simply highlight, within the framework of the collective negotiation that invokes AGE, which, well, obviously, was incorporated – as we have already said – into the text a transaction with the Socialist Party in the sense of – I insist – that it is not the law that has to be the object of collective negotiation, but that they are, well, because the subsequent developments, to the extent that they affect the working conditions of the workers. And as far as the negative administrative silence is concerned, which now suggests that it is possible for the administrative silence to affect to the extent that, well, it is considered negative for a worker who has not acted against the general interest, well, but for that reason – and you have to know – the law provides for mechanisms so that the workers can come to another type of defense and then have an impact – on the assumption that they give them reason or are absolved – those costs to the administration itself. So when you say that administrative silence is not in the defense of workers and officials, it is the administrative silence in the defence of officials. It's a mechanism not to be indefinitely waiting for the Administration to solve; what Larra said: to cut off the Administration with "you come back tomorrow." Well, of course, the Administration has an obligation to resolve. When someone used to say here: no, it's just that you have to resolve expressly, of course! But if the Administration does not issue such a resolution, or does not do so within the specified time limit, it is a right for officials to consider their request to be deemed or dismissed, in this case – as I already refer – in the case of timely estimates and generally rejected. And with regard to the BNG, which refers to the approval of those fifty measures in fifty days, well, I believe that you do not really refuse the bulk of this law, because, if one of the only reasons for opposition they have or criticism is that we were beyond fifty days in the adoption of these measures, because it is obvious that the measures should seem right to you. As for the fight against corruption, which says Mrs Peace that, well, we incorporate that prohibition that companies may be invited into the negotiated procedure that are linked to each other, man!, I want to remind you – and I do not like to make use of these local issues – but where the BNG governs it would well have been that this rule had been approved earlier! Because I can tell you that in some council that I know well it would be of great help that in negotiated procedures there had existed before now the prohibition of inviting related companies. Having said all this, ladies and gentlemen, we – and we are not going to insist on these issues – do not agree and do not support, do not share the amendments that you support. In any case, I'd like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we live at a time when in other autonomys they are based on debates in which messages of disobedience abound to legality even by those who are obliged to guarantee their compliance. The Italian Government, however, has chosen to strengthen autonomy, to give it a new democratic impulse, to control the institutions, to strengthen internal control of administrative activity, and to improve the regulatory quality, ultimately, by ensuring that its actions are subject to the legality and defence of public interest. We regret that these issues that are incorporated into this law, this reinforcement of the administration's legal services, of the Galician Union, do not find a positive assessment on their part. The fact is that the law that is under consideration strengthens these services for greater control of legality, transparency and the fight against corruption. It's about ensuring a greater defence of public interests and a greater legal quality in administrative action, which will undoubtedly have an impact on a greater defence of the interests and rights of citizens. As we said, we do not share the amendments that they maintain, and for that reason, well, because we invite them still at this point to reconsider their support for this law, which we consider very important in improving the legal quality and quality of the administrative performance of the Council of Galicia and its administration. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u60	We shall vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote on the amendments to the whole refund submitted to the Bill and amend Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 for the coordination of local police. And we started by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting the amendment to the full refund submitted by the G.P. Joint Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 7; against, 55; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment to the entire Joint Group is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u61	We are now voting on the amendment to the entire Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Voting the amendment to the full refund submitted by the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative to the Bill amending Law 4/2007 of 20 April 2007 on the coordination of local police The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 8; against, 55; abstentions, 5. The result of the vote is negative. This amendment is therefore rejected as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u62	We are now voting on the ruling drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, and on amendments to the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. We begin by voting on amendments from the Joint Parliamentary Group, in particular Amendments 1, 3 to 9 and 13 to 20. We vote. Vote on Amendments Nos 1, 3 to 9 and 13 to 20 submitted by the G.P. Draft Law on the Management of Legal Assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 39; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u63	We are now voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, in particular Amendments 2 and 4. We vote. Vote on Amendments Nos 2 and 4 tabled by the G.P. on the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 39; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u64	We are now voting on amendments by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, in particular Amendments Nos 2, 3, 5, 6 to 8 and 13. We vote. Voting Amendments 2, 3, 5, 6 to 8 and 13 tabled by the G.P. by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 13; against, 39; abstentions, 16. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u65	Voting amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in particular Amendments 1 to 4, 6 to 12, 15 to 19, 22 to 24. And there is a separate motion for a vote by the Joint Parliamentary Group, in particular Amendments Nos 14, 16, 17 and 19. First of all, we are voting on amendments from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Yeah, sorry? [[Mrs. Martínez García asks for the floor.]] Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In particular, it calls on the Joint Group to vote separately on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group Nos 16, 17 and 19. We therefore vote these three amendments. Votes for Amendments 16, 17 and 19 G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to the Ditam, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 26 votes against, 42. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u66	We now vote for the rest of the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia, except for 16, 17 and 19, to the dictatorship, drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Interior, of the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 29; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u67	We now vote for the committee's ruling. Voting of the Ditame drawn up by Commission 1st, Institutional, General Administration, Justice and Internal Affairs on the draft law on the management of legal assistance of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and its public sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. This measure is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u68	Open the doors, please. We move on to the second item on the agenda, which corresponds to the full appearance. Comparison of Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to introduce the Sergas 2020 Strategy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u69	That's what the Health Counsellor has to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u70	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens users and patients are our reason for being. Our work becomes meaningful when we are able to contribute to the maintenance and improvement of their health and quality of life from before birth to the moment it ends. For the Greek Government, the public health system is one of the basic pillars of the welfare state. As such, it must adhere to the basic principles of universality, equity, solidarity and public security, and contribute significantly to redistributive justice and social and territorial cohesion. Its functioning is of great transcendence to each person and also to the whole of society. According to the health barometer, health is for 37% of the Greeks an area of greater interest, only surpassed by work, 40%. As for the opinion on the general functioning of the health system, it highlights the fact that the vast majority of respondents, 73.2%, believe that it is good, or rather good, above the global valuation in Spain, which is 62.7%. Even if the rating is good, we don't comply. Health systems need to be continuously, continuously, tailored to needs and innovative. During the last years, we have introduced relevant innovative improvements in the management, organisation and operation of the health system, with measures such as integrated management, process management, protocolization of priority criteria in the management of waiting lists, deployment of rapid pathways, safety and quality programmes or the promotion of the proper use of pharmacotherapeutic resources, among others. For the present and for the future, we continue to bet on the system by an innovative, proactive, participatory, flexible, sustainable and humanized model. With this philosophy we have developed the work that has led to the Sergas 2020 Strategy. His reason for being can't be anything but to want to improve the health of Greek citizenship. In addition to its content and objectives, it is of the utmost importance that we budget for the public health system. It should be noted that the total estimate for 2020 amounts to more than EUR 17,179 million. We're talking about 40% of the board budget set in Galicia, and we think there's no better evidence of this government's commitment to the public health system. Through this plan we seek to establish innovative strategic guidelines and lines that contribute to addressing the challenges identified in its organization and in its functioning. There are many of the challenges we have on the table: new care realities, increased life expectancy and its consequences, taking on the cost of health services due to the emergence of new and expensive drugs, new technologies, and, above all, we must respond to the needs of an increasingly demanding citizenry. Finally, the health system must be able to adapt to a constantly changing environment and to the new role that patients and citizens play in the interaction with health services. We have much more active citizens, better trained and informed and with greater choice capacity. In most of them they want to be more protagonists in their health, hence the importance of pushing actions aimed at generating more active and expert patients in their own care, given their demand and concerns. Today, the health service user clearly demands that these services meet their needs and want guarantees of comprehensive, ongoing and personalized care. Therefore, we had to be able to definitively involve the patient actively in the definition, design and prioritization of the actions and measures to be implemented for the achievement of these purposes; in short, making our organization a more efficient system in achieving its main goal: raising the health level of Greek citizenship. It's not a minor challenge. Our roadmap to continue the modernization of the health system is its adaptation to the current and future needs of patients and citizens and the Health Plan, made up of two documents: the Priority Plan, whose renewal we presented in September 2014, and the Sergas Strategy, which we now present. It's about the system being able to evolve to respond to a society, as we say, changing. How was the process of developing this Strategy? Clearly, any organization of the complexity of the Galician Health Service needs to have a good definition of its strategy. The first thing I want to explain briefly is how this process of elaboration was. To develop the new planning of Galicia's public health system towards the years 2015-2020, we wanted to count on the perception and opinion of users, as I previously pointed out, but also with professionals and other agents involved in it. We plan it as a process of everyone and for all, together, of accessibility and proximity and listen active to everyone: the patient, the doctor, the locker, the nurse, the manager, the companies in the sector, the students of health professions, the universities. They all count, they're all good. In other words, it was about working with a shared and participatory vision, which I am convinced it was achieved. Initially, we carried out an online process to identify the aspects or topics they considered should be prioritized in the construction of the new Sergas 2020 Strategy. Five group meetings were then held in which students from Medicine and Nursing, the Council and Sergas Advisory Council, members of the Parliamentary Health Commission, trade unions and representatives of technological information and communication companies were invited to attend. The results of the online process have been reviewed in these sessions. It should be noted that 2,248 professionals, 168 patient entities and associations and 644 stakeholders participated in the process as a whole: companies, experts, trade unions, political parties, etc., turning to 2,004 proposals for action, from which he subsequently asked participants to prioritize with a peer-choice system. We have also taken into account an analysis of the strategies of national and international bodies, including the review and incorporation of good practices and interventions that are under way in different countries and health services and existing scientific thinking. We include the use of Murray WHO model on basic goals of any health system: the general goals of the health system, an analysis of complaints and user suggestions, the review of the health barometer, the Strategic Plan of June 2020 and the previous Sergas strategy 2014, and the results of its assessment, presented at its time in this Parliament. We understand that with this procedure we covered several objectives: on the one hand, we managed to generate the shared vision that we had previously commented on; we wanted to identify the priorities of the main stakeholders in the organization, professionals, managers, patients, companies, social partners, etc., to approach a joint vision of the different agents involved in Sergas. On the other hand, establish a line of continuity with the Sergas 2014 strategy, including the results of its evaluation. In addition, we include the current strategic thinking of health systems, as well as the main experiences of the different health services around us. The challenges. From the different approaches and data analyzed at last, we identified the challenges and suggestions that we had to assume for the 2020 Strategy of the Galician Health Service; challenges that we can convert into opportunities. We could group them into ten challenges: The first is to set innovative guidelines and strategic lines that help solve the most important organizational difficulties. The second is to increase the efficiency of the system to assume the increase in the cost of health services for different reasons: more expensive drugs, an increase in population survival, new health technologies and a citizenship with a higher level of demand than demand for increased health investments and which considers that health is a priority in other areas. Third, take good care of the professionals so they can feel part of their organization. It's about valuing these magnificent professions and giving them much more importance to the development of professional excellence. Fourthly, to improve the continuity of care, in addition to encouraging joint work between levels of care or between professionals. Integral care in processes makes patient care possible at a higher level, while improving delays. Fifthly, to improve communication with professionals and with citizenship to achieve the highest credibility of system officials. Sixth, strengthen the standardization and homogeneity of clinical practice to reduce its variability and not compromise the quality of care at any time. Seventh, strengthen organizational and management criteria, so that they are homogeneous and consistent with the objectives of the organization. Eighth, organize services according to the objective needs of patients. Nineteen, develop information systems that allow evaluation and decision-making. And finally, tenth of all, sign resources according to health outcomes. It is necessary to allocate resources according to the needs of patients and to recognize good management also through the redistribution of resources. With all this information and to meet these challenges, the main axes, as well as the associated strategic targets and indicators, were defined. Once these indicators are defined, an analysis of their situation was made to determine the strategic lines needed to achieve the defined targets. From that point on, along with Sergas' management units, the objectives to be achieved in the period 2016-2020, also incorporating those we will continue in the Strategy of 2014. So we've defined four strategic axes and twenty targets that we set ourselves up to 2020. The strategic axes are as follows: integral care adapted to the needs of patients, family members and caregivers; professionals committed and cared for by the organization; axis three, efficient management that contributes to the sustainability of the health system; and fourth, a cross-sectional strategic axis, which is adapting infrastructures to health equipment and information systems to the needs of patients and citizens. These four axes revolve around our main goal: to improve the health of citizens and improve their quality of life. Patients, citizens and users place their trust in us so we can provide them with personalized assistance with the best technology and quality, and in a safe, efficient and effective way. To that end, we count on the involvement, work and commitment of the excellent professionals, organized into structures that facilitate and guarantee their good work. Professionals, in turn, usually approach an individual quality perspective to their clinical practice. His legitimate claim is nothing but to do the right thing precisely. For our band, the Health Administration has a more comprehensive and community-based perspective, requiring adequate technical performance and interpersonal treatment that are satisfactory to patients, and that their consequences be the improvement in the level of health of the community. Strategic lines and projects. Artichokes around these four axes were defined as 20 strategic lines. Without the courage to be exhaustive, I'm going to detail them, because I understand that their importance and transcendence to the health system and to the Greek society in general so justify it. Included in axis 1, integral care adapted to the needs of users, patients, family members and caregivers, we have the following objectives or strategic lines: to develop interventions to promote health and prevent disease with an integral vision; to improve consideration and accessibility in providing services; to guide the provision structure of services to patients' needs; to care for chronicity; to advance patient empowerment; to increase the feeling of ownership and responsibility of citizens over the Galician Health Service; to promote knowledge management, research and improve the reliability of services; to reduce their variability and improve their coordination. In axis 2, focusing on professionals committed and cared for by the organization, we have six objectives, which are: to promote communication with professionals, users and society; to strengthen the credibility of system managers; to strengthen the responsibility and capacity of managers and middle management of the organization; to care for good professionals from when they enter the organization; to enhance the versatility and versatility of professionals in the system; and to involve professionals as a basic criterion in the development and management of the organization. In axis 3, which looks for efficient management that contributes to the sustainability of the health system, we include four objectives: using new resource allocation models to improve the equity of access to services; setting measures to improve the system's efficiency to ensure its sustainability; being a fundamental pillar of Galicia's sustainable development; being a reference to Galicia's social and corporate responsibility; and involving all social agents in projects. Finally, we have axis 4, as we said, a cross-sectional axis, which is to adapt infrastructures to health equipment and information systems to the needs of patients and citizens. We consider it an axis, as I said earlier, transversal, as it facilitates the development of the other three and contemplates three specific objectives: optimizing information systems; prioritizing and ensuring the implementation of technological innovations that have been positively evaluated; and adapting installations and equipment to the needs of users and workers. Thus, these twenty objectives contemplated in the four axes will be achieved through 123 specific projects – some of which I have just mentioned in detail – of which 66 are implemented as new challenges of the organization and the remaining 57 consolidate initiatives launched with the previous Sergas Strategy 2014. So there will be, as otherwise, new things, but, as happens in any solid and consolidated system, the continuity of what has been proved to work well. In the Next Presentation Strategy document you will have access to these projects. In any case, it's about improving to offer all the Greeks, real owners of the public health system, a health service that is increasingly tailored to their needs, with the most advanced technologies and at the same time with the best use of resources. Nothing else at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u71	Thank you very much, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u72	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I don't know what to do after listening to him because he didn't really say anything; he didn't tell anything at all. Then, in the end, he said we'd be given a document with the development. Well, that seems like something better, because you come here and tell us a movie, but based on nothing. To start with what we're talking about is challenges as concrete as innovative guidelines, to increase efficiency, to improve the care of professionals and professionals... what is that?, a letter to the Magi?, a lot of wishes? I don't think it's serious to come here at this meeting with this really. You've come with generalities that don't specify anything, nothing, nothing. Then he told us about four axes: integral care of patients, families and caregivers – that's where the idea came from – professionals careful by the system – he doesn't tell us how, but well, it's time for the system and administration to start lending a little bit of respect to workers and public health workers –; system sustainability and infrastructure adequacy. He didn't explain much more about it either. And then some strategic lines as ambiguous as everything he said before: innovation, installation repair, new resource allocation models -- that is, nothing at all. But the reality is that we have a health system in Galicia that is being destroyed. Since Mr Feijó's rule, the Welsh health system is increasingly in worse condition and the Greek professionals are increasingly in worse condition and are worse treated by the Administration itself; an administration that has applied a severe reduction in health budgets, has made deep cuts in the staff and in the number of hospital beds and has almost paralyzed, almost destroyed, a true joy of our health care, as was primary care, which is now a primary care destroyed, with waiting lists and that it is unable to solve the immediate health problems of citizenship, and therefore collapse, and more and more hospitals and emergencies. Because you bet on hospital health, not on preventive health; a health that can save, of course, a lot of money and that can also increase the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. A decommissioned health system. First, a reduction of 30.4% of the public spending of the autonomous communities, and within these Galicia is the one that made the biggest cut in all communities, and the biggest one was in primary care; personnel cuts, which comes to Galicia, are 24.5 below the state average in this health expenditure. Galicia lost 1,795 public health squares, eliminated 513 medical personnel squares, 392 in primary care and 121 in hospitals; 184 hospital nursing personnel squares; 1,121 non-sanitary personnel squares that you indecently gave to private companies for their exploitation. An indisputable job precariousness that overcomes me I believe that even labour exploitation in the recruitment of private entities. You guys have a pull list, which is the biggest undo that could be done at the contractual level. It's Sergas' ETT; a wild ETT; an ETT which neither contemplates the reconciliation of people's working and family life nor contemplates people's rights, which puts potential staff under real stress under the consequent threats, the options offered to them are rejected and are often contracts for hours to kilometres of their home. It happens that Vigo people are called to work in the Guard for a four-hour or three-hour day, and they have to go. But there'll probably be staff in the Guard who's in his house and belongs to that list as well. There is also talk about the obscurantism with which that recruitment list is handled. And you're very much going to treat and look after professionals, but when we get into the middle of staff problems, you didn't even make a single reference to the staff situation. We can also talk about the privatization of hospitals like Álvaro Cunqueiro, privatized, a privatized hospital; also a model of public-private collaboration we've already talked about, which has increased the cost of this hospital terribly. Services like surgeons or ICUs have been closed... We're not going to talk more about Vigo's new hospital; a private hospital that came to replace a public hospital and that only another private hospital, Povervisa, who set his boots in the face of the disaster of Álvaro Cunqueiro. The vicars and the vicars ran away from that mess that you've put together. Not a single reference to that situation either. Now we had, after many scandals, another more scandal, another bacteria that sent four patients to ICU. The patient's valet asked the prosecutor's office to open an investigation on its own, and its president recalls that these bacteria are avoidable if the necessary measures are taken, and that there may be a legal responsibility here for those who have not taken these measures. Privatization of Galicia's central laboratory, the continuation of the private company Galaria, which already the Board of Auditors itself gave the alarm voice on the operation of Galaria. You don't say what's going to happen to Galaria either. I'd like to know in that 2020 Strategic Plan what's going to happen with Galaria, if we're going to continue to be the Greeks and the galarias to which we are most resonated and more TACs across the state. The privatization of high technology through that figure of the tech partner, which you are praising and which allows the same companies that manufacture these technologies to be later those that exploit them, and all that, of course, paid for a public health that will have to pay the price that they made. Privatization of research through biomedical institutes of public hospitals; a staff Miguel Servet who has been asking for stability for years. It can't be said that the Government is going to bet on research and innovation when it's precisely the investigator's personal what is in the most precarious situation, unable to maintain research, because you, of course, don't support this staff, don't give it a continuity so that you can assume medium- and long-term research projects. A Welsh health knowledge management agency that does not respond to the needs of biomedical research and health knowledge, so it was rejected unanimously by trade union organizations, which you did not say, and rejected both at the Sergas Bureau in November 2014, as well as at the General Negotiation Bureau in June 2015. An agency that doesn't meet any demands. But also – it ends time – outsourcing and privatization of strategic resources and services to multinational companies and investment funds, such as, for example, ambulance services to the UTE Ambolevante; electronic clinical history; telecommunications, telephonic transfer, to Box, BBV, Bankia; electronic platform, Netaccesse; the prior quote phone, also Netaccesse; the supply and logistics service, which has been delivered to the company Severiano Mobile Service, which kept the clinical stories of Chop; the maintenance of health equipment, also privatized with Iberica de Maintenance, which is from Zaragoza, because, of course, we also do not look for Galician companies – the management of cleaning and energy... We can continue to talk about everything you have privatized: the catering services, the radiological protection services, the sterilization of medical tools and the sterilization of medical tools... [[Ianus]] I mean, did you come here today to tell us what? You haven't told us anything, you've seen here not concrete, say very loud words, with a lot of repercussions, which seems to say great things, but you haven't given either one, or just one of the problems of Greek health right now, or one of them. Therefore, I am afraid that by 2020, if you continue to rule, we will continue in the same situation as today, with a precarious health. I hope you, in your next intervention, really clarify how you will address these specific public health problems, to see if we can understand what you intend to say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u74	Thank you, President. Well, good morning, Counselor. I think, by a matter of – let's say – operativity, it would be productive that when you come to present a plan, a strategy, as is the case, we could get to know it in writing before, because what doesn't make much sense is that you're coming to read us a diagram of something that's going to publish in a few days. It's normal that this plan should be presented to the House before, because what was done in the evaluation of the previous plan was presented publicly and then brought it here; that's wrong. But what's not normal is that we don't have it. And I really thought you were going to tell us what they were going to do, and really just read us the diagram – I imagine – of what we can read when it's published, which is why the work axes, the strategic lines, that we already know how it works more or less by the previous plan. And it also shocks quite, because you yourself came up in December to tell us that this plan was going to be published imminently. We're at the end of March, you're the only one who can bring us here today is the chart, and without explaining how all this is going to be done. I don't know if you're going to tell it all supersumed in your second intervention, but the truth is, it's a rather regrettable appearance -- I'm telling you -- with all the problems of the Health Council and public health in our country. You have also lowered the number of millions – as if you could say any figure, we can invent it. Mr. Feijóo said a few days ago 20 billion euros for the plan Sergas 2020; today you say 17,000; well, 3,000 above, 3,000 below, it seems the same. But they're really not going to invest anything at all, because one could end up thinking that you've thought about increasing the resources for health. The result is that, if we see the count, what they're talking about is the sum of the budgets they expect to exist – because they don't know – for the coming years more what is already – let's say – approved for this year that's in effect and that's already finished by 2015. I don't really understand what it is, whether they're trying to fool us or what they're trying to move, because there really is no budget plus, so it translates into these 17 billion euros. And it's a little embarrassing that you're telling us about that money when it's significantly reduced the overall budget of the entire Galician Union in more than 2,000 million euros since Mr Feijóo is here, but especially in health care. We've talked about it on other occasions. I wonder where those investments will come from when we accumulate a debt of more than 10 billion euros in the Autonomous Community, right? I wonder where they're going to get that money for these supposed innovations when we accumulate those cuts that go beyond, well, that go around the cuts about 400 million euros in recent years. Precisely, you probably were talking about spending, and you have to go back to managing it; that is, we can understand, by the budgetary restrictions that come to us above, that what you've been thinking is to commit new cuts, when today exactly the 2016 report of the Federation of Public Health Associations, where Galicia is within the ranking of the communities that most privatizations have happened because in the last year in which there is data, and concerning the data available from OECD. Of course, of course, because privatization is closely related to those budget cuts. It must be said that you also privatize many, privatize or compromise budgets, too, with such public-private partnerships. We also spoke about it because the new hospital in Vigo and, as was said in the past full, the Economic and Social Council itself warned us that the health budget was in danger for the years ahead, because you owed us 20 years just to pay for a hospital. We also talked about it during the budgetary debate, didn't we? That you compromised the budget for 20 years. I could talk to you about that. How do you plan a new strategy when we have a commitment budget? We don't know that we're going to be able to supply the minimum in health if we continue to keep that private hospital, which means, moreover, because some very high interest and commitment, because you decided that you wanted a private hospital in Vigo, a hospital that is also a totally poor hospital. You were talking about the importance of health care, but you talked about something very important: care for good professionals. I'd like you to tell us what the good and the bad are, and if the bad are those who protest about professional cuts, almost 2,000 in all the Greek public health. We've said that, we'll talk about that when we talk about the public job offer. Well, as Vigo now threatens them and they're already starting to get to the workers and workers who put posters or wear posters in their clothes protesting precisely by those professional cuts, I want you to tell me, within those twenty strategic lines that you've defined, which are the good and bad professionals. I would also like to strengthen the credibility of the manager, and that means that face-washing that you are dealing with, even with profiles on social networks, so to speak well of yourself, because it's a cry for cuts and the destruction of public health, right? if that reinforcement of credibility is based precisely on the autobomb of the council itself. And you talked in addition to strengthening leadership and command. We've talked about it in the budget debate as well as you keep spending on senior positions in the Health Council year after year and how you cut down on staff expenses year after year as well. They only increased a little this year and went to dedicate it to those extra wages that they first cut off to the professionals. I mean, we're doing absolutely the same thing. You were talking about the appearance of new and expensive drugs that you were committed to. The truth is, you have the courage to come here and talk about new and expensive drugs. Not if you want to talk to us today about what they're going to do with this complaint in the prosecutor's office because of the non proportion of hepatitis C treatments at the time, and you could explain why after two years the sick and the sick who reside in the prisons in Galicia are still not receiving those hepatitis C treatments, right? I could explain this and many other things. But besides hepatitis C treatments, I'd like you to tell us, please, if you have the list there, which are these new and expensive drugs. I beg you, because, as you always brag about the use of generics, please, because you have it for good, to inform me of the good and bad professionals and the expensive drugs. And what are these innovative lines going to be, or whether we're going to be constantly investing simply in technological innovations, which we don't know what they're dedicated to, while they progressively cut down because of the maintenance of centers. If this was not health care, it would be even nice for you to talk here about wonderful centers, of modernizing the health system, when we have hundreds of health centers in our country – we are constantly taking them to the Health Commission – in which it rains in, if the radiators are released, there is no suitable material – that is, it is constant – and that recently-drenched centers have a lot of problems, such as that of Vigo, or floods; the Mexeiro continues to flood in Vigo; I'm sorry to talk about it again, but the area is absolutely destroyed. And I could also explain to you here why you're still in closed beds and you're still keeping these transfers to private and why on Holy Week you closed all over, despite the fact that there were only two holidays. And why does this situation continue despite the fact that we have a waiting list that we've already discussed here on other occasions and that we'll talk about later, I think, during the afternoon, in a motion of the Galician Nationalist Block. The truth is, you didn't transfer us here any concrete measures, no budget plus them, or what you're going to do with any of this. I would like these questions that I have just raised in them to be clarified, and also why, despite the cuts in staff in recent years, you pull out a public offers of skyscraper employment and keep temporary contracts with very high precaution, which makes in some hospital services a third of the staff approximately precarious. I don't know if you think this is good health management. I'm not going to talk about improving communication – I've explained it before – the insights to professionals, etc., etc., etc., that, by the way, it's important to remember here that you've practiced on other occasions also when you threatened the professionals – I'm including myself, because I still have organic mail – with the topic of the clinical management areas, which if we didn't join this, because we were going to stay out of our services. I'd like you to use it here today to tell us whether the management areas are going to be discarded or not and why the decree is still in force, when they're going to drop it down. And, well, as you talked about everything at all, because I would obviously like to explain to us what you are going to do in these months that remain with this board, because there are a few months left, your management is relatively recent, it has not involved any kind of improvement; it is more, we continue on the same path, and you know that you have called in Vigo a new demonstration, which we hope is as numerous as December's. You know what happened to your predecessor in office, and I'd like you, before that, in the face of the discomfort of all of us and of all professionals, to clarify whether you're going to do something or whether what you're going to do is bring us diagrams without any measure or budget at all. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u76	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. A new publication. You come here today simply looking for a headline, you can hang up because on Sergas's page and the media because they transfer because the People's Party and its advisor present in Parliament the Sergas Strategy 2015-2020, right?, which, seeing it as it looks something because it really looks a lot of fun, right?, when the reality is that behind that headline is very little, right? In fact, they announced 20 billion euros for this strategy, which for those who don't know the budget kid, for the common of the Greeks and Greeks, it seems that suddenly millions will be raining for the Greek public health, doesn't it? Moreover, as you repeat it – repeat it, the president repeats it, repeats it on the other hand – it seems that it really goes to that communication strategy that has been set in motion that this is already going along the path of recovery, when reality is a simple division. If you divide 20 billion, which has now been taken out of it 3.17 billion, divided into five years from the Sergas Strategy, then how much do you give? Indeed, it gives the sum of the current budgets. That means that it's not even going to increase budgets much either; that's to say, it's simply the maintenance of budgets in health care. Well, we can already have a headline. The forecast is that you're going to keep it, which we're going to lose in the health budget, right? That's what remains behind what you said in this first intervention, which, of course, short, isn't it, Counselor? I'm sorry it's a new missed opportunity to talk about the real situation of Welsh health. I see that you are accompanied by an important part of your team, and I am sorry that among all of you could not come to an intervention where you had talked about the real problems of Greek health, the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, which are many, Mr. Almuína; there are many problems that the Greeks and the Greeks have. And here you make a relationship of plans, strategies, modernizations... issues that, if you had time to go down, would certainly give a lot. Full care for patients and families. I would like to see later, in his next intervention, I realized that it would consist of that integral attention, or that care for professionals, who abuse them day after day. They beat us with an infamous existential overload, treat us with a reduction of indecent staff, treat us – those who are not fixed staff – with contracts – which is now the modality – for hours or contracts per day. And that's when you say they're going to look after professionals, they're going to pee and look after good professionals. I follow up on the question Mrs AGE was asking: we should have a list of the good professionals. And, of course, there would be a list so small that, apart from these, everything else remains, everything else they abuse throughout the year. Of course, I insist that it seems like a missed opportunity. Well, it's true that you've come here so that reality doesn't spoil your headline. You came here not to talk about a strategy that goes in the direction of improving the quality of health for the Greeks and the Greeks, you came here to make a headline. Then don't let reality ruin that headline. It's a missed opportunity to talk about the real health problems in our country, and the real health problems in our country are, for example, emergencies; systematically collapsed emergencies, not by punctual peaks, but by continuous means; hospital emergencies with constant collapses, due to lack of primary care resolution capacity. I'd like you to have at least one line to talk about primary care, Counselor, which you haven't talked about here in this Sergas Strategy. What about primary care? It's an entry door, such a fundamental piar of health care, and it turns out there's no word for primary care. It's due to budget downturn, professional downturn, primary care waiting lists, lack of resolution capacity, patients moving to hospital because they have no response to these waiting lists and lack of professionals in primary care... well, I'd like you to say in that Sergas Strategy which is the place for primary care. Extra-hospital emergencies, ambulances, counsellor, continue to rain complaints that response times are not enough, that isochrons do not respond to the needs of attention. Isochrons are not the right ones, Counselor, and you know it. They're going to have complaints from professionals who have to come to the emergency taxi because it turns out that ambulances are busy. The helicopters, Mr. Counsellor, tell us why since March 18 it turns out that they only last 12 hours instead of at random, as would be normal for a condition assistance. Tell us about those things in your intervention, Counselor. Tell us about the situation of Vigo's new hospital, talk to us in this Sergas Strategy, how it's going to solve the problems of Vigo's new hospital, because they're not solved, Counsellor, they're not solved! Tell us about this bicephalia, that real bipartite installed at the new hospital in Vigo. Yes, that bipartite where, precisely, public health is the one who prays for private health, and where the director, the manager of the company, is the one who commands the manager of Sergas. Well, show me the opposite, Counselor; show me the opposite with data. Or do you think with that law bites, with that instruction that your manager, in the Vigo area, moved from "prohibited protest," "prohibited that there are problems in Vigo hospital" are solved? Problems are not solved by softening professionals, problems are solved by implementing measures, talking to professionals, listening to them, listening to the patients. You did at first an exhibition in which you say they came to this conclusion, to these results of the Sergas Strategy, listening to patients, professionals, I suppose properly selected, not to meet the thousands, both professionals and patients, who have problems in public health. And there are still problems at Vigo's hospital, for example, beginning with sterilization, systematically paralyzing surgeries, Mr. Almuña. I want you to tell me in the second answer how those Vigo hospital problems will start, because, look, I have a real complaint here. You in the previous full told me that I came here with anecdotes, but it turns out that people every day have real anecdotes of how they are treated in public health and what are the problems they encounter. And look, apart from what's going on in the press, Povervisa has to do sterilization for the Cunqueiro Alvaro because autoclaves and so on are destroyed. Here's a complaint from a patient – who gave me permission to say the name, but I'm not going to do it; then, if you want, I'll pay it, even if you have to have it in your services. It turns out that this patient on February 15, 2016 at Álvaro Cunqueiro is down the surgery for a column intervention, a scheduled intervention. Put it down the surgery, it's anesthetized at the surgical table, and it turns out that after anesthesia and lowering the surgery, if it passes through the entire procedure, the operation is suspended theoretically due to the indispossibility of having material for surgical intervention. Ask for explanations. I suppose they'll have given this person an explanation that after she dropped the surgery, if she was anesthetized, if she was at the table, it turns out they had to go back to the plant and then give her another appointment. I can still give you examples. What about mental health, Counselor? There's no line in your Sergas Strategy in five years for mental health? Is there no line for women's specific improvement and attention? Is there no line for FOCs, for attention on abortion issues? Is there no line for any of these issues? What about Lugo, Counselor? There's no line? You're going to tell me that these days, yesterday, an accelerator came into operation that maybe by summer is full performance and that of the other is perhaps the bunker made and that at the end of the same year is operational? And what if with hemodynamics the lumens have to continue to infarction in office hours because they still don't intend to implement it for 24 hours? Tell us about those things, Counselor, because those are the issues that concern the Greeks and the Greeks. And tell me about the waiting lists, Counselor. In the previous plenary session, I spoke to you about the derivations of patients to private health. I insist that you tell me if the lists that Sergas has hung on your website are the real ones...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u77	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u78	...or if there are other waiting lists. You didn't answer me, and you didn't answer me because you know it's a lie, you know that it doesn't match the lists hanging on the website with the real ones, because you on the website has hung that, for example, for the EOXI of Verín-O Barco, there are 3,215 people on the waiting list. That's what's hanging out, when the reality of your lists, the reality of your official list, is that it's 7,859. The reality is that you've hung that the average waiting time is 43 days in that EOXI, and it turns out that the reality of the real lists, the ones that the professionals have, is 153.62 days. That's the reality. With which, I hope you answer all these questions today that I have just told you. And have the courage once and for all to say that they have hidden waiting lists, non-structural lists, which exponentially multiply those that you make public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u80	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen, Counselor. Well, well, well! Look, I don't know if it's my hypoglycaemia, if it's yours, but I didn't understand any of your strategy about strategy. You're the one who came here, making an announcement for the future? Well, the truth is, it doesn't seem very accurate, when what we need is to clarify – and to be able to be right – the present. I don't know if you're trying to hide, because you don't like what's happening, how health is going, and then we're going to cover up the present talking about promises for the future. Or is it perhaps you're already using this House to start the election campaign? The truth is, I don't know. In any case, Counselor, you're not right. It's not right because, look, all we want for the next four years is to work to put back the Welsh public health as it was when you arrived at the board. We need to get back to what you've suppressed, cut, smashed, privatized, and to that end there's only one strategy, Mr. Almuña, and it's to get Mr. Feijóo or the People's Party to stay in front of the board, and that at the Health Council there's neither you nor anyone from the People's Party. Look, most of that citizenship you were talking about, so active and so participatory, all you want to do is lose sight of them over the next four years; you lose sight of them in the state and lose sight of them in Galicia as well. So, if you allow me a tip, in these days – we don't know if it's days, if it's weeks, if it's weeks, if it's months; we don't know, it's another mystery – in this time you can stay, look, you're just going to pack up, because the health management that's going to take place between 2016 and 2020 will not, fortunately, be decided by the People's Party, and you'll have very little to do with what you would do. But it's just that, besides, you're here today, with an apology for the Strategic announcement, what you came to tell us lies. The first, that of universality, that every time I hear it, I have no words, I have no words. But another one is that you started a review, a balance: we're going to rethink what can be improved, we're going to reinforce what we've done well... well, tell us, counselor, in those coming years, what you're going to reinforce and what you're going to rethink. Or do you want me to tell him? Well, look, it looks like they're going to reinforce privatisations and they're going to rethink what else they can destroy. Another lie of this Strategy is that it was developed with the collaboration of external agents. You cited users, professionals, students, unions and even the people we make up the Health Commission. Look, I'm a member of that commission, and I assure you that I didn't cooperate at all. Perhaps you call him to work together to cover an on-line survey on the priorities of a needs, Mr. Almuño, by default for the person who prepared the survey. By the way, tell us, who did it?, a private company? Which one? Who did you choose? How much did it cost? Was it the private company that marked the default needs on which it then had to prioritize citizenship or was it the administration itself? Do you call it that consensuality to citizenship, to professionals and to external agents? Because I don't. Tell us, counsellor: What is the strategy to solve the tremendous situation of primary care, to get out of the system, after the management that you have done during these years? What are they going to do with the health wait? With real waiting, Counselor, with the truth of the waiting lists that so well know and suffer users and that you are committed to hiding continuously. Look, understand; understand, Counselor. You didn't get better waiting, all you did was change the way you measured it. Priority 1 – and I don't get tired of repeating it in this Chamber – did not wait, Mr. Almuña – I'm a health professional, like you – and I didn't wait before or now. The problem we've had before and now we're having is getting to diagnose for sure it's a priority 1. There's the problem, and there's the delay. What about the rest of the priorities? Well, what are you cheating on, they're shortening the first consultation, because it's the one that's measured, but to the detriment of the second and later, that never arrives, Mr. Almuña. And, as you know very well – just like me – because you have worked – I believe – as a health professional, it is precisely in those second consultations where diagnosis is confirmed, the complementary tests are reviewed and treatment is required. Well, that's never enough, Mr. Almuinho. Why? Because it doesn't measure. What about social priorities? Then I'll tell him. What people are crying about is that pensioners, people who aren't active, wait indefinitely for their prosthetic – yes, yes, yes, I could put a lot of examples – even while you're ruining the best other prosthetic before you've put yourself in a chair. It's a cry. Revise, check the complaints, because people write; I don't know if you write ink that gets deleted, but write, Mr. Almuinho. And tell us, what are you going to do with human resources? It's just, the truth, that you're going to have to listen to it here to protect, to take care of professionals. But please, Mr. Almuña! What's the solution? Is that ridiculous, rare, absurd OPE of 800 squares, when you've deleted that number four times? Man, please! Will you continue in 2020, 2050 – I don't know when – with these petty and illegal contracts from Monday to Friday, Counsellor, not to contribute to the weekend, which are further denounced? It's because you owe social security a debt. Are they going to go on like this? Because that's the reality, Mr. Almuinho. Or with these one-time, eight-hour contracts, where the professional has to cover several and different vacancies in different services, and even Mr. Almuña – who are heroes – in different health centers. Is that the protection and affection that you give to professionals and they want to continue giving them until 2020? Man, for fuck's sake! Look, I wonder, Mr Almuña: how can the People's Party come here to assume budget for health when the last Eurostat report – not I say so, not the Socialist Party, does not say so, but the latest Eurostat report published by the European Commission – shows that all major European countries are already investing more in health than Spain? We are 6,1 % of gross domestic product, of GDP, but the European average, Mr Almuña, is 7,2; we occupy the 18th of 31, behind France, Germany, of the United Kingdom. Okay. But we're also going behind the Czech Republic, Slovenia and the neighbouring Portugal, Mr. Almuña, that we're always left alone when we look at the neighbors, because behind Portugal. But it is that in the future it will be even worse, for the report that Mr. Mariano's Government – which I call after what we know when he decided to direct our sexual and reproductive life – sent Europe further cuts that budget, because it will leave it in 5.6 of the gross domestic product. I don't know if that's why this strategy of Strategy, before it was born, had already suffered a cut of EUR 3,000 million, and that's what we're told in the next intervention. And, look, at this point, we've already made it very clear that you're going to focus the Strategy for the next few years on the same thing you've been doing in the past, continuing to privatize. And what I'd like to say is that I've explained to us how they're going to pay for everything already privatized and, very especially, Mr. Almuño, that intolerable barbarity of the new PP hospital in Vigo, private and small, bad that weighs you. You also want to keep wasting – don't get nervous, everyone knows – PP hospital, small and private –. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're planning on continuing to waste European funds by 2020, aren't you? [[Murmurs.]] And how are you going to understand people – these ladies and ladies who get so nervous – that you spend millions and millions of these European funds in you don't know very well that when you buy the Shirings in Chinese and there are daily complaints of babies, of children who are diabetic and who are hurting them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u82	Yes, yes, yes, well, for I am forgiven by the Chinese, but by the Chinese.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u83	Quiet, please. Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u84	Just like they buy mascarillas, gasses, etc., etc. It's not a joke, and you know that, because, besides, that has repercussions, right? because those scars then prevent a proper absorption of insulin. Well, how will you understand that waste while you're still buying those things? Because I don't know what they've spent so many millions on. You tell us about innovative projects – acts of faith –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u86	...innovative projects that are useless. And what is clear is that they are mediated by private and foreign companies. Tell us: How many researchers, how many health professionals and how many good insulin needles could you have market with all that money?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u87	End, end, Mrs. Acuña. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u88	–Finished–. How many pediatricians are there to carry out that program of what you now give a lot and announce a lot of pain in childhood? Look, we're all sensitized by childhood pain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u89	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u90	...the problem is that we don't have pediatricians serving her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u91	It's over, it's over. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u92	And the only strategy – already finished, president –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u93	You have another shift later, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u94	...it's, of course, that you leave and let us work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u95	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Acuña. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. Thank you, first of all, for your presence in this House to present the Sergas 2020 Strategy, which we consider from this group that must be the real engine for the development of Welsh health in the coming years. You see, Counselor, after six months in the Government, that opposition groups are useless; speaking has no cancellations; they speak of everything but the real subject for which we have seen here today, of the Strategy. Yeah, I don't know what the opposition wants me to say, unless it's about Strategy, I don't know what they want me to talk about. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, as you said in an intervention: if he comes to Parliament, because he comes; if he doesn't come, because he doesn't come. The opposition spokespersons in the year 15 were praised when the Councillor’s Strategy Sergas was evaluated, that a public act had been made before the presentation in Parliament, and now it is the reverse. You, however, first of all agree with this House to present the new Strategy 2020, putting the value of the citizens, to whom we represent the Members and Members of this House, but it is not worth them either. Neither you nor this spokesperson, Counselor, will we play the party by jeering the field, that we leave it for others, I certainly don't think. We'll try to inform the Greeks and the Greeks about the Strategy and its importance. Anyway, you'll allow me to answer some things you said to the opposition, although I know you'll do it later, because there are things that are hard to understand. Speaking of staff in Galicia, Medical Writing, March 25 – three days ago – : "The Andalusian doctors are on the pay queue and head in cuts". [[Murmurs.]] And in the group of 20-year-old physicians with trienniums and seniority are Asturian doctors. I think neither in Andalusia nor in Asturias rules the People's Party. Even today, Medical Journal: "Asturias wants to monitor chronic patients at home." You heard what was said in this House Hospital Parliament at the House and other innovative joint projects, so you can see! And, Mrs Solla, you talked about the Federation of Public Health Associations report; it gives me the feeling that you haven't read it at all. In concerts, for example, the Galician Community is number 11 of 17 and these figures include, for example, persons affiliated to Muface, Mugeju. There are a number of factors to citizens' private private insurance policies. There are a number of factors. In concerts, of course, it's number 11 of 17, and it's included in that report. You were also talking about expensive medications, which you don't know what they are. The other day at a conference Vicente Ortun, a health economist, spoke of funding cancer treatments in Spain that cost 2 million euros to keep a year of life; I don't know if that seems cheap to you, eh!And he said, moreover, that he was not a supporter of that; we are not there, eh! And, well, the salaries of the professionals I've already told you, don't I? I don't have to talk to you anymore. From Vigo's floods, I don't know if it refers to those that appeared on social networks, that were eventually of Asturias the images, or those of the obstructions that were there, that the counselor spoke of. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u97	Quiet, please. Mr. Fajardo, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u98	...a clinical management decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u99	No, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u100	...that the decree of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u101	Mr. Fajardo, don't interrupt; if not, I must call him to order. Let's start.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u102	No, I call him in order. You have a call to order. Sure, 'cause, let's go! It's okay. You have a call to order, Mr. Fajardo, and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u103	We hope, Counselor, that the clinical management areas will go ahead. We think it's a breakthrough, we think it's professional, and we think it's a lot of people. Again probably because at this point they are stopped to resume conversations with the agents involved, but we hope they go ahead. [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mrs. Prado talked about the press release and the headlines. And the good professionals, Mrs. Prado, of the system are the great majority, eh! I don't think we agree with that. Well, from the emergencies we've already discussed in committee what's collapsed and what's overloaded, but they don't seem to want to see it. I took to that commission medical cuts of always, but, let's go!, it seems it's only the People's Party's fault. And better, Counselor, don't talk about bipartisans, we bipartisans have had enough already in this Autonomous Community, eh! Of course, Mrs. Acuña, the Strategy I suppose in the future, you're not going to talk about a Strategy in the past, I understand we're going to have to talk about the future, right? [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] They say in the press that those who ask for early elections are you and the AGE group. We, in principle, have no trouble in the elections, it was you. I don't know if with the current situation of your party they're still interested in speeding you up so much or not, that's something you could explain to us as well. [[Murmurs.]] And also to put Portugal as an example of public health, where there have been plenty of people all their lives and have multiplied widely in recent years, it's also an ideal example to talk about. But, well, Counselor, let's get to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We agree with you that the public health system is one of the basic pillars of the welfare state. They would already want other countries in the world to have the system that has Spain, they would want other communities to have the situation that has Galicia. That's why the Greeks and the Greeks – as you said very well – are interested in health care and have a very good view of public health. He said more than 73% in the survey rated the system as good or very good. Citizens are also aware of the important budgetary effort – 40% of the budgets – and are also aware of the work of professionals and professionals in all categories, and so reflect the surveys. Despite the interest in poisoning public opinion by some voices and collectives, despite the apocalyptic catastrophe that we have just heard in this Parliament – at least in this last legislation – I am unable to confuse citizens, who value our health in a very positive way. I can tell you anecdote. The other day I received political students and a 20-year-old girl said that in Galicia in hospitals we had to take the sales and gasses to the hospital, which we didn't put them in. Well, no comment. She said something else, but she won't give me time to tell her. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you're right, Counsellor: you can't conform and you have to put all your efforts to improve management, innovation, citizen participation in decision-making, the sustainability of the health system and the humanization of the model. You quoted a figure that I want to say again: 17 billion euros over the next few years. [[Murmurs.]] In Parliament and on the street, the groups are talking about returning to the figures of the year 9. I want to remind you of the situation in which the joys of these years have taken us, as the Welsh health has remained in unpaid bills, in deficits, in unmade or unfinished infrastructures or not equipped. I think the figures should be back when they're supported by incomes that allow them to keep them. They can't pretend that we fell back into the same pit that triggered the crisis and that fortunately it looks like we're starting to get out. It does not contain with the People's Party, Lords of the Opposition, to return to the deficit; we are not for that or for that. We are very positive – although some voicesmaid seems bad – about the participation of all the plants involved in the development of the Strategy. Everyone collaborated with their approaches to achieving that document, which will complete and expand the goals of the past Sergas Strategy 2014, a document that has to contribute to the maintenance of a public, equitable, supportive and sustainable health system. You explained it: challenges and those. And I think in the challenges we should talk about efficiency. We're talking before expensive drugs. Hepatitis C in one year cost -- you know it better than me -- 75 million euros; if there's no expensive drugs, you'll tell me. The increase in life expectancy, which is the consequence of the improvement of the health system, causes more chronic and polymedicated patients and even pathologies that would not appear to reach that age. The cost of new technologies, which we all know, and the need for citizenship itself, which calls for investments. The world, of course, and technology progresses to a level that a few years ago would seem incredible, and the health system cannot stand aside from these advances of the times, it has to constantly transform and modernize so as not to stay behind. New technologies and social networks are an up-to-date source of information per minute, and we must ensure among all those new technologies are also put to the service of the health of our people, with apps or other mechanisms that allow them to be used for healthy uses and habits of life; or any other tool that allows or can contribute to the improvement of the health of our citizens. I wanted to ask you from here, who comments on me by the professionals, if there is any possibility of implementing a voice system for the computer systems of the queries, because you really spend a lot of time, on occasion, writing on the computer, and I think that even now technologically wouldn't be impossible. The Administration has an obligation to take care of people's health in both aspects: treatment and prevention of disease. But it is also responsible for managing efficiently and maintaining the system's sustainability. In Galicia we are doing this with the collaboration of professionals and citizens, the measures taken by the Government of the Union have been able to maintain a health care highly rated by citizenship, despite the shortage of economic resources that caused the crisis. We have great professionals – more than 36,000 – in the service of the health of Galicians and Greeks, who have had to contribute very hard to the difficult economic situation we have been going through in recent years, with less economics and even sometimes professional ones, but have continued to work, multiplying their efforts and dedication, to the benefit of the health of all citizens. From the People's Parliamentary Group we thank all those workers and workers, and all the citizenship, their collaboration and their efforts. We hope that the strategy will also contribute to maintaining our magnificent public health system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u104	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u105	Good morning again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I came here to talk about my book. I'll then answer the interpellations of the different groups, but I do want to talk about my book. I thank Mr. Núñez for his intervention. May we all be able to remove health from the political debate. I think it would be a great effort all over the world to improve it, because it's the most important asset we have, but unfortunately it's still being used as a weapon lying against the other political groups. I think it's sad, and we should try to change it. But, as I say, I'm here to talk about the 2020 Strategy, which is our challenge. The fundamental challenge is to improve the health of citizenship, to improve the quality of life of all our neighbours, with these 4 strategic axes, 20 strategic lines, 123 projects, of which – as I said before – 66 are new and 57 come from the previous strategy, 2014. What I mean by example, so that you can see – I'm not going to talk about the 123, but rather about a sample – the great scope of actions that we're going to have in the board in the coming years, is that, for example, in strategic line 1, develop interventions to promote health and prevent disease with an integral vision, we're going to value the primary care of the community, doing community intervention and diagnosis programs. The focus on prevailing health problems. Within the infrastructure, exactly seven days ago, it was inaugurated, it began to function, the new Oia health center, a new center in the center of the population, and this very morning we signed the agreement to make the new Salceda de Caselas health center. I think the board's bet is clear, in the coming weeks it will also open the new center of Panxon, in Nigeria, and soon also in Tui, in Pontevedra. In the same strategic line, we talked about developing interventions to promote health and prevent disease with an integral vision, as we said, and one of the projects is expanding the colorectal crab, which has already started in Ferrol and Ourense, with very high results, with 2,094 colonoscopy and 31,911 tests delivered. I mean, we're campaigning and we're going to expand to all of Galicia's EOXI this program that got such a good result. We're also talking about strategic line 2, improving the consideration and accessibility of service delivery, the response time. There was talk here, Mrs. Acuña, that the trick was that priority 1 marked what was the first consultation. No, look, there are the quick tracks, which have been running for a couple of years in Galicia and this year they're going to take to all the EOXI with seven quick tracks, where the maximum waiting time, with consultation and testing, up to diagnosis and treatment, is total. Of course, we believe that rapid pathways with maximum response time are a fundamental priority. Strategic line 3 is to guide the delivery structure of services to patients' needs and attention to chronicity. We're talking within this strategic line of the Welsh Ictus Care Plan, the Ictus Code. This Ictus Code is going to change a very important part of the brain pathology we have right now. What Hemodynamics did 15 or 20 years ago is going to be the new activity, that new reorganization of attention to the stroke. So far, the stroke was practically maintenance treatment. Now we're going to be active and we're going to try to solve the problem of obstruction in the strokes. With which, not only are we going to reduce people's mortality, but rather, very important, the morbidity that creates strokes in Galicia. And we're going to be one of the regions we're going to go forward, trying to move forward in something that we think is fundamental: reducing morbidity and reducing the mortality of our users. As I said, the line of strategy 3 is to improve chronic patients: the Connecta Plus, also called Connecta 72, which in 2015 affected 150,000 patients, with 85% of response. The telephone appointment, which is now very important, where part of the time of primary doctors has been dedicated to the phone appointment of those people who cannot get close to the health center, or who have a pathology or doubts about their health that can be resolved through the telephone line. For that date is something that has been consolidated throughout Galicia this year. We're also going to develop the Romanian Chronicity Plan, the individualized Care Plan. The Strategic Mental Health Plan 2017-2020 also asked for it. We're going to act on early phases and psycho-geriatry programs, which are very important. The seventh unit is created in the coming months in Vigo. And also childhood programs, an obvious problem, a problem that we care a lot about, which is mental health at the earliest ages. We will also try to guide the provision of services to the needs of patients with this attention to chronicity and create the register of rare diseases. It's an initial procedure for having, say, a real picture of the diseases we have in Galicia. And the first step, in addition to the strategies of action on them, is the record of all Galicia. And as Mrs. Carmen Acuña also said – which seems to listen to us, at least – we do the integral approach of pain. We especially want to act on childhood pain, that pain that sometimes passes more unnoticed within the pathology. And also the Friendly Code. Generalize the whole organizational chart of Sergas this treatment, that information to the user, as a protocol established to be homogenous at the full level of the Galego Health Service. We also want to improve and expand the Program of Polymedicated Patients; more than 38,500 patients incorporated. Or also, in strategic line 4, advance in patient empowerment. Form an expert patient, a competent patient; that patient who knows his disease perfectly and is an active agent to collaborate with other relatives or even other neighbors. Also to improve the claim suggestion system, the Wish System, which is already in operation in many of our health care areas and that we are, logically, expanding it and taking it to all spaces, to all EOXI. In strategic line 5, strengthening the Galaga School of Health for Citizens, which is working very, very well; favoring the Advisory Council for Patients, where there are many patients, sometimes integrated into associations, who already collaborate, give information, make suggestions for improving the health system. Managers may have a clear idea of how to perform the health service, but patients are the ones who guide us in the final treatment of that disease. We also want to promote the management of knowledge and innovation ACIS, the Galician Knowledge Agency, which Mrs Prado has already disqualified when it's been in operation for three months. It's starting with a lot of goals, collecting projects that we've been working on since the Public Health and Innovation Directorate. European projects, five running right now, leading two, with 4.8 million to Galicia. The truth is, we have a lot of enthusiasm for innovation and knowledge management, and I think this agency is going to give us one more weapon so we can do it. Or that Innovation Platform that's the Innovation Nodes. More than a hundred ideas of projects received, more than a hundred professionals working together. In strategic line 7, improve service reliability, reduce variability and improve coordination. The robotization of the distribution of drug dispensation in hospitals has already had Mrs. Acuña in Ourense. The IANUS by process, which will be ready for the latest version of IANUS. By the way, when it is said that primary care is totally abandoned, precisely the IANUS was the vertebrate element of the system, the union between primary and specialized. We can't talk about two separate worlds anymore. They are united, and united by the most important: the patient's clinical history. But we're going to continue to make an evolution that further improves its conditions. Or also the Zero Infection Project in critical care units, which is already in all critical units in Galicia. The health platform, which will soon be presented, where users, through a tablet, through a mobile phone, can know their clinical history, their analyses, their pending citations, their pharmacological history, the drugs that up until that time were prescribed by your doctor so you can take it at any time and know exactly what you are taking; and not only him, but his family members can have control of their clinical history and of the treatments they receive or are receiving at that time. Also in almost a couple of months we'll have the interoperability of electronic recipe; that's to say that at the level of all Spain we can go anywhere and use our card to get that treatment, as we do right now in Galicia. The second strategic axis, what we said about the improvement of professionals committed and cared for by the organization. So within that we have an important series, which is strategic line 6: to promote the management of knowledge and innovation. The investigator's figure is about to be created in a decree. For the first time in Galicia – and I think we're going forward inside Spain – the researcher as such has a consistency, is a category of our health system model. It is a model that seeks the stability of researchers. Later on, too, as we said, the integral platform to enhance knowledge management. As for promoting communication with professionals, users and society, that line is strategic 8. Open and permanent competition, promoting voluntary mobility, something that has been claimed for some time by union representation and that we understand it can be very positive for workers. Or that point of attention to professionals, custom support, the e-expenditent, with 1.7 million registered merits, now more than 7 million daily accesses and which decreases the number of resources and claims in the processes. In Galicia we have updated the merits of the people who present themselves to the oppositions thanks to this system. But also the plan to promote the fulfilment of internal standards, enhance the role of intermediate controls in primary care, evaluation of health services results – we said to look after good professionals since entry into the organization, professional development, express and individualized public recognition of each of them, nursing specialties, adaptation of jobs to specialization. The ACUDE Project, which was launched as a pilot project in some of the areas of Galicia and which we are going to try to take now this year and, if not, between this year and the next, for the protection of professionals from external violence, which although it is few in Galicia, remains always important. And logically a pay system where performance gains, the quality of care, and the choice of the patient is also present. The reorganization of professional categories meets new needs and employment stability. Some people say the 2016 OPE is a poor OPE. Well, blessed are the poor, because I think 800 squares this year is an important number, and we try to stabilize, that decreases the number of interinstances, and we believe that it can be achieved. Also taking into account that the health system is a system that involves concrete actions in specific seasons due to increased care activity. We must also be agile in responding to the needs of our patients. And there are periods, like the famous winter periods, or months of winter, with high incidence of fever episodes, of acute respiratory disease, that we have to be there with them. But also, on a strategic line, for example, in 14 – using resource allocation models to improve the fairness of access to services, patient traceability, radiological images, surgical management, or, as Mr. Núñez said, voice treatment – we are already working on a project to be able to make reports much faster and that loses the professional much less time. We already have at Sergas 100 percent of the medical image generated in Sergas already digital, and, of course, it leads mainly to action, to patient care, much faster, much more effective, with less economic cost. But also in strategy number 15, for example, we're setting measures to improve the efficiency of the system to ensure its sustainability and we're going forward to other communities in promoting the use of bio-symbolic drugs. The pharmacy is still very important. We also renew infrastructures, information infrastructures, but also directly diagnostic and treatment infrastructures. Today, precisely this week, the linear accelerator of the Lugo hospital was launched yesterday – to say that the Greek health system is being dismantled – is being dismantled. And this week the accelerator room is also in operation at the Mexoeiro Hospital, Vigo, another hospital that also the tremendous opposition says it's dismantling. The curious thing is that by dismantling as it is dismantling, it's about to end the most modern sterilization plant in Europe, which has an estimated cost of 2 million euros, in the hospital that will be dismantled, the hospital of the Mexoeiro. The accelerator room is in operation and soon, also in the next few months, the largest laboratory, the core laboratory of the Vigo Hospital Complex will be installed. [[Applause]] That's where we're dismantling health from the Health Council. It's also sad that they are always the spokespersons of political groups in the Vigo area who speak ill of the Vigo area. I believe that the area of Vigo has precisely jumped in quality in recent years, and specifically in the last year, thanks to that total and absolute reorganization, where the Mexeiro hospital continues to grow in investments, improving the outpatient area, where the number of interventions is already greater than last year, and creating a new organization, responding to Vigo's metropolitan area. [[Murmurs.]] But, as I said, we're not only talking about hospital complexes, we're also talking about primary care. And curiously in that area that according to the description of the opposition we destroyed, because it's opening a week ago from Oia's health center, about Panxón's and about, in about month and half, Tui's. To dismantle. It's also true that some national leaders of these groups who are here in the House say, when they go to the hospital in Alcorcón, they're happy to attend to you in a public hospital. Well, I want you to see exactly what Alcorcón's hospital is. We don't have a similar model in Galicia, of course. We think we can't talk about something and the opposite. I believe that at the beginning of the intervention, this second intervention, we wish we would use the debate to improve health, but not always using destructive criteria and saying that everything is wrong. Obviously, man, I don't think it's too reasonable that, when you have a patient entering an ICU, you put a sign saying there's a risk of that patient dying in the ICU. I don't think that's to be allowed, neither there nor anywhere. So you can't play with anxiety, with fear, with the suffering of people who are entering a hospital, or with what their family members experience. That's what we're against. [[Applause]] Mrs. Solla always talks about the area of Vigo destroyed. Unfortunately, people who belong to this area of Vigo are saying that it's sad. Of course, we're fighting throughout Galicia for improvement. And it's also about the Bipartite. I told Mrs. Prado that Vigo's hospital is like the Bipartite. I don't know if it was in a positive or a negative sense, because it belonged to a bipartisan. That was a disaster. Of course, in Vigo there is no bipartisan, in Vigo there is a general manager who organizes the total and absolute assistance of a hospital complex, and then there are companies that are subcontracted that have to do parasanitary work, which, by the way, were already done at Vigo General Hospital, at the Mexoeiro Hospital, at Nicolás Peña, at the CHUS of Santiago, at the CHUAC of Coruña, because all parasitary services for a long time - and the Bipartite has not changed it - are performed by external companies. But that doesn't mean that the manager isn't the one who orders, who directs, Vigo's health area. It's like that there and here, everywhere. [[Applause]] As for primary care, we believe that primary care is of utmost importance. I'm a family doctor, but I'm not saying it because I'm a family doctor, because it's an easy speech, but because we believe it. We think it's the door to the system, but right now we don't talk about separate worlds anymore, we don't talk about primary care like a world and hospitalized like another world. Not so, today they're interconnected, through IANUS, but also through 061, through e-consulting, through all the new procedures, of the new technologies that we're adding to this new one in Welsh health. And we said, moreover, that we are innovative, because we have already received awards from the Council for innovative public procurement, that it doesn't sound to them what it is, but it's something very important that comes – and European funds are being used – so that we can design the needs we have at every moment, present companies that develop this project, and then the Council has a turn around those benefits from the idea that originated from the Greek health system. And we were, as I say, the best, we received awards, congratulations from the Ministry, saying that we are the autonomous community that has best used this system. To talk about emergencies is to always talk about it, it's easy to talk about emergencies. Of course the emergency goes for people, it goes for people because they solve their problems. And, of course, the urgency cannot be planned, but it can be prepared for the whole system to respond. And we have conditions. When we talk about closed beds, we have possibilities in all our hospitals to open up in certain peaks that we're going to use. We said Lugo. I think Lugo is a perfect example of what improved health in Galicia. Because I don't know if you, Mrs. Prado, knew the General Hospital of Lugo. Well, it was good at a given time, but obviously, if we go back there now, we can have, actually, memories that aren't the best. Today we have a large hospital, with two comarcas; right now one of them in the process of enlargement, Burela's, and Monforte's with medical specialties that there was not much time ago. But we have a HULA that potentially can develop many more activities, and are growing activities in the HULA. This week, yesterday, radiotherapy began, nuclear medicine in the next few weeks, and hemodynamics, which you say, is a hemodynamic that has greatly improved the quality of lumens in all aspects, in cardiology and hemodynamics. But the record, the Regalian that this Parliament said it would be good to create it -- and here the idea of the record was created -- developed, and what it said was that, after six months, mortality outcomes are very good, better than the national average, under the national average. And yet there's no influence on patient location. Therefore, we continue to evaluate, we continue to register and we will, as we always do in health, take the necessary measures according to citizenship or health problems tell us at all times. They also said we privatized. I wanted to show you again the privatization chart. This is the Bipartite chart, Mrs. Prado. They were going up here. This means that during these years they have reached the highest peak. [[Murmurs.]] We've been down for years. We've been down for years. And I have to tell you that you have to know the decree of waiting lists and patient registration, where it gives characteristics to a waiting list and patient registration. That's within the law, that's... that when you derived this number of patients from the concertaries, they said that the one who wasn't going to the concert was going to the patient register, exactly as the state regulations on that. [[Applause]] Look, I think the strategy gives for a lot more. Of course, we're going to publish it and we're going to make it possible for all of you, and above all, for all of the citizens of Galicia to see what the future of this health is. I know they don't want us here, but they're not gonna have it easy. We're going to fight for something we believe in, which is Greek health, for the public service that is being done from this community. And, Mrs. Acuña, with respect to the small and private, sometimes the size is not the important thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u106	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u107	You came here to talk about your book, but it would be nice if you'd had to go through it before so that you could read it and talk about it. Because now the only thing that appears here is your opinion about the book, which was the only one who read it. Therefore, very badly. When you are going to comment on the book, you first have to give it to read; otherwise, there is no comment. Second. After all he said, there's a fact that says that Galicia is the fifth community with more complaints about neglect, the fifth of the entire state. So, I don't know where you get your chest so much, because it's a data that the Patient's Ombudsman offers at the state level. He also talked about what he's going to deliver. I don't know how much documentation. I would like you to submit a report with these allegations that were in the Welsh health care, these complaints, why they were, which were serious, with serious result, with slight result, and what originated those complaints. Because I'm sure most of these neglects and complaints come from the lack of staff to work in the services. We have a stressed, hyper-laboured health personnel who are unable to, feel a real anguish of not being able to solve the situations that should be solved, an anguish that you should feel but that you don't feel and that only workers and public health workers feel. Mr. Núñez Centeno compared Andalusian and Asturias to Galician health. I say, why don't we do it with the Basque Country or Aragon? Of course, we take what we're interested in, when we're interested, but we're not talking about population, population type. There's a lot more. And speaking of population, population type and special situations, he generally spoke of Galicia as if the whole territory was equal to the health level. I would like you to tell me of all this as it will be spread across the territory, because there are areas of our territory abandoned healthfully, totally and absolutely abandoned; especially in the interior, where there are not, for example, the ADO services. expensive drugs that are not covered, it is true, cannot deny it, but also drugs that are not expensive but that cannot be consumed by many people who should consume them because they are not covered by Social Security, and for many people ten euros, five euros, eight euros a week or a month it is an insumable cost. Nor, by the way, did he say anything about the health transport, both the transport of medical ambulances and other ambulances and the transport adapted to go to hospitals, the great deficit of that wonderful hospital we have in Vigo, where people who need adapted transport, adapted bus, to get out of Vigo city have to wait many times more than an hour and a half to pick up the following. I was also talking about that platform where people will have access to their clinical history, and their families. I hope the measures are safe enough for family members not to enter for themselves. But he didn't say he was also privatized through Indra and Telephonic, another new privatization. You're putting all the public health technology into private hands, and I don't want to refer to clinical management units anymore, because that's a waste. Please talk about it as a success... that's really going to be putting public health into private hands so they can trade with those who can save on the basis of the material, the staff that they use, so they can even compete. And speaking of primary care, he didn't talk about anything either. He said it's the front door. Primary care is much more than the gateway, primary care is prevention, primary care is education, primary care is follow-up, primary care is the knowledge of the family, of its environment, that's the primary care, not only the entry door. That's why you've abandoned primary care, and for abandoning primary care, we've found ourselves in the collapses that we find in the emergency room. Privatizations that led to demonstrations and strikes in the CHUAC, in the HULA, in the CHUVI, in the CHOP... in every "chops", in everything that starts with "ch" has been off for these years. And it's not a joke, it's a shame that in this country all public hospitals went out in protest or called strikes in defense of public health jobs and in defense of the quality of care. He didn't mention anything about the CAR of Morrazo or the health center of the Years, he didn't mention anything about this follow-up of chronic, larger patients who don't access the Internet. How will they do it if it's not through primary care? He didn't say anything in mental health about getting people out of institutions with creation and having floors guarded so they could start taking an independent life and controlling medication for themselves. He didn't mention any of the attention to medullary injuries, which was a project that was there, that we don't have any attention centers in Galicia to medullary injuries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u108	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u109	It takes time, but I don't want to finish – if the president allows me – without referring to two things. He didn't talk about rehabilitation. with a huge waiting list, and so short sessions that they don't respond to people's problems. As for the violence against staff, external violence, it responds to the lack of staff, the wealth of citizenship to wait 20 hours in an emergency room, for example, from having waiting lists in primary care – I spent myself in Vigo personally, four days waiting in primary care, both for telephone and presence consultation –... that you don't talk, you came here to tell us your book, but your book is a novel, it has nothing to do with reality. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u111	Thank you, President. I'm not going to mention, I'm just going to lose a few seconds of the intervention, to the speech of the People's Party spokesman. I didn't know he was also here to come up with the 2020 Strategy or that he was going to give us answers to the rest of the voices and voices. Unfortunately you are not available to make any kind of response, because since in the Health Committee you have recently told me – to laugh – that there were not enough nurses on the lists to cover the summer and Christmas holidays, because, given your level of knowledge about how public health is, I think I will even pass by to answer you, because, in addition, here we came to the presence of the counsellor. Counselor, by the way, it's very good that you talk about your book and explain something about the strategy, because the truth is, I've already told you, in the first part, diagram, you didn't tell anything, we'll read it when it's published, it seems. But this is an appearance, you're the guest, you come to this Parliament, and you have to answer our questions, not the other way around. You don't just come to tell me what you want, but if you show up, we do the work of the opposition. And so it would be good if you answered the doubts that moved you; among other things, because they frankly question the policy that has been done and which you are doing in health. But besides, you haven't given any apex of any kind of novelty of something you're going to do. It's just, I've already told you that you've transferred a budget count that's fake, because it gives you the feeling that if you're going to implement improvements or budget increases, when you actually make an estimate of what the approximate annual budget of each year is in health, they actually add up and multiply it for five, that is, they already give the five-year annuality. And that's what you say they're going to invest, really the plan is absolutely smoke. And it turns out quite appealing – you didn't say what those drugs were, I hope you do later – that you speak, I told you, when we kept waiting for those hepatitis C drugs for the sick and the sick who reside in the prison. But in addition, you have for quite a long time refused to provide these drugs, and voted against this Parliament to ask the Ministry to provide, if required, a mandatory license to produce them in a generic way. I mean, there would be savings there, we don't know why he voted against it. We also don't know why they voted against it, therefore, to eliminate the pressure lobbyists exert on public health professionals to prescribe some or all drugs. We've moved an initiative into this House, voted against, and therefore I don't understand why you're worried about that supposed pharmaceutical expense when you really don't put anything on your side. Or they should also explain to us why the People's Party, the Ministry, signed, before the end of the legislation, a new agreement with PharmaIndustria to link pharmaceutical spending to gross domestic product and save those accounts in case at any time they had some kind of problem; by the way, an agreement that has been extended for years. You talked about an expert patient. And the problem is that it's done in this primary care that you say it's defended so much, but it's been the cutest, I think it's different, from the whole general cut that has covered the Health Council in recent years, that I've already told you that it's worth nearly 400 million euros. I mean, they first eliminate professionals in primary care, they cut their resources off, and then they want to get education for health. You said you created the figure of the researcher – or the researcher, I suppose –. It seems to me to be a misunderstanding of respect when researchers and researchers are denouncing precisely the precariousness in their contracts. It's not that you believe anything but that you have to solve a precarious situation of people who have to look for, besides, life to seek funding for your projects because you decide not to contribute anything publicly, always vote against the amendments that labs are asking for, that they want to increase R+D+i, etc. And please talk about the Master and say that we're catastrophic... I'm sorry that you don't know how the hospital is being your advisor. I should come by. And that flood my partner referred to is real. And why is it real? Because everything is absolutely left, there are not only two closed rooms, on Holy Week, one more closed. You've eliminated REA, you've eliminated intensive care, there's already been a number of problems with several patients who got hurt in some services and there's nowhere to move them. That's very serious, and that you move here that everything is very good, well, it's not only irresponsible for you but really because it doesn't give you confidence, I feel like telling you, and not for me, but even for professionals. Because a responsible person, of course, transfers things too that are wrong. You wouldn't hear me say here – not here or in the centers where I am going – that it's all wrong. There are things that are good, but probably not by their management, but because professionals work very hard every day. I'd never hear myself say that, ask your manager at Vigo, and ask him why – and I'm done already, that I think I've spent my time – when we went on a visit – I was with him myself – he went through the halls dedicated to taking up the posters of the professionals where they said they needed means because they were in the outside language and couldn't work. That's what you're worried about, the picture. But the picture gives the measure of how you have health. And, of course, instead of listening to them and talking to them and them what they do is show them, that's the strategy for the Galician Health Service that you have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u113	You said, Counselor, that I came here to talk about your book, as if to say what you want me to say, I'll do what I want to do. What happens is that the book wasn't written by you, you inherited the book and could have been coauthor. At this moment you can then sign off when you close at the end of this legislation. Because the book had been written earlier, and when his predecessor, one of his predecessors in office, introduced the former Sergas Strategy, said he was coming to introduce the Sergas Strategy, which were very similar things to what you said. And within the axes, he says, "We will establish a model of collaboration with private and socio-sanitary health centres based on the recognition of the near value of the private sector." That's your book, indeed, that's the book you put in a title to Mrs. Farjas, which turns out that Mrs. Rocío Mosquera has followed and that you are following now. Actually, you come to talk about your book for the recognition of the nearness of the value of the private sector. From the private sector as a subsidiary of the public, you are making the private sector as the main provider of health care. That's why they actually keep concerts with Povervisa, a hospital, Povervisa, where professionals again denounce a situation of lack of personnel, heavy work shifts, few rests, overloads, stress, loss of the care quality of this situation, violation of the concert. So in that area of Vigo that you wanted to set a model, I don't know that, the most populated health area, with more waiting lists and with worse infrastructures, you've made a private hospital that didn't have all the benefits and all the capacity you had to have so that it wasn't necessary for poor people just to keep these issues. Precisely because that's your book. He said a truth, today he said a truth: that he came to talk about his book. And that's exactly your book. I'm also going to devote a second time to the Voice Lord of the People's Party, because he comes here talking about serious things, and the goal of the People's Party in Government is to get incomes to allow the system's sustainability, as if that was a matter of... of course, of what you don't want to talk about, of what you never want to talk about, of changing the turns, of not wanting to talk about changing your income, you don't want to talk about raising differently, of what you don't want to talk about, of what you don't? You don't want to talk about paying more than you have, you don't want to talk about putting 9,000 million euros into the bank, and it turns out you can take it out of private health. Of course, you don't want to talk about legislate so they have public control over drugs, states and governments. No, you don't want to legislate there; no, you don't want to legislate there. Just like they don't want to bet on public research, so we don't have to depend on those private labs that then put us in so much trouble with those expensive drugs. But you don't want to act there; you don't want to act by regulating the situation of researchers Miguel Servet, who promised them, and again you don't do them. They don't want to know anything about it. Then the advisor comes and says they're going to make a research plan, where perhaps it turns out... when they've already promised that stability for years and they haven't fulfilled it. You don't want to be there, and then you come here like the formal ones, who do performances to ensure the system's sustainability, but not to act where it needs to be, so that the system is really viable and is at the service of most, not at the service of a few. They don't want to act; no, they don't want to act, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Look, I, for the answer you just gave, that instead of waiting list is called logs... you just said this is true, right? Here it says, "days in programming queue." So, what you call records, that, in your official sheets... I don't know who's directly responsible. You're the most responsible; I don't know who, your team, is the direct manager, if the manager, this manager today in Ourense, who assumes that it's the one who best manages the waiting runs... I don't want to imagine how the others are. So, here, what you call records, which are days in programming queue, says they exist. Well, then, after this show, and maybe we could go over for lunch, if the president permits it, BNG presents a motion asking that these programming records be made public. I want to think that since you recognize here that they exist, because you have no problem with the People's Party in voting in favour of all of us knowing those records, which are actually programming queues, where today in Ourense more than 300 people have been there for two years, at least two years. We'll talk after this. In short, Mr. Almuña, your book is that a government has never done so much damage to the Welsh public health in such a short time. Never a government has done so much damage to the Greek public health in such a short time! He doesn't give me time to talk about the professionals, that you say he has to pee, but the only thing he does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u115	...is that they have been subjected to an indecent medical pressure situation. I'd like to end up with the infrastructure, very briefly, Mr. President. It turns out Núñez Feijóo has arrived and the People's Party again to the Government of the Union promising sixty-something health centers; then they were 45, then there were 14, and, two legislations later, ending the second legislation, comes the most responsible, which is you, Mr. Almuínña, and says you're going to set up Hey, Panton and Tui. The mountain stopped for a while, Mr. Almuinha, you want me to tell you! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u117	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Almuña, you were looking for a monologue, so you used the second turn to show up, but you made a mistake: you forgot to answer. I should have listened to our questions. What this monologue has done for him was to speak out some applause from the Members and Members of the People's Party, the suffering Members and the busy Members, who will allow me to explain this to them from the PP hospital in Vigo, who have not just understood it. Look, it's private is very clear, and it's smaller, it's much smaller. Look, the number of beds was reduced by 31.8%; by 31.4%, the surface of the surgeons; by 55.5%, the surface of the emergency; and by 45.7%, that of the rays, not to mention everything that was suppressed. The size, Counselor, if it mattered, and it mattered, and much, to over 200,000 people who went out to Vigo against this small, private PP Vigo hospital. Look, I know that in the background what this audience is looking for is that the media, and above all on TV Feijóo, pick up tomorrow or today what you want me to pick up, what they tell you. But on the other hand, there are people who listen and there are people who think, people who think what it's going to be like in a pediatric pain unit without increasing the staff, without increasing the resources, when their child or child has no pediatrician near to care for him; people who are going to ask where their health center remained, because, indeed, Counsellor, you were going to build more than 60 health centers; that you're going to ask what is that of the colonist, who only reaches 80% of the population of Greece, and in other autonomous communities are much better, Mr. Counsellor. Many professionals will be asked when they listen to TV, or read the paper, which you can come here to breast-feed with that OPE. Look, 800 OPE squares are nothing, Mr. Almuña, when you have previously done an ERE – according to your data, because we have claimed them thousands of times and have not facilitated them – and they have removed, retired, to more than 3,500 professionals. Look, there's only 2,700 left to cover those you retired at the age of 65 and a second. Look, we're in a very difficult economic situation, yes, yes, and that's precisely why it's very important to manage public resources with great care, but also, Counsellor – and this always forgets the People's Party – with a lot of sensitivity. It's no time for adventures or machines or waste, it's people's time, Counselor. So I'm going to tell you about the Sergas 2020 Strategy, but what we're going to do, about the goals of a left-wing government, looking at and counting on people. And I'm going to tell you about our book, Counselor, and the first thing we're going to do is restore the universality of public health. Besides, we're going to work progressively to recover all privatised, especially the disaster of Vigo's new private and small hospital. We will increase the health budget, seeking to get closer to the European average, we will open all beds closed by the PP and will structure the care and socio-health benefits. We will recover, Mr. Almuña – you, who is a primary care professional – the Primary Care Improvement Plan, the Mental Health and Addictional Care Plan and the Women's Health Care Plan. We will develop an urgent care plan, respecting – by the way, Counsellor, I recommend – the current location of 061 and a palliative care plan and attention to terminal disease that reaches the entire territory. We will recover the health areas, centered in the comarcal hospitals, with all the skills they had, and integrating the attention – of course, yes, but where to integrate – into primary care. We shall end the assumption by the autonomous administration of health infrastructures, as set out in the local Covenant. We will develop a new human resources plan, with a 100% replenishment rate, with the recovery of the eliminated and disappeared professional career, and, above all, with the immediate elaboration and disappearance of those potentially embarrassing contracts. We'll do an immediate audit of the waiting lists, with the continued publication of the actual wait. We will ensure equality in access to oncologic treatments and hepatitis C for all the population, including the inmate, and will include in the vaccination calendar...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u119	...the meningitis B vaccine, which they buy in neighbouring Portugal without any problem, Mr. We will recover and encourage innovation and health research, yes, but public and Welsh. Internationalization? Buy public and innovative? Of course you do, Counselor, but look, you, with your management, the only thing that internationalizes are our professionals, both doctors and doctors and all nursing professionals, and unfortunately all of our researchers too. Look, all this, Mr. Almuño, don't pick up – and end – anything in your Strategy, and that's why we need you to leave to start working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u121	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Mrs. Solla, the first thing I want to say to you is that I suppose the People's Group will have the right to present its opinion on this matter. I don't know the concept of democracy that you have, but I think we have the right to think. And Mrs. Here's just one thing: suffering and exhausted I see more over there than around here, at least for now [[Applause]] Well, thank you, counselor, for the explanations of some projects in the Strategy. We understand that it's probably very broad and that it doesn't have time for everyone. Of course, listening to the opposition groups' speech, we have made it clear that this is a deja vu of the September 28, 2010 debate in the presentation of the Sergas Strategy 2010, and last year 2015, when the evaluation of the results of the Strategy was presented. In the first debate of 2010 there were fewer spokespersons and they were not the same, but the same speech was heard today. So it was said, "The plan doesn't bring anything new, it doesn't compromise any performances." We were already talking about lists of waiting and lack of primary care and disease prevention, low implementation of electronic revenue... yes, sir, we are the first community to have 100 percent, we were the first community to allow pensioners not to pay the payout, and it turns out that we were going to be late. How would the others go, Counselor! They should have been doing well! There was also talk of infrastructure that would not be built, and of course, it was said that it was all propaganda. They cannot believe it, Members and Members of the People's Group, but the Government of the People's Party was accused of delaying the opening of the Lugo hospital, the one who had neither opened nor finished the previous Government, and who, of course, did not envisage hemodynamics, radiotherapy or nuclear medicine. There was also talk about the 40 health centres that had left ready to start building the two-party government. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that government of "we will" but don't "fix." But as that government of "we will" but don't "fix" was so close, it was so recent, the Popular Spokesperson then and the advisor didn't have to make great efforts to refresh the memory of the present, reminding them: the last rated positions in which the Welsh health was found in 2009; the outcome of the Lugo hospital; the situation of waiting lists in that year 2009, with more than 21% of the patients waiting for more than 6 months for specialist consultation, or 40 days in priority 1; a pharmaceutical expense of the highest in Spain, with the percentage of use of the lowest generics; a hospital of Vigo without beginning, and today, fortunately, finished; some figures of use of radiology, TAC and magnetic resonance, compared to other autonomous communities – this has cost and damage to the sick – an important increase in concerts with the private –hes already referred to here–, reduced later by the plans of the Popular Party. [[Applause]] We're talking about the Primary Care Plan. So there would be a survey among professionals, and wondering what was the most important improvement in primary education, professionals said 1% was the plan, 50% was the IANUS and 28% were the introduction of information technologies. Not one health center throughout that period of government, etc., etc., etc. By 2015, this spokesperson is already a Member and attends the debate, we go back to them. We are again talking about the usual mantras: privatization, deterioration of public health, spores, advertising, propaganda, clippings, waiting lists... And what's the reality? Health coverage for immigrants, with the special public health programme, IANUS and electronic recipe 100%; waiting lists managed by priorities, with the implementation of rapid pathways, high-resolution consultations, and very important improvements in the waiting times, with the special public health care programme, with the special public health programme, IANUS and electronic recipe 100%; waiting lists managed by priorities, with the implementation of rapid pathways, high-resolution consultations and very important improvements in the times of waiting; the catalogue of medicines and the use of generics, which are around 45%; the Public Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro de Vigo in operation and reform and expansion of other hospitals; the renewal of Sergas's health technology; the renewal of health technology; the renewal of health centres; the increase of life expectancy of the primary; the increase of life expectancyless emergency capacity; the reduction in primary; fewer hospital emergencies; the number of hospital emergency cases; the number of primary care; more emergency cases, and a reduction of primary care, and a reduction in comparison around 9% of the hospital; and the amount of the hospital; the increase in which he/he/he/he/he was; the increase in the year of the number of the number of external consultation of the year of the year of external consultations, the need, the need of emergency without urgency of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of assistance; the reduction of assistance; 2008; the reduction of the reduction of assistance; the reduction of assistance; the reduction; the reduction of the reduction of assistance; the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the reduction of the availability of the reduction of the availability of the availability of the availability of assistance; the availability of assistance; the increase; the availability of the increase; the increase; the availability of the availability of the availability of the increase; the increase; the increase; the availability of 2008 2008; the increase; the increase; the increase of the increase of the increase; the increase of the availability of the increase; the increase; the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the increase of the reduction of the reduction of the increase of the reduction of the reduction of The 2010-2014 Strategy, along with the work of professionals, has made possible this improvement in health care. That's why, Counsellor, we thank you for your presence, and we urge you and all of the system's technicians and teachers to work for the development of the system to achieve a degree of compliance with the intended objectives as far as possible. We hope that the 2020 Strategy will be even more successful than that of 2014 and that it will also improve the current situation by 2020, as it has improved between 2009 and 2014. Of course, what I am sure is that the Greeks and the Greeks are much more squabbling and are much more caring than what they think of the opposition and that they will once again give the People's Party enough to rule. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u122	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. To close this show, Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u123	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. As you know, the health landscape is evolving, we are facing a different scenario than we had until a very short time ago, in which the system focused primarily on the management of acute diseases. The aging of the population, derived, among other things, from social success and the health system itself, to improve survival, along with the chronicity of diseases, forces us to change. In the Sergas Strategy 2014 we have already taken steps towards managing this new scenario, but we had to continue this evolution. We are working on his assessment with illusion and with the aim of making a better system, reviewing all the actions launched in a critical spirit, in order to strengthen the correct ones and rethink everything that is likely to improve. It was a participatory process. We count on the proximity of internal agents as external. We invite you to participate – as I have pointed out in my first intervention – professionals, users, medical and nursing students, advisory councils, members of the Parliamentary Health and Trade Unions Commission and also representatives of companies. With all these contributions we seek to build a real guide to define where we want to get, where we want the Greek health system to be within five years. This Strategy has the fundamental objective of improving the health of the Greeks through the provision of effective, efficient and quality health services in an equitable, accessible and sustainable way, consolidating both technological innovation and the implementation of integrated processes that guarantee their care continuity. I want to summarize again the fundamentals of the Strategy that we present today: that our mission is to improve the health of the Greeks. To continue progressing toward this goal, we have identified four strategic axes or targets that will help improve the health of the Greeks. They're the ones I detailed in my first intervention. Once those axes are defined, you will need to need the different strategic lines that would develop them. These lines may in many cases be contributing to developing more than one strategic axis, but by ordering the document, each strategic line assigning it to the axis where it might most impact. Once the lines are set, the projects have been defined as operational tools for the development of the Strategy. As normal, each project can be related to several strategic lines and therefore to several axes. For the order of the plan, each project has been assigned to the strategic axis that best adapts to a strategic line that develops mainly. The final summary of this structuring reflects that in an organization as complex as Sergas all projects interact with the different strategic objectives and thus contribute to developing several strategic lines, although in some countries it always has a greater impact, and so the list of projects was ordered. With these projects we want to continue the changes that the system needs to make stronger, to overcome the challenges it must undoubtedly face: the ageing of the population, its pluripathology, technology and increasingly expensive drugs, adaptation to new information and communication technologies, more and more informed patients, increasingly involved in the decision on their health and disease, the inevitable needs of health prevention and promotion and increasingly transformative actions in the strict healthcare field and the new rules of play with health providers. Also within these lines of guiding principles of the Galego Health Service, a system that thinks about citizenship above all, we have to focus on the accessibility and fairness of health benefits for the entire population of Galicia. To achieve this goal, we need to be able to continue the process of adapting to new information and communication technologies in order to establish relationships of true proximity between the levels of care and to achieve a relationship between the physician and the patient of a new medicine that is constantly evolving. The strategy also aims to enhance good professionals and to influence the development of professional excellence. We want to continue to improve care continuity by promoting joint work among professional levels. We aspire to standardize clinical practice to reduce its variability and personalize services according to citizens' objective needs. In this sense, the Strategy advocates adapting care flows to the different types of patients, as the system is now organized by medical specialities and professional categories, not by the needs of users. Finally, the initiative seeks to achieve the utmost credibility of system officials to improve the communication of professionals and citizens, in favour of the implementation of new projects, strengthen organizational and management criteria that are homogeneous and coherent, develop information systems that allow evaluation and decision-making and allocate resources based on health outcomes. Finally, we will continue to work on the integration of care, in the structure itself, in the implementation of action plans at both levels of assistance, using all the tools that we have already set up and which facilitate activity in the presence, communication, and which ultimately enhance the resolution capacity of primary care. Part of these performances are going to be done with the development of programs that will use digital home and hospital at home, where the patient also has a relevant role. We want to conjugate the technician, the specialization and the human. That's why we can't forget a very important aspect: the relationship with patient associations. Their participation is a clearly strategic objective. We want to incorporate his voice, his vision and his worries; we aspire to be an open health service to them, to continue to encourage his participation and to open hospitals and health centers to society. The intention is to respond and support a growing number of patient associations, whose role in relation to our organization changes with the passage of time, acquiring larger dimensions every day. We want to incorporate them decisively and definitively and get more trained and informed patients, more experienced and competent patients in their self-care. It is necessary to renew the dynamics of the functioning of the Advisory Council for Patients. At the very least, our goal is to maintain its current activity as an advisory body of the Council and continue to support its training demands, as well as institutionally support its progress and official actions. In essence and summary, and given the sociodemographic characteristics of our community, with an accused population aging, we are committed to an adequate system of attention to chronic diseases. The importance of attention to chronic patients, both because of their incidence and their impact on the system, determines the needs of a reengineering in their assistance. The basis of the same is also established in primary care and should achieve the highest possible efficiency, avoiding duplication of tests and diagnostic and therapeutic viability and preventing hospital income. To that end, it will be necessary to develop an care philosophy based on integrated care processes and a different work dynamics among professionals, where you have a more comprehensive view of their complexity and their environment, anticipating your needs and punctual actions in acute phases, without forgetting the legitimate wishes of the patient. It also requires the application of the new management formulas, in which the patient should be incorporated, providing him with knowledge and skills that enable him to participate and co-responsibility of health decisions. We're going well forward, we're still moving forward, though there's a lot left to go on. There's an African proverb that says if you want to walk fast alone, but if you want to get away walk accompanied. That's why I want to end by thanking all the professionals of the Galician Health Service and the Health Council, my team – who is here today – and the best incentive and incentive to continue working for the improvement of the health and quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, finally, because it remained in the debate that Galicia is left behind in health care with regard to Europe, I would like Members to be able to travel and talk about German health, Portuguese health or the health of those countries that are said to be above us. They pay for services, and a German has to pay every day for hospital admission, a Portuguese paid for emergencies and medical care; that Portuguese had a problem: he had a government that couldn't cut the economic crisis and had to be intervened by Europe. And I was telling Mrs. Prado that there was not a government that had done as much damage to health as the current one. I think there were several. She participated in the Bipartite here in Galicia, but we all suffer the situation that caused Mr. Zapatero in Spain and that today we are still paying. [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u124	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 17 o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u125	Good afternoon. Let's restart the session with the third item on the agenda. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with Sergas waiting lists, the derivation of patients from Galician public health to private centres and the constitution and convening of the area health councils
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u126	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u127	Good afternoon. In the previous plenary session, the Nationalist Block Galego questioned the advisor about the situation of waiting lists in the referral of patients to private health. It is clear that the adoption by the People's Party of the Health Insurance Act alone had, and it has, as its sole objective, to give legal status to the derivation of resources and of patients to private health, with which it means the maintenance of private health with public resources. As a result of this inquiry today, the Nationalist Block Galego presents a motion in which we essentially demand two things: that public health resources are operational as long as there are public resources, they do not derive or make use of them to private health, and then what we demand is transparency. In the previous plenary session, the public party's health spokesman said that he referred to the single record of acute myocardial infarction, which was very important that sort of thing, because we are in time of transparency, said textually Mr. Núñez Centeno that we are in time of transparency; for what today demands BNG is transparency. With which I hope that the initiative that raises specific issues of transparency will be supported by the People's Party, because if we don't have to conclude that transparency is a word that sounds beautiful to the People's Party, but that it is not willing to do any action that derives from the fact that it becomes no tangible fact. So, the initiative we present, the motion, the first demand is to immediately make public all of Sergas' waiting lists, both structural and non-structural. I don't know if it's necessary to be admitted to an amendment in voice, derived from the intervention of today's counselor this morning, who was talking about records, because it seems to you that we also introduced here the question of structural, non-structural lists of all existing patient records Sergas has. I also already told the councillor in the morning, who insisted on him stubbornly, that he had done and said what is the real situation on the waiting lists, whether the lists published on the Sergas page, which as we all know has gone from a quarterly publication to now only making a six-monthly publication, that is, only twice a year; I suppose that's the transparency to which the People's Party refers. So we all figured out the existence of a much more extensive and non-structural list, the existence of real B lists, B lists that today – I insist – the advisor has already named them, calls them records, doesn't call them waiting lists. It turns out that the BNG has access to information from the programming queue lists – officially called the EOXI of Ourense, which are referred to throughout the province of Ourense. That's where the reality is actually reflected, the reality of how despite the popular party's speech of attempting to cheat continuously by referring to the drop in the waiting list, makes a unique and exclusively reference to the reduction of the waiting list in what it calls priority 1, which are practically those things of life or death, cancers and matters of greater urgency. The reality is that everything else is just increasing. He said that until now we had the intuition, we made projections of what could be the real situation on the waiting lists, but now, at least, we have the real finding of what the real situation of the waiting lists of an EOXI that, of course, if there are 7, we can do a prospect of what the real situation in Galicia is. With which if at EOXI Ourense-Verín-O Barco the Sergas has hung on its website in December 2015, in that second half of 2015, they are that there are 3,215 people on the waiting list, and the reality is that there is 8,859, so if we do a survey in Galicia there can be an average of 100,000 sick people on the waiting list, because those 3,500 people who publish Sergas mean 40% of the real of that EOXI, they mean 40%, 100% would be those 7,859. So if Galicia the Sergas hangs there are 37,442 people on the waiting list, adding those of Povervisa, that we all know they're the most crowded, that means 40%, and 100% mean almost 100,000 people, that is, a real scandal. Just like it's a scandal that recognizes that the average waiting time on EOXI Ourense-Verín-Barco is 43 days, when the actual waiting time on its real programming queue pages is 153.62 days. This is the reality of the waiting lists and Sergas, which seems more than reasonable to us. Today the advisor did not deny that these lists were not authentic, he simply said that they are records, but they are authentic, with which this has to be deduced that what we demand in our initiative, which is to make public immediately all the waiting lists, should become an obligation that should already start from the People's Party itself, when every day he wants to make us talk about transparency. With which I look forward to the positive vote. What else do we demand? Have operating all the resources that Sergas has: beds, surgeries and do not carry out any derivation of patients to private health while there are available resources that may be used in public centers. Why are we asking for this? Well, for a logical question, while there's this list of people on the surgical waiting list, what does that mean? Who are people who an optional specialist said they had to be subjected to an intervention. He's not a patient who's there and he's pointing and getting numbers, he's people who a specialist said they had to be subjected to some kind of surgical intervention. For as long as that happens in Galicia in sexnione, it's almost seven years since the People's Party has been ruling since its return to Galicia, it has reduced the budget by more than 12%, more than 1,200 million euros spent less in public health, and more than 600 hospital beds in reduced public centers, those beds that close in summer with the excuse that there is less existential pressure, but that soon they never open again. The sum of all those closures that never opened again are 600 beds less than six years in Galicia's public health, which is not to be received that happens. That's why we demand that all resources be available. What else do we demand? Retrieve the total number of Sergas personnel since 2009. It's not to be welcomed that continuous and constant replacement rates are being eliminated nearly 3,000 personnel units serving Sergas in our country. That doesn't mean worse quality of care, that means healthcare pressure by professionals, that means worse quality of care, so that we have a public health in conditions without human resources, without personnel, it's not possible to have public health in condition, so that's our request. What else do we demand? Finish immediately with the practice of pulling out of the structural waiting lists patients who refuse to be derived from private centres or other concerted centres. I mean, all those people who with a justifiable reason don't agree to be derivative or can't go on the day they call an intervention, who won't be removed from the waiting list. And right now we also have proof that this is happening. We have, for example – it is hung on the networks, can access any – the case of a patient who enters the waiting list in September 2013 that in August 2014 they call it to go to a concerted center, says no, that he wants to be intervened in public health, and as a result never heard of it again,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u129	...but Sergas himself sends him a communication saying that he's only on a waiting list the time he's spent until they've offered him to derive it from private health. I mean, more than two years waiting for them to call her and it turns out they don't count, because I only computed her how long she's waiting before they call her for a private intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u131	We can also talk – and I'm done now – about the situation and the communications they send to people who for whatever reason can't attend a date on the day they call you from today to tomorrow, it turns out you can't go and as a result they tell you they'll call you again, and you never know it again. In short, what we are asking for is transparency, what we are asking for is that public resources are operational, what we are asking is that not Parliament is present within the maximum time limit of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u132	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u133	...two months a report on private drifts, and what we ask for is the constitution of the district councils, which is where public health should give an account to the society of which it is acting... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u135	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We are going to vote in favour of this motion, firstly because it is necessary to make the Sergas waiting lists public, both structural and non-structural, as it is claimed, since this Government concludes its mandate by failing to comply with the 60-day legal stand for surgical interventions that mark the Health Insurance Act which has approved the People's Party in solitary, and which still does not. According to data from Sergas, the hospital waiting list, in December 2015, the average expectation was 78.8 days; that is 18.8 days more than the law marks. The Povisa hospital, as the BNG spokesperson, a member of the Sergas network, who serves the public staff, continues to punish their patients with a higher waiting list that reaches 139.4 days, compared to 78.8 of public health. The Galician Public Health Defence Association has reported that while Sergas reports that patients on a surgical waiting list are 7,354, actually 20,356, that is, 3 times more than Sergas recognizes. A few more data allows Sergas access, so we're going to support this claim to publish the waiting lists. Also in point 2, which calls for all Sergas resources to be operational and they don't derive patients from private health, we will support it, because we already have the experience, the protest and the denunciation of the unions that denounce, for example, the closure of more than 100 beds in Sergas, while patients are derived from Fatima's private hospitals or Domínguez Hospital. Users and staff at the Costa Hospital also denounced the closure of more than 30 beds in the summer, the closure of the surgeons and the paralysis of the activity while increasing the activity in private health by diverting patients from the public. Also at point 3, which speaks of recovering the total staff squares of Sergas that have been eliminated since 2009. In 2010 the Government of the State decreed a 10% replacement rate, which remained until 2015, when it became 50%. In this period 2011-2015, according to data published in Sergas' human resources management plans, a total of 3,527 vacancies were produced. It is therefore urgent to convene these squares, because the quality of care provided in public hospitals is deteriorating. And the squares convened in this OPE, 800 squares, of course, are the third part of what should be called to re-place public health in the same personnel ratios as in 2010. But besides, it's an OPE that doesn't count, it doesn't contemplate the convening of such important, necessary and scarce specialties in our country as physiotherapy or clinical psychology can be. A system of precarious employment, day-to-day employment, for months or with other working links, but, in any case, in conditions of absolute precariousness. Precarious workers within Sergas and precarious workers, outsourced to private companies that undermine their wages, their working conditions and the quality of the health system itself. We will also support points 4 and 5 so that patients who do not want to go to a private hospital will not be penalized to comply with that 60-day Guarantee Act. It doesn't make any sense that the patient, the sick person, has to pay for Sergas himself's failure, if he can't comply with the law. Then, as Sergas violates the law, he makes the patient pay for this non-compliance by necessarily deriving him from private health, or if he is not directly punished by passing at the end of the waiting list. A genuine decision that, at the very least, we can say that it is discriminatory and that it punishes sick patients who are not willing to go to private health, because they believe and defend public health, contrary to what the Government of Greece does, that what it believes and what it defends is private health. Also that these patients are placed on the waiting list at their appropriate position, and the establishment of the fundamental health councils for the participation of society, for the participation of neighbouring associations, business organizations and trade unions. Health is everyone's business, society must participate in its improvement, and therefore we do not understand that health councils are not constituted, especially with a government that fills its mouth with transparency and good government, which publishes laws in this sense, but that then fails to do so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u136	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u137	...in order to provide information not only to society, but also to parliamentary groups. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u139	Thank you, President. We shall vote in favour of this motion. You see your lordships that AGE has on many occasions also requested data from non-structural waiting lists, in fact from the first initiatives we have brought to the health issue. They also know that the People's Party – as we have said here – asked them when it was opposition and denied them when it was in government. And you know, in addition, that these non-structural waiting lists are used. Mr. President of the Board, we've already said it from this gallery, called it a black hole, and today the President of the House, a health-care spokesman at that time, spoke of accounting makeup. The reality was that they were as bad before as they are now and that they are used or can be used by the rotating governments to manipulate the data they offer as they wait. We've been reporting it here for years, calling patients to quote them for evidence and for surgical interventions just before that data is published. If they say yes, as you know, they leave the list even if they offer them a private center, a concerted one, and if they say no to the private one, they also leave the list and pass on to these non-structural lists. However, the People's Party gave him another twist, indeed, as was said here when the Health Insurance Act was passed, and we denounced him during his processing and during his debate. It is no longer that they condemn, as happened before, ostracism to people who refuse to operate in private, that for two years now – precisely because the Law in force 12/2013 has just done this month two years of its entry into force – not only do they condemn ostracism, but anyone who refuses to attend to private loses the guarantee of health care, loses the right to be cared for or cared for in time and form. It is Article 9 of Law 12/2013, which approved the People's Party alone, point 1(c) which states that the response guarantees are without effect when a user does not opt for any of the alternatives offered. Of course, the other day there was a case on a person's radio that his family had been waiting a lot of time for a surgical intervention, I think it was on his knees, that he had already difficulties in his mobility, that he had refused to intervene in a private room and that today he understood that he had the right to go to the public and that they didn't call him. The reality is, unfortunately, that the People's Party has destroyed this right to public health care, because once people refuse this call to intervene in private for two years since the adoption of this law, they automatically lose that right to insurance. And probably a lot of people today, unfortunately, still don't know. That's privatization in every rule. We denounce it at the moment, because what happens is that health rights are drastically cut off and leads to private health. Of course, they're not even complying with the ratios contained in the law, with which the truth is that the result is rather serious, because it is at the expense of the public, and at the same time they are unable to comply with those minimum times of waiting for the People's Party itself to propose in its law. All these people should be included in these waiting lists, so we support the initiative, and they should regain their right to attention. Because choosing the public shouldn't be a punishment, and the problem is that two years ago it's been a punishment. It is not only that the waiting list is not made public, but that they also lose the guarantee of benefit. Together they punish us and keep closing plants and operating us. In 2013, I feel like repeating myself again, but we have been having this same problem for years, an initiative in this House for all public hospitals to carry out diagnostic tests, surgical interventions in the afternoon. Only a few days later did the lady leave, then, Health Counsellor saying that it would be very difficult to accomplish it, and today it is still unfulfilled. I wonder what this Parliament is for if today it remains unfulfilled. And not only do they close their beds in summer or Christmas, but they also close their beds now on Holy Week. We want our health to be returned to us, so we need those lost health and health facilities as well, of course we also support that point, because we cannot continue with this staff cut if we are to improve our services. The problem is it's probably not intended. And, of course, we also support that call from the area health councils, because seven years later it doesn't seem to receive that it will follow everything completely the same without a law, which is the health law. And, therefore, we want to begin the recovery of health, which is to recover the health of all of us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of Socialists, Mrs Acuña, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u141	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, they will allow me to talk about privatization by doing a little bit of pedagogy and clarifying three concepts that I consider fundamental: complementary, supplementary and substitute. Complementary is what serves to supplement, supplement to supplement and substitute to replace. And, of course, it's not the same replacement as supplanting or completing. Indeed, and as the Counsellor recalled in the motion for this motion, the General Health Act of 1986, the Socialist Government, raised that concerts could be set up for the provision of services with other means, but also said that after the optimal use of own health resources. And the Galician Health Act 2008, Government bipartisan, defines the private health system as complementary and subsidiary to the public. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, both laws talk about complementing the public with the private. But cutting resources to public health, cutting off budgets, human resources, material and technological resources, keeping beds closed all year round, as does the Government Feijóo, to then use concerts and private drifts to address deficiencies arising from these policies, is clearly complementary to the deficiencies caused by public health. In addition, the 2013 Government Feijóo Health Insurance Act, privatize, ladies and gentlemen, by law. It is to allow one step further, since if you do not comply with the marked wait, the patient will be derived from the private one. That is, the law makes it easier to replace, replace the public with the private. The counsellor, in the interrogation, spoke of not knowing what article to try to deny privatization. Well, I remind you that it is fixed by what the president of the National Federation of Private Clinics says. This lady told us these days, in a publication that really likes the spokesperson of the People's Party, that the autonomous communities that are currently harming private medicine are Valencia and Navarre. On the other hand, the ones that hold him most are Galicia and Madrid. He also justified Mr. Almuigna's beds closed all year in public health while drifting to private, saying that it would not be good to have open and unused beds. I want to remind you and tell, once again, Mr. Counsellor that what is not good management is to have closed beds and people years and years on the waiting list. And in addition, the counsellor cheerfully covered with anecdotes all the examples that the interpelent, Mrs. Prado, put upon her the intolerable waiting that people have to endure daily. I think, ladies and gentlemen, when you hear them talk so well about health, I think that you feel so overwhelmed, even the fire counselor who just arrived is already sober; but by the very remnants that you go, you can't hide reality; reality that we don't tire of reporting, but that you're already denouncing everyone. Without going further, the secretary-general of IDIS, Institute for Health Development and Integration, warns you that in recent years, with the People's Party governments, private health spending has increased by 7% and public health spending cut by more than 10%. And that's already 7.3 million people who have an additional coverage to the public system. As it grows, gentlemen, at a rate of 5% annually. Faced with this situation, he said: "Or public administrations take measures or privatising the health system will lead to the final overthrow of the public. But also -- and this is very interesting -- "to the collapse of private massification." So we'll run out of nothing, gentlemen. That is why we are going to support the motion put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. The People's Group has the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. After listening to the honourable Members who preceded me in speaking, and if I hadn't been Welsh or had lived in Galicia, I would really think that Greek public health is the worst in the world. But fortunately for the Greeks and the Greeks reality is quite different from what you describe. In the last survey that took place in Galicia, and we were talking about it this morning, 73% of the Greeks and Greeks value our health as good or very good. You're talking about cuts, you're talking about lack of transparency, demolition of public health, privatization of health. By the way, speaking of privatization, Mrs. Prado, counsellor Mr. Vázquez Almuína in his intervention in the past full, in the interpellation, quoted an article entitled "Austerity and health privatization in times of crisis. Are there any differences between autonomous communities?" It is conducted by researchers from the University of Basque Country. I don't know if you've read it before, but it's curious that one of the press reports referred to in this article says: "Galice reduced the recruitment with private health and raised the ratio of public beds." It's funny, it's curious, Mrs. Prado, because it doesn't seem to agree much with what you say about the Government of Feijóo, accusing him of privatizing the Welsh public health. But there's still more. In this study, it is said that the ratio of public beds for each private bed is the highest in the state. It's a rather strange form of privatization, isn't it? [[Applause]] I think if President Feijóo and the Government of Greece want to privatize the Greek health, that's why I think they're not doing very well, eh! [[Murmurs.]] In the interpellation you gave to the advisor he says textually: you – the People's Party – make a health policy that makes infamous waiting lists exist. We are accused of waiting lists, as if waiting lists were held only in communities where the People's Party is ruling. This isn't serious, Mrs. Prado, this is pure demagogy. What's going on in Andalusia? What's going on in Catalonia? What's going on in the Basque Country? No waiting lists? Resources, of course, are limited, and the surgeries are limited, and demand, as you know, is growing. And now you'll tell me: well, let's increase resources. Well, that's exactly what the German Government is doing. He's expanding hospitals: Salnès, Ourense, Coruña. It's building new hospitals: the new hospital in Vigo, which you all protest about this increase in resources; the truth is you don't understand: on the one hand, you lack resources, and on the other hand, when the government expands the hospital and if you build the hospital, you don't feel good about it either. Precisely, and to manage the waiting lists effectively, it is made the derivation of patients to private centers, so that the diagnostic tests and surgical interventions are performed. And this is done throughout the Spanish territory, in all the public health systems of Spain, regardless of its political colour: Catalonia, Basque Country, Castile-A Mancha. By the way, do you know what's going on in Castela La Mancha? For fifteen days ago in the media we found news such as: "They report massive leads of Castilla-La Mancha patients to private health, with the consent of Podemos." The general secretary of Podemos in that community defends – and I read textually – that "we will only allow justified leads to private health, but which considers these derivations as a necessary evil." Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary General of Podemos. And the opposition claims that "the budgets collect 15 million euros more for private health leads"... in a government of the Socialist Party supported by Podemos. [[Applause]] [[Interruptions.]] It seems that many of the drifts in Castilla-La Mancha are justified, not in Galicia, but in Castilla-La Mancha are justified. [[Murmurs.]] No comment, ladies. [[Murmurs.]] Also in Galicia, even when he ruled the Bipartite, they made private health concerts, and seeing the chart he showed, like, this morning the councilman – there they have, ladies –, in the period of the Bipartite increased the spending by 45.49%. As soon as a People's Party government arrived, spending between 2015 and 2016 was lowered, in a year, not in three years, in a year, in 2.8 million euros. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u145	If we're talking in particular about spending on concerts for referrals to private centers arranged between 2011 and... I know you don't like it, gentlemen, but you have to listen to reality... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u146	Please finish, Mrs Vispo. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u147	...you have to listen, just like we listen to you. Between 2011 and 2015 it has been reduced by 13.3%, and this corroborates – this will be less like – the last health privatization report of the Association for the Defence of Public Health, Mrs. Acuña, which you like so much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u149	Finished, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u150	Quiet, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u151	They just don't let me finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u152	You have to finish now, Mrs. Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u153	Mrs. Acuña, spending on private concerts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u154	Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u155	...in Galicia a eleventh place in the seventeen autonomous communities; that is, Galicia has ten autonomous communities above that spend much more on private health...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u156	Thank you, Mrs Vispo. Thank you, Mrs Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u157	...in Catalonia, Madrid, Asturias and Basque Country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u158	Thank you, Mrs Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u159	Finished, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u160	No, you don't have a word anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u161	I'm just finishing by saying that when they're in government they do things and when they're in opposition, others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u162	Thank you, Mrs Vispo. Thank you, Mrs Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u163	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u164	Thank you, Mrs Vispo. Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Gallego, silence, please! Quiet. Now, if you're all right, you have the floor to speak to the author of the initiative. Mrs. Prado, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u165	Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, the only thing that comes from your intervention, first of all, is that you have a well-greasy bench – it's okay – and the second thing that you deduce is that because there are other criminals who are stealing rights to the population, who are making an essential right as health in business for friends, do not exempt them from being complicit with the same criminals and applying policies in the same direction, do not exempt them, do not exempt them. [[Applause]] Look, everything is very rich and very abundant, but look, at the seven thousand and peak of patients who are on waiting list at the EOXI of Ourense, what do you tell them, what is it about your EOXI, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo? What do you tell them? Because that's a lot of things, but this is official, from your board, officer. What do you tell them? What do you tell the 800s who've been over two years, you answer them? That in Andalucia they have worse. Ah! I think they'll be very quiet, eh! The next thing you can put there in the claim books is to say, well, in Burundi they don't have health care, so they're going to stay very calm. It's just that they should have a little bit of shame, you know? So, we're talking about reality, and it's not that we invented a speech, it's their sheets: programming glues, seven thousand and peak, eight thousand and eight hundred that have been over two years. Look, 1,747 on the waiting list for ophthalmology, for example. You want me to keep telling you? What do you tell all those people the People's Party? Let's just calm down, let's see who's going through the worst? Just like they say to those who charge 400 euros, what's quiet, who pays for going to work? Is that your situation? Look – I certainly don't have time – I could also tell you to reply to this person that so much waiting list here because he doesn't want to go to a private center. Why don't you want to go? Because they know it's worse attendance and because they have the right, in addition, to be attended to in a public center. Because you only passed the Law of Guarantees, in fact, to give you legal coverage to derive from the private, to fatten your pockets to the private, they made it exclusively for that. We've already said that, and now it's the finding, that they have thousands of people on waiting lists to be able to justify that they derive them and give them business to private health. But who does it happen to? It's like the one who's got lots and instead of growing them up and he's going to pay the neighbor for renting them to grow potatoes there. You're doing exactly the same thing. They have closed public resources, they have closed beds, they have 600 closed beds in six years, they have closed surgeries, although they have approved in this Parliament that would be operational in the afternoon, they have unfinished infrastructure, they have infamous contracts for hours, they have staff reductions, while they result in private health. But that's your goal, your ideological objective. And indeed, in the rest of the Spanish state there are many governments – the vast majority – that respond to the same neoliberal scheme of lending to capitalism, to the capital, a public resource such as health. Of course they do just like them, bad, bad, obviously. BNG defends public health, universal, free...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u166	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u167	...for most of the population, not to fatten a few, not for the benefit of a few, not for you to give them to friendly companies, most even venture capital outside of Galicia. Above all, they privatize companies from outside, hand over the country to bits and the public health of Galicia, above, to companies from outside, which they don't even invest here. You should have a little shame...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u168	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u169	...and don't go out with so much pride out there sucking at something that there's no chest possible. So, I, of course, don't know which side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u171	...transparency – there's Mr. Núñez Centeno, yes, he's behind him, I thought he wasn't. It's time for transparency. Of which, Mr. Núñez Centeno? What transparency are we talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u173	The People's Party, of course, is not about the task of getting to know a single data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. We moved on to the next G.P. motion. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the health care that is being provided in Sergas in cases of abortion. G.P. motion. on the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the health care that is being provided in Sergas in cases of abortion and the demand to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u175	Two amendments will be tabled to this initiative: one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u176	For your defense, Mrs. Solla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u177	Thank you, President. Well, we suppose the same success – we don't know – for this motion, the same thing that happened with the interpellation in the past full. In the past plenary, this honourable Member questioned the Health Counsellor, Mr Vázquez Almuña, for the conditions under which esenetic abortions are being given in the Galician Health Service, and the answer – for the truth – could not be more disappointing, even if it has passed at the present time. In fact, he didn't answer most of the questions, of the interpellations. She didn't clarify why, having public health, women have to undergo abortions in the second quarter in private clinics in Madrid, and those transfers that brought in couples, in case they want adequate attention. He didn't tell us any of this, and, more out of ignorance – that I don't believe it, because, considering his profession, the doubt – or trying to confuse us, he moved us that women received analxia; he tried to make us believe that an anesthesia and anesthesia was the same, and, of course, as if they administered paracetamol was just like an epidural or something like that, right? That's what moved us in the past. Professional specialist anesthesia, and that's precisely what there is and the reason for the claims that women individually put in, but above all through the Right to Abortion Platform. To deny the biggest saying, moreover, that attention is the right one, well, to describe to us a protocol that moved here, that you could practically understand that it was the protocol of VVI, not the protocol of abortions in the second quarter, a voluntary interruption of pregnancy, I don't know if it's really meant to try to confuse by counsellor or ignorance or to deinterest on the subject. And besides, in a rage of arrogance, he said that if women were allowed to be accompanied by relatives during the trial. In addition, they should be forced to stay alone in the room. What's going on is that one goes to a hospital supposedly to receive health care, not just to be accompanied by his and his relatives. It's the professionals and the professionals who have to provide that health care, and as much as nurses and nurses from the gynecology plants can work, they don't fill in all the care they should provide from others and from other professionals, such as matrons or matrons or anesthesia personnel or the gynecology staff. We're talking about childbirth at the end; even if it's induced abortions, it's operating, it's acting like a birth. So he not only answered with arrogance, with a desire to confuse or even obvious the very questions we asked him, but the only one who said with some sense of non-compliance. He told us here, he moved us that around a week would be available, because I suppose from the public opinion, but also from the honourable Members, a report on what was happening in connection with abortions. And it turns out that, after almost fifteen days, we don't know anything about that report today. I wonder where he is; he doesn't exist; we don't know whether they're doing it or not, but he told us here that the Medical Inspectorate was going to make a report; we don't know anything at all. The truth is, it's an absolute lack of interest on the part of the Health Council, and we understand that on the part of the Government, because if, fifteen days ago, we had to wait a month to be able to interview him and come, because we already said that he didn't come by himself – his own request could have come, and he didn't even accept the audiences we were asking for from the groups to come in and we had to use the interpellation to come in, because even worse on it would put if fifteen days later we didn't have any kind of response, nor even that fictitious report that he was going to be on the table. He's not the one who's affecting obstetric violence. It will certainly deny even more that this happens. And besides, the license was allowed to use a micromachism of those such as those said Fiadeiras – of micro have nothing – a virtually manual: to question the women who suffered because of this unfortunate process, this unfortunate attention in the Galician Health Service, saying that if there were so many women, why there were no such complaints, why there were no written complaints. I would like this gentleman – he is not now – who questions these women, if he put them in his place and imagine that whoever loses a child or a daughter, besides wanted in the case of euretic abortions, had to add to him because he does it alone or alone in a room or without the possibility of such anesthesia. I'd like you to put yourself in your place and think if it's normal or if it's nice that, even on top of all this abuse, you have to wait until you remember to go there too because that claim, when what you want will be so forgotten – among you, that you will not be able to forget – because that treatment that was provided to you in public health, in addition to having lost your son or daughter. However, here, because the problem is women who don't file complaints. This can't be the truth, it can't be, and first of all we ask in this House, before we talk about the respective related attention, which is being responded to the written claims, because not only were there none of the existing claims, but even though they had on the table the claims that the Right to Abortion Platform had made since the summer, these were not answered in writing, and that was why they had to be transferred through the media. Secondly, let us be informed of this Parliament, since it has not been discussed, of the reason why these women are derived, to practice those interruptions of pregnancy, those esenetic abortions, in Madrid. We didn't move the reason, which was the cause; absolutely nothing. But there is more, in the Committee on Health the day after the debate of the plenary, the Director General for Health Care of Sergas, Mr Aboal, gave a data – I repeat – of the board, which indicated that for voluntary interruptions of pregnancy – we are now talking about VE – and up to 22 weeks, as envisaged by law, only 7.7% are made in public health, 7.7%; that cannot be. It is true that the Sexual and Reproductive Health Act did not establish the right to public health care, did it? And it was also part of the debate, some of the amendments of my political organization during the processing of that law. It is also true that, with the current Health Insurance Act – we spoke about it before – this right could not be guaranteed within public health. But 7,7 percent of us believe it's not receipt, that if it's a right to health, it has to be provided in public health; it's not receipt, it's not normal. We're not talking about outsourcing 5%, we're talking about practically the whole thing being done in private health. And besides, he gave another more serious data: he recognized that there are places in public centers where no abortions are made on conscientious objection. I was amazed. We knew that this existed, but he also gave us the terrible fact that in the whole Hospital Complex of Ferrol, or in the Coast, the Navy was shining, or in Ourense, no abortions are made by conscientious objection, no IVE – we are talking about voluntary interruptions of pregnancy – they are not being practiced by conscientious objection. But this is it! I said it in the previous plenary. If a person, for his religious beliefs, said: oh, no!, I don't administer a blood transfusion, would they allow him to do that? Are they going to allow a healthcare professional not to administer a blood transfusion? No, I hope not, I suppose not. Why, then, when we talk about women's rights, if that conscientious objection is tolerated, even though it goes against the common right of women to abide by that law? which is a law, in addition. I mean, he's got no explanation. When we discussed in this House last year, we approved the Law for People in a Terminal Situation, the whole group supported an amendment to this group, by Alternative Left Gaga, which eliminated in that initial project the possibility of objection of consciousness concerning people in a Terminal Situation, because man!, it would only be lacking that because of – between quotes – or by the decision of an individual other person did not receive a sedation. For with this the same thing happens, the same thing happens, and we therefore ask that they address the central government to remove that objection of conscience, at least in public health, because what cannot be said is that, when we are talking about civil servants and public officials, if we are allowed to take the fulfilment of a right lightly. I mean, an individual positioning can never be above a general right, and if we apply it to the rest of the laws, including the People's Party itself, when we talk about the other one I just named, it has to be applied to compliance in this too. And we want the techniques in public health to be practiced. We don't understand this point, and therefore we put it into law. And we understand that there may be some kind of intervention that requires more expertise, which is more problematic. Well, okay, but then you'll have to have – and so we ask for it in the motion – at least two services, one north and the other south, to provide coverage in Galicia, which can practice in public health these voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and these esenetic abortions in the second quarter. I mean, more means for professionals, more professionals in public health, reorder it if necessary with them and with them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u179	...and eliminate that conscientious objection, but compliance with women's rights cannot be voluntary. Nothing else for now and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Intervention of parliamentary groups. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u181	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you, President. This Left Gate Alternative motion will count on the affirmative vote of the Joint Group, but we present this amendment to replace paragraph 5 of the resolution text, because the amendment in it also includes the right – which is also a right – to the objection of conscience of health personnel to abortion in this case. It is a subjective right, contemplated in the Vigilent Legislation, but it is also a right to receive public health assistance from users who request this service, the right to termination service. It's a legal service, a legitimate service, owned by a democratic society, and also by a confederal state, supposedly. Calling on the Government to create a register of conscientious objector personnel is a step that we consider to be key to organizing health resources and ensuring abortions in public health. We understand that the law must allow conscientious objection, a list, a process, but the benefit must be guaranteed, the right to abortion, and conscientious objection cannot and should not prevent legal practice. The legislative ambiguity, also political and social, between the right to abort in public health and the conscientious objection of health personnel is often responsible for women who are not guaranteed this right and who are prosecuted for fulfilling their obligation. Also, judges who interpret legislation by answering their own moral codes, managers of public health who don't articulate the means to make possible abortion and politicians and policies that don't want to respect women's individual rights. The subjective right to object is used as a sort of sabotage by people of conservative Catholic morals to impose their beliefs and morality, making it difficult – when not hindering – the right of women to be assisted and cared for when they decide or have nothing else to undergo an abortion intervention. It would suffice to take a brief look at the hemerotheque to see the current situation of conflicts of conscience in the field of health, but most of the time the controversy and demands revolve only around professional awareness rights, and, except for exceptions, it is very rare to find the views of people who use public health, that these people face, without knowing it and without doubt, with the opposition of the health care staff to perform an IVE. On the other hand, this procedure – the voluntary interruption of pregnancy – is the main health procedure objected, so it has to have a regulation. Which makes women see themselves again, and again, subject to a situation of double domination by the professional who exercises his power, as users and as women. The list proposed by the amendment is key – or we consider it a key – to reconcile both rights: the objection and the right to receive this benefit in public health, since it allows or would allow preventive measures to be applied so that no woman remains without the benefit or is derived from a private clinic. If the number of objector specialists is known, new recruits, such as replacements, can always be used for the provision of this service in terms of quality and public conditions. I repeat: I reiterate our support for the Left Galician Alternative motion. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u182	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u183	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We're dealing with an extremely sensitive subject again today. We're talking about second trimester abortions, in many cases esenetic abortions due to severe disease or malformation of the fetus. The care protocol for eresenetic abortion is no different from a spontaneous abortion at all. This protocol, which fully described the health adviser in the past full, is perfectly adapted to international standards, endorsed by scientific societies and professional collectives. I suppose you will be aware of the various press releases of the Galician Society of Obstetrics and Xynecology, the Society of Maturities, the Maturities of the CHUAC and the nurses of the Teresa Herrera hospital itself. They claim that the said protocol exists, they defend the validity of it, and also that clinical practice is correct and that it respects the dignity and intimacy of women. Even the Greek gynaecologists have come to ensure that they are harassed by various movements that mark them as promoters of violence, taking into account that 70% of the professional people of tocoxinecology are women, and they are the ones who feel most offended. We do not understand from the Popular Parliamentary Group this opposition attitude of criminalizing public health managers, or professionals, who, as I have said, reject the claims of the Galician Platform for the Right to Abortion of the Crown, which was the entity that presented a written address to the EOXI of the Crown, the medical management and the nursing director of the Crown. In that writing, we question the protocol that applies to Sergas centers, based on a clinical guide to integral abortion care in the second quarter edited by Ipas, a non-governmental international organization dedicated, according to its own website, to eliminate preventable deaths and disabilities attributable to unsafe abortion. I believe that, today, in the Spanish State, there is no question of death or disability due to abortion. The protocol explained, as I said, the advisor. It has a first phase of information on options, techniques and informed consent, psychological attention continues to be available to the needs of the patient, an individual room practically in all cases, with the presence of a companion if the woman needs to enter. It is the gynecologist who informs the procedure and performs the pharmacological prescription corresponding to the follow-up. And here I want to talk about the epidural. Epidural, in these three protocols, in one of them doesn't appear at all; in one second, which is the management guide, says it's the last option after analgesics, intramuscular opioids, intravenouss, puts it as the last option; and in one of them it even speaks of that there's no clinical evidence that it's good for second trimester abortions. Continuing, the nursing staff gives women instructions and recommendations, the nurse sets up an individualized care plan, and of course the entire process away from the delivery area, as is logical, for obvious psychological reasons. In general, the procedure is performed by drug induction, controlled by the medical team and plant nursing. What is true is that the use of drugs in the process of dilating can, in fact, shorten the expulsion, which in some cases makes it difficult to assist during expulsion. If necessary, the evolution of the plant is monitored, reviewed by the doctor prior to discharge and issued a high-level report. Ladies and gentlemen, in the system You want to say the advisor that there is not a single claim – it is the system that receives them – neither presented by IVE nor by spontaneous abortions in the second quarter. If we know witnesses of some women appearing in the press. In addition, I personally know of a case that affected a person I know who came in contact with me to share their experiences when the news appeared in the press. The Provincial Prosecutor's Office of the Coruña has recently filed the information credentials initiated following the complaint filed by the care provided at the Mother and Child Hospital Teresa Herrera by the Platform. Even after that filing, the Health Council has already made public in this Chamber its willingness to investigate possible dysfunctions in the application of protocols. The Inspectorate is conducting an investigation into information on the lack of attention to esenetic abortions. I repeat again that today we know no complaints from any affected woman, only demonstrations in the press. From the Galician People's Parliamentary Group we agree with this research and we will be looking forward to it so that, if necessary, we can take the appropriate corrective measures. We believe the protocol is right and proper and we agree with the professional groups who defend it. That's why we present an amendment – they know – urging Junta to periodically review the care protocol for women who have to interrupt their pregnancy in the second quarter to adapt it to updated scientific evidence and correct any dysfunction in the application of the protocol or assistance provided to these women, if the ongoing investigation by the Medical Inspectorate had thus been certified, in order to improve health care as far as possible in these cases, as in any other situation or pathology addressed in the Galician Health Service. Waiting for the support of our amendment, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u184	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u185	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and also those who think they are students who accompany us in this debate. Indeed, we are addressing a very specific topic that was object of interpellation by the Alternative Galician Left and also of question by the Galego Nationalist Block in the previous full, which is the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the second quarter, exactly in the second quarter, after having been submitted by the Galaga Platform for the Defence of Abortion a claim in July and not finding any kind of response and after the women themselves who experienced this situation went out to the press to the public face. I would ask the People's Party, with all due respect, not to say they make a further complaint, because that's almost double victimization. It's to tell women that, if they don't report, they're silent and that, therefore, to some extent, they're guilty of that complaint coming to us. So I believe that the Council, from the moment it had on the table the denunciation of the Platform, must have brought in contact with the members, with the women on that platform, and analyzed, studying what the situation is, maybe when there are people who are health personnel who have also denounced that situation. And it's not a question here of confronting professionals, for nothing; that is, it's a question that the Council has to comply with a very clear law, which is the Women's Sexual and Reproductive Health Act, which ensures that women in the second quarter, given certain assumptions, have to have an abortion in public health with all guarantees of security. And what we're debating here is: do you realize security assurances? There are professionals who say they don't know the protocol of which the counsellor spoke the other day. The protocol is made public, and so is this research as we were told, and indeed, that all health personnel in all of Galicia – because this is a situation that comes out in the press in a health area like that of the Crown but that it extends and that women are living in the rest of Galicia – because it knows what that situation is. Why do women have to go to Madrid? Why don't you take care of public health in a safe way? Why aren't they accompanied? Because everything is a process in which that accompaniment is needed, not that they are left alone in the room. I don't need you to tell the advisor that they're accompanied by family members. Well, obviously, the family members, okay, well, but they have to be accompanied by the health personnel to do this accompaniment in case they have pain, not to undergo an expulsion by themselves of a 22-week fetus, which is a situation as frankly painful and complicated, and without attention to sedation or epidural. It's a situation that women counted as a horrible situation and we also read to the councilman himself exactly what the description of women made of that situation was. I believe that the People's Party or the Council of Health should not take to the defense the complaint made by the Platform, but on the contrary: trying to collaborate with the Platform, which are women very committed for years and many decades from the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and see what the situation is that these women are living and put the means and resources of professionals, professionals, midwives, not reducing matrons' squares but increasing them, so that these women are accompanied, and they do not decide to travel to Madrid to a private clinic because they will be more accompanied or because they feel they will be safer or because they will be faster and they won't be, well, how they live in public health these abortions, absolutely – and so they say – abandoned. The Galego Nationalist Block has always defended that abortion is a right of women, that must be in public health and that must be safe abortions. But here we are talking about esenetic abortions in the vast majority of them, that is, women who want that son or daughter are forced – because they have a malformation, because they are not viable – to undergo that abortion. With which I don't understand the objection of consciousness, I don't understand it in all its extension. But in particular, if we stick to the debate in the second quarter, I cannot understand that there are health professionals who in the face of this desperate situation of women decide to object; it is that it is absolutely incomprehensible, and that, in addition, the law is not changed or that the Health Council does not give the proper instructions so that there can be no conscientious objection at least in those cases of esenetic abortions. I believe that, in addition, it is a very important debate that clearly affects women's rights but that interferes with what we understand is conscientious objection. Can, when something is vital to a person's health or life, a health professional refuses to do so? I honestly think it's one of the few spaces where that can happen. And in abortions in the second quarter, in esenetic abortions, there is conscientious objection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u187	...when they are fundamental issues that affect the life of that woman or the viability of the fetus. We will support this initiative. And, in fact, we hope that both the Council and the People's Party, in particular – I don't mean all the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy – in the second quarter, recapacitate, to meet people who have been working on this for many decades and to guarantee safe abortions in public health. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Ferreiro Vidarte.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u189	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group will support this motion, although we do not give up on improving conditions at the next time and we are able to get this government to solve the problem that every woman can interrupt their pregnancy in the public social security system and in their reference hospital. I think it would be the right thing to do. But at the entrance, we accept that it can be done in two units within Galicia, as long as, of course, it is done in accordance with international standards. Look, since a law of abortion was passed thirty years ago, a law of abortion, first, which was decriminalizing in several assumptions, and second, a law of deadlines, evidently always with the opposition of the PP, which, on the one hand, preaches one thing, does another and then says he did what he didn't do. , of course, at this moment it is absolutely dementive as this theme is being dealt with by the People's Party, because, indeed, that if they were so against the law they did not modify it even when they had an absolute majority with Aznar or now with Mr. Rajoy. [[Applause]] Well, now yes, they have now changed it to bother children under the age of 16 and 17, so they are unprotected, because there are some - few - cases that cannot deal with this subject with their parents, but most of them do have that relationship and didn't have any problems. Well, gentlemen, you break this law from the first moment to the end, you don't follow it in almost nothing. If you realize it, this law is not just an abortion law, it's a sexual and reproductive health law, and this part is not familiar with anything, they haven't done the slightest attempt to comply with it in their aspects of sexual and reproductive health. Look, you haven't trained anyone in your careers, in your studies, so much about medicine, nursing, health professions, and not in your teaching either. They didn't do anything like that, and they had all the competence to get these professionals, when they did their job, to have that preparation. Nothing has been done either in the training of healthcare professionals who have to intervene in a second quarter pregnancy case. Neither were they prepared for anything in the management of abortion; this is not learned in the race, nor is it learned if it is not formed later. That law also provided for sexual education in schools, in the school curriculum; nothing was done at all. And he also predicted that there would be affordable contraceptive methods for all women and men who needed them and more economically affordable; well, that was not done either. It is not easy for women who may have repetitive abortions to have adequate methods to prevent this situation; nothing has been done either. You see the subject as if it didn't exist, let it go. And if you have abortions in Galicia, it's thanks to many professionals who have made a tremendous effort at the expense of the critics of their own partners, but who, when they really have a problem in this regard, if they come to the professionals who perform abortions, then they have to solve that problem. But don't think about women in general, you have very little sensitivity to women. They also violate the law at a time when these women are pregnant if they wish at the moment but cannot end it because of their medical conditions. They are not given the right information. It's a lie, Mr. Núñez Centeno, that gynecologists report on this subject. Those who report on this issue – and not at all – are the family planning centers. And not at all, because in some of them, it's just to give them a Madrid address and fix yourself as you can; second, in others, at most, tell them: you have to go to Madrid or you have to go to that place; and in other cases, it's just to tell them: go to the clinic and they solve the problem. There's such a big difference throughout Galicia over this issue, such a huge inequality, that once again women feel completely discriminated against. Look, in the Coruña, for example, at the Family Planning Center, the woman who comes first to the Family Planning Center is informed of all the possibilities she has and explains what the method consists of, both in the private clinic and in the hospital. And it's the woman I choose, which is what the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health contemplates; the woman has the right to choose the method by which to interrupt this pregnancy. From that moment on, the woman chooses and then enters the hospital or attends the private clinic in Madrid. And there's the second discrimination. In the Coruña they pay for the displacement with certain money...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u191	...and in Lugo, for example, less than the third part. They don't receive the same payment from women who come to Madrid de Ourense or from Lugo or from Coruña women. Come on, amazing right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u193	Yes. Finally, tell him that, look, I've been doing some calculations and hiring a mater's or nurse's staff to be part of a team in a hospital anyone could assume by the year 135,000 euros. How much does it cost – that they didn't say to us – to bring Madrid to the private clinics the interruption of women who abort moving from Galicia? I think, if you apply the part of attention to women, which is the main one, and ask you to have a little sensitivity to this subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u195	...because it's not so serious. If they're not able to respond to 11% of women who have this problem in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u197	...you are not worthy to represent...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u199	...the women in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u200	Motion author group. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u201	Thank you, President. Firstly, I would like to thank the support of the opposition groups. I appreciate the amendment of the Joint Group, even if we're not going to accept it. We do believe that conscientious objection cannot be acceptable within public health, I have already explained the reasons. We understand that when a professional or a professional works at the service of the generals of citizenship or population, he has to comply with those rights, and they cannot be conditioned to which one wants to or does not comply with them. It happens, as I explained earlier, that this is already discussed, concerning, for example, terminally ill people, and the People's Party itself supported this amendment of AGE that called for no conscientious objection to the sick and terminally ill. And women's rights must be the same. But there is also another circumstance concerning voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. It also happened when the 2010 Law was passed and conscientious objection was allowed, that many of the objects or objects are not for ethical reasons, sleep because as they were – we say – simply rejected to perform these techniques, they did not simply want to be doing these techniques. That is to say, what we have - we have to do in the initiative - is give more material means, human media and reordinate workers, workers, professionals, what attention is being given. That's the problem. It has to be a right, it has to be obliged to comply and human and material means must be provided. None of that was said by the People's Party. And the amendment to replace the People's Party, obviously we're not going to accept it, because it's an amendment as a step-by-step to justify your vote against it. Of course, you haven't spoken about most of the points in the initiative, and they're not even considered in the amendment. I mean, here we ask that the claim be answered. What's the problem with answering in writing? I don't understand. We call on Parliament to be informed in writing of the reason for the transfers to Madrid. What's their problem? You haven't even spoken about it. Let international standards be adopted, what's the problem? I don't understand the truth. And that two reference units will be generated. You haven't spoken about the IVE either, but about the reference units, if you've recognized that these transfers were carried out to Madrid, even though we haven't been told what the reason was here, the reason has to be that the attention given to them isn't the same as the attention given to them here. So you can't say that you are meeting the protocols here, that all rights relating to an abortion – in this case, in the second quarter – are given, because otherwise there would be no option of transferring them to Madrid. The case is, there's a difference, there if they're given other care. So what we're asking is that this care that you are now suffering from in private health can be done in Galicia, with public professionals, with public media, and for that by generating reference centers. I'm also in favour of doing this in all hospitals where VlVs are also practiced; where they are not practiced, because it should be so. But let's start at least by having some kind of unit where professionals specialize, because up to now nothing is being done at all, and we've been applying the law for five years. Therefore, this amendment is – and I finish already – a reason simply, an excuse, not to support this motion. And we know which side is the People's Party, which obviously is not the women's side.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the entry into force of the Royal Decree of Prescription of Nursing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u203	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion you have the word to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again, gentlemen. We have a serious problem, because with the entry into force of the Royal Decree on Nursing Prescription, of the 24th of last December, on the day of Noiteboa, the nursing activity that is being carried out in Galicia, both in public and in private, is being done illegally. Real decree I have to remind you that it has been unilaterally modified by the Ministry of Health in the last minute and from back to back to the nursing. In connection with this serious problem, we asked the Counsellor; by the way, once he refused to come in to discuss this matter. In that debate, we could see that Mr. Almuña is pleased to meet and that he does not know, or does not want to know, the mess he's been riding, because he intended to make us believe that the problem here in Galicia was solved by an information note, that is, signed by him. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about a state legislation in vigil. It is, of course, due to the fact that the ministerial text itself is not collected, which emphasizes: "it is governed by Article 149 of the Constitution, which confers exclusive competence on the State in the matter of the basis and general coordination of health". So someone will have to explain to Mr. Almuínña that an information note from a councillor does not exempt from the fulfilment of a royal decree, no matter how firm it takes from the councillor. But let's look at what the board says in that briefing note. No doubt, curiously, that he recognizes that the Royal Decree of Nursing Prescription conflicts with the care activity. And I read to you, ladies and gentlemen, textually a few fragments of this information note: "However, above this reality, the care activity and the guarantee of care in health care centres and institutions of the various health services and providers must continue. And for the sake of continuity and the proper organizational functioning that all health administrations are responsible for, and until they develop and materialize the aspects contained in the Royal Decree, health professionals, both prescribing and nurses – understanding that nurses and prescribers should not be affected by this problem... intolerable sexist, machist language, when we are talking, in addition, of a sector as feminine as is the nursing! – "will act in accordance with the provisions of the applicable legal order prior to the actual decree, the Law of Guarantees and Rational Use of the 2006 drug, since its normative rank is superior to that of any regulatory standard" I mean, smoothly and flatly, that in order to work, you don't heed the decree. In addition, this information note concludes by stating that the civil and heritage responsibility of the professional of the Sergas nursing - we continue with machismo - is covered in terms and conditions established in the policy." Well, let's see what experts, jurists say, consulted on this information note: First. That it doesn't solve anything, for it's a mere note of information; for a long time, that it does, that it is signed by Mr. Almouniña. Second. It is not understood that it is the health administration itself who encourages us not to comply with the binding legislation, for, until it is repealed, the royal decree is in force, and therefore it is law and it has to be respected. Third. That both civil liability insurance subscribed to by health administrations, as well as by nursing professionals themselves, will never assume the compensation arising from a problem if it is not being complied with by the legislation governing it, and it will be the professional person he will have to respond to with his own property. In the inquiry we already pointed out to the Counsellor that the royal decree is impossible to comply with, because nursing, ladies and gentlemen, does not have that state accreditation – that is! – that if you are required to indicate any medication, whether or not that medication is subject to medical prescription. And besides, ladies and gentlemen, it will take time to have it, especially if it is only the responsibility of the State. Furthermore, we now have no guide or protocol that regulates nursing care, for they have all been annulled precisely by that very real decree, and until some time we will not be able to have new protocols and new guides, since they will also have to come through state. In the face of this situation, there are only two ways left for us, as we said in the interpellation. If the council agrees to be collected in the royal decree, at least a transitional provision should be required for the ministry to suspend that royal decree until it relies on the accreditations and guides of the new protocols. And if the council doesn't agree, I'd have to go through that real decree, like, by the way, they've made other autonomous communities, unions and nursing schools. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is clearly against what seems to us to be an inexplicable retreat. Inexplicable retreat! We walked into the specialty of nursing, we walked to the attention of chronic patients through the resources that the nursing has, and our opposition was expressed by Mr. Sánchez, committed to his derogation in the event of having government responsibilities. For all this, and in order to try to remedy this whole mess, we present this motion, in which we take six measures that seem logical to us, which seem consistent and which are also legal. The first, by asking the Government of the Union to request the outgoing ministry, the ministry in function, the paralyzing and the derogation of that royal decree – I insist – of impossible fulfilment. The second one. To demonstrate the commitment to the powers in the health of our autonomous community by resorting to the Constitutional Court a decree that clearly, ladies and gentlemen, invades our powers. And it invades our powers to the point of claiming that the development of operating guides will have to be approved by the Ministry of Health. Third. That replaces the information note with something more serious, clear and compromised instructions for our health care staff. And I'm talking about health personnel, because this royal decree, ladies and gentlemen, has an impact not only on nursing, but, of course, also on professionals and medical professionals. To review the health insurance policy of the Autonomic Health Administration, so that you can actually assume the responsibilities in which Galician nursing personnel may be indicted in the face of this created situation after the adoption of the royal prescription decree. That you listen to the nursing, in addition to all the nursing, to each and every one of your representatives, to modify the wording of that decree that – I insist – only brings us back. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for an interterritorial council, in which the competences of the autonomous communities are ratified in the face of such clear interference by the central government. Waiting to count on the support of the other groups, for now, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u206	The opposition against Royal Decree 954/2015 of 23 October, which regulates – or better prohibits – the indication, use, use and dispensation of medicinal products and medical products for human use by nurses and nurses, is only serving to create a war between medical and nursing schools. The regulation prevents nurses from working with agility, because it requires individual and nominative medical clearance before using a drug. They can only facilitate drugs with accreditation and protocols that do not yet exist. The controversy is centered on Article 3.2, which says textually that it will be necessary for nursing staff to carry out medication actions to the medical prescription of the corresponding professional, so that they can use it. The acceptance of Article 3.2, as drafted, implies that at present the nursing staff would have to stop performing many of the functions they perform autonomously, and it is not feasible today to assume these functions by the medical staff. Apart from not being assumed by medical personnel according to their own ratios and workload, it's completely illogical to use medical personnel, to hire medical personnel, to perform functions that really throughout Europe are performing nursing staff. The royal decree is not affecting the provision of health services because nursing professionals continue to act in their day to day as they came before the royal decree. Therefore, it is essential to take the necessary measures to guarantee legal security, since, by treating patients as they do, they end up having legal security problems because now the law prevents them from caring for these patients, and Sergas does nothing. It simply lets things happen, until the problem arises, and when the problem arises, surely who will be punished and who will be guilty will be the nursing staff and not Sergas himself, who prevents the staff from performing their work, through the application of this royal decree, or who also prevents them from recruiting low nursing staff. Of course, who imposed this royal decree completely does not know the health and health of our country. But what is most surprising is the contempt this royal decree shows for the nursing profession and its contribution to the improvement of the health system. Thus, the Spanish General Nursing Council's study office, in its Report on Health Human Resources in Spain and the European Union 2014, collected that in Europe there are 29.06 % doctors, compared to 70.94 % nursing staff; a distribution of 70-30 – 70 nursing staff, 30 medical staff – which is considered efficient for the study's authors. On average, in the European Union of 28, there are ratios of 811 nurses or nurses and 322 doctors per 100,000 inhabitants. In Galicia the ratios are 501 nurses – i.e. 300 nurses less per 100,000 inhabitants than in Europe – and 425 doctors – i.e. 100 physicians more average than in Europe. We're hiring optional staff to do nursing work, and therefore it's a real absurd policy. It seems obvious that nursing staff can take on a lot more work, a lot more responsibilities, with their training because they are doing so in Europe. In the Spanish state, however, it seems that the purpose of denigrating the nursing profession to a completely medical-dependent sub-professional profession is to denigrate. Because health is much more than medicine. Health is much more than surgery. Health involves daily care to the patient, also psychological care to the patient and also attention to the families who accompany these patients, something that does not do the medical staff, that passes a view that lasts 5 or 10 minutes, at most, but the rest of the day, when they are in the hospital, are cared for by nursing staff, who really knows the patient, their families and the problems involved in it. It is essential to put your feet on the ground and not start with these nonsense of decrees, these crazy lies that you're lying about the health reality, a reality that exists only for you, and to accommodate this debate to society as a whole; society's participation is necessary to achieve the health system that we want. And besides with a nursing staff who, if they really recognize the functions that they can perform according to their training, we would have a medical staff longer to care for the patients, more time to investigate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u207	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u208	...more time to study. A medical staff who had actually done the work of the medical staff, not that he had dedicated himself to doing nursing work. And to finish – it's out of time, I know, president – I also want to mention this invasion of competence, because this joint government is no longer the government's refusing to claim competence constantly, but it also voluntarily renounces the few that it has. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u210	Thank you, President. We shall vote in favour of this motion. The truth is that what the Ministry of Health, the People's Party, has done is a total disaster in this field. One of the first things learned in the nursing career, which we learn from the basics of the career, is the type of activities of this profession, speaking of a profession that is unique, that does not depend on any other, that is compatible and has to cope with others, such as medicine, as it can be physiotherapy, as it can be occupational therapy or with other health professions. All health professions must develop them, and they must be coordinated in multidisciplinary teams for the health benefit of the entire population. So in the fundamentals you learn exactly what the functions of the profession are, what the interdependent functions and what the dependent functions of other professionals are. It seems that everyone has made it clear to everyone except the ministry, which is curious, because for a long time it is precisely the prescription of nursing a claim of the profession, concerning a habitual activity that has been done for a long time, but that it did not have a legal protection in this sense. And by this decree, the ministry seems to have wanted to regulate it, but it really left us a situation far worse than we had before, because, in relation to the prescriptions of all these things that we already worked on, the situation is much worse. I think of a common activity that we do in nursing: prevention; treatment and attention, for example, to pressure ulcers or diabetic foot ulcers or something like that. Because that diagnosis was done by us, that treatment was administered by us, and let's say that until now there was no problem. I mean, now for the usual treatments that I already used the nursing itself, like it could be a hydrocoloid or how it can be another treatment for what we're already formed, we need a permit from the ministry, to do something for what we're already trained for during the career. Besides, by talking about those activities of medical prescriptions, which are actually dependent on their administration, we now have an added problem. I mean, not only are new rights regulated, but they worsen the reality of what we had, because, as explained here, the decree is so disastrous that it conditions such administration of medical guidelines to a specific authorization by the ministry. That is, at present, as already explained, we would be continuously - the nurses who are working and the nurses who are working - violating the effective legality because there is no such authorization. It's a totally rocky situation. Not only was this legal certainty not provided when it was requested to prescribe what is not of medical prescription, that is, those products that were already used in nursing, but also that legal insecurity was instituted, because nurses and nurses who are working on those functions dependent on medical prescriptions, in fact, without being within legality, could not be working and working like this. But you're also giving me another doubt. We were now commenting that, even if this permission had been issued, it is not regulated as it will be. How are we going to do in all those activities that are not, say, the single administration? Will there be a permit every time we have to do this? Is it going to be regular in any way? The reality is that it was a little bit of putting the car down before the oxen. We have a decree on the table that is to be respected already, which leaves nurses and nurses in absolute illegality, and we don't know how it will be possible to do so that no greater problems will arise in the future. The reality is that you've tried to patch up here, in the council, with a note that doesn't solve anything at all and that leaves us in the same defence that we've been in since this decree was passed. It doesn't make any sense. Because if there is a problem – the PSdeG proposes the insurance policy issue – with the administration of a drug, what will be the consequences?: the nursing staff that manages it, obviously. In the end, it's always the professionals who pay the consequences of government inoperability, and it can't be. Therefore, we must demand that this decree be repealed. We need to sit down with the professionals, with their representatives, and generate a decree that is consistent with the claims and that is consistent with the applicable legality. This isn't normal. And, of course, the Health Council, within its competences, and as called for by the trade union centres, must request that this commission be convened where all autonomous communities meet and can be decided that it is the most appropriate one. We can't be allowing our skills to be invaded, we can't be leaving the professionals – in this case of nursing – in a tremendous legal insecurity. I mean, when something goes wrong, there's a need to recognize it and put a remedy on it, don't keep putting more patches. We understand that this is not a normal situation and that, in the face of this defence, the People's Party should respond consistently. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u212	Good afternoon. The Galician Nationalist Block will also support this initiative. During the morning, we heard praise to professionals on several occasions. First praise to the counselor and then praise to the health spokesman of the People's Party by praising the great work of the professionals. A lot of praise and a lot of demagogy, isn't it? Because then, at the time of truth, that praise to professionals is not translated into real performances, performances that dignify and facilitate the work of professionals. And that this dignity and ease of work translates into better public health and a better quality of care. We have spoken on many occasions of the most important transcendental role of nursing staff in health care, but then – I insist – it will not always agree with the decisions that have been made. We're here with the approval of Royal Decree 954/2015, in front of what I, of course, have no sense of calling a real normative hat; that is, there are things that can't be kept worse. We are again, again, in the face of a normative act made of turned backs to the professionals. It's made of turned backs to the professionals, where it hasn't been dialogueed, where the text that soon got the approval is not what theoretically had happened to the opinions of the professionals. We are in a sort of order and command that we don't have much clear to what interests you have and to whom you want to be content with this decree, because what is clear at this point and what if you have managed to put all the nursing professionals – normal that they have done so – and a battle between nursing and optional that – I insist – of course, what is not easy and what does not favor is a better quality of care, a good work climate, and no better for anything. The regulatory development of the real legislative decree, the recasted text of the Law on guarantees of rational use of the medicine, made in this way theoretically intends to regulate the indication, use and authorization of the dispensation of medicinal products and medical products of human use by the nursing staff. We don't know if here who wants to be happy is who's going to do the accreditations, who's going to do the accreditation courses, or who's really in the middle. What is evident is that there are already too many voices that have been shown contrary to this royal decree, with which it is evident that it has not done well. So besides agreeing that the way it was done was not the right one, neither was the bottom one. There are nursing sectors that consider it illegal, harmful to the professional collective. It is clear that the application is confusing, and it is clear that the instruction carried out by the Council is an attempt to want – so to say - to say here nothing happens, but legal insecurity is more than patent, with which it seems obvious that, if the Council considers that the application of this real decree should not be done and that there is insecurity, what cannot be sent is a clarification instruction, what it has to be wet, so we agree with what the initiative presents. And, of course, what the Government of Greece has to do is exercise as such, exercise of the Government of Wales, as they have already done a very important number of other governments of autonomous communities: Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Navarre, Catalonia, Extremes, who have intercepted litigation-administrative resources and unconstitutional resources, that is, they have shown themselves contrary to this norm by invading once again competences that are their own. The Government of the State, Madrid, comes back in such a way, of order and command, trying to regulate matters that are not of its competence, so we agree with the aspects that this initiative demands and we will vote for it. And it would be good if for once, as we have already sued on countless occasions, the People's Party, and the Government of the People's Party, had exercised such a government, had put on the side of the professionals, on the side of health, and had crawled over the table, and had told Madrid that things can't be done like that; that they can't be done even by the bottom of the mess they've put together or by form; that Galicia now has competences in health. It would be good if, for once, if I'd planted and said we're here, we're a government and we're exercising it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Iñiguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u214	Good afternoon, everyone. Today we bring here the debate the prescription of nursing. The real decree as stated here throughout the world is born with an end: to develop and improve the professional expectations of a health sector as important and fundamental as that of nursing in the health system, both in primary and specialized care. We must remember that in Spain today they work about 270,000 professionals. It must be shown that there has not been a healthy branch that has experienced similar growth over the last forty years. Since the formation, which lacked university rank in the 1970s, it was sufficient to own the 4th bachelor's degree, the extinct bachelor's degree, when the professionals were called practitioners and ATS. Until the early 1980s, no new nursing profession, with a degree of university diplomacy, appeared, three years of theoretical and practical study to which there was already access with COU and selectivity, as to any other university career. Currently they are no longer graduates, they are graduates, they already require four years of training, and from there they can access specialized training through the EIR system, similar to that carried out with doctors, pharmacists, biologists, chemists or psychologists. It is clear that the improvement of training and the acquisition of new knowledge involves new competences. The Galician Health Service has increased nursing skills. I didn't see anyone here talking about today that nursing professionals can make analytical requests so they can continue to control patients with chronic processes such as diabetes, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, obesity. They can also make microbiological petitions when they affect the cures they were carrying out. You don't have to ask your doctor for permission to make an analytical request. In 2006, the modification of the drug law allowed dentists and podologists to prescribe medicinal products and medical products for human use. Until that date, prescription was solely the competence of medical professionals. In this law the prescription of nursing was relegated, it took nine years for the Royal Decree 954/2015 to appear, which will allow the prescription. This decree, which entered into force at the end of December 2015, consists of three chapters, eleven articles and several additional, transitional and final provisions. It has two aspects that cause controversy in different groups, both are in Article 3.2. The first is the need to get an accreditation after a 180-hour course. And the second thing is, prior to prescription, there has to be a diagnosis, an indication and a protocol. I want to show that the majority of Sergas' staff in all their categories, from optional staff to cell, are governed by Law 55/2003, known as the Framework Statute, which governs in all communities and regulates the functions that correspond to each category; that is, the functions of a doctor, nursing, administrative, auxiliaries and janitors. It would be interesting if a lot of people had read the royal decree, because that way they could know what their functions are, especially when we talk about medical staff and nursing staff. This may condition that the royal decree has collided with this law, because in that law it clearly specifies what the functions of the doctor and the nurse are. To finish, I wanted to remind you that this royal decree was travelled by the SATSE and the, pretending to be the cautious suspension of Article 3.2. The Supreme Court has now denied this precautionary suspension, and today we have been aware that it has also rejected an appeal by the Balearic Government to stop applying the Royal Decree of Nursing, according to the digital press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñiguez. Motion author group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u216	Thank you, President. First, thank you for the support of the other groups. As for the People's Government, the truth is, after listening to the deputy, I don't know if he wants to return to the nursing profession in the 1970s – by the way, the practitioners at that time were much more autonomous than the nursing that the Ministry of Health now wants. They can ask for analytics, yes, for attention to chronics, but they can't recommend a Frenadol, that if you can recommend it on television, that's absurd. Furthermore, Mr President, there will be something in this royal decree that seems to you so wonderful when everyone goes through it! and you have mentioned some of the resources. Look, I'd like you guys to react. It's absurd to oppose. Look, this royal decree part of a ministry in Madrid that is halted and outgoing. In Galicia we are at the door of elections that we hope they will march the People's Party. So it's a matter of time for all of this to change. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I wonder what to plant your face and how to fight against what the screams are asking you not this lady, but the nurse. Why do you want to put them in this skull and put them at risk? Look, I don't know what bothers you with our motion, but if you want to take care of both the professionals and the counselor telling us this morning, it would be to support our motion a recognition of the work that the nurse is doing. And by the way, I also recognize your courage to continue to work despite the circumstances and conditions of legal insecurity in which the ministry places them. To reach an agreement, I'm going to propose something to facilitate the agreement, it's point-by-point voting. We are going to vote, if you like, first point 3 and point 4 together, because I understand that it will not be a problem for the People's Party to support what we ask for, which is to make it easier for the nurse to make clear instructions to be able to work with this real decree, and point 4, to make their commitment real, to modify the policy of civil liability insurance. And in another block, too, the 1, 2, 5 and 6, which I don't think it's not a problem for you either to support the People's Party because we ask only to temporarily paralyze the decree, something which seems logical when I'm sure with the change of Government it's going to be lifted; to fight for maintaining our autonomous health skills, and to facilitate the dialogue of the whole of nursing and dialogue with the other autonomous communities within the Interterritorial Council. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, and vote in favour, because we don't ask for it, ask for it from the nurse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u218	We therefore move on to the vote on motions. We began with the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego at the initiative of Ms. Monserrat Prado Cores. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with Sergas waiting lists, the derivation of patients from Galician public health to private centres and the constitution and convening of the area health councils. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u219	We then vote on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left on the initiative of Ms Eva Solla Fernández. The rapporteur has already stated that he does not accept amendments from the Joint Group or from the People's Parliamentary Group. G.P. Motion vote. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the health care that is being provided in Sergas in cases of abortion and the demand to be made by the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u220	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Ms Maria Carme Acuña do Campo. The rapporteur asked for a separate vote, firstly, on points 3 and 4, and then on the rest of the points. We therefore vote first of all on points 3 and 4 of this motion. Vote of points 3 and 4 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the entry into force of the Royal Decree of Prescription of Nursing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Point 3 and 4 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u221	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of this motion. Vote of points 1, 2, 5 and 6 of the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the impact of the entry into force of the Royal Decree of Prescription of Nursing. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. Paragraphs 1, 2, 5 and 6 of this motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u222	We continue with the agenda and move on to the fourth point, which is that of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to increase the number of refugees in Galicia and the presentation in the Galician Parliament of a reception plan
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u223	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u224	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Monica Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u225	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all of us again. Today we bring here, with this non-law proposition, a topic that is of the utmost topicality, which is the subject of refugees and refugees. We understand that in today's world war almost always corresponds to a very clear economic motivation. Almost always, in recent years, mainly related to the geopolitics of energy. War only causes death, destruction and exodus. Syria's war is leading to a massive escape from that people who have managed to survive, seeking peace and other land. They didn't die under the bombs of Syria or another war conflict, but when they made the terrifying journey in search of security and a better life in Europe. These people don't come for a good taste, they come for a vital need. We don't want buckets of jellyfish like in that painting of Gericó, repeating tragic episodes of history. The Nostrum Sea is like a giant gorge that swallows the people sheltered from the boat to the water, and they only have the grip of the sun, which, as a divinity that it is, watches and cries the tragedy and complains that the sisters don't look at these people. Where are the rulers who claim human rights bannermen? Where are they? Europe has no empathy. Europe has no memory. Europe is inhuman. Europe is responsible for many wars, both for the sale of arms, for support for totalitarian and dictatorial regimes. We live in the globalization of indifference. These days we are living the reality of Europe's agreement with Turkey, which is a real shame and leaves many people who have the right to asylum and cannot. It is a country that does not respect human rights, and in no way can it be regarded as a safe country for people, so, in strict compliance with the principle of non-refoulement, people cannot be expelled to this country. The agreement violates European legislation itself and international treaties, allowing collective expulsions that attack the very nature of international protection and prevent the identification of vulnerability profiles. It also involves turning the Turkish state itself into the European police force, into a large camp of people sheltered at the doors of European countries, as it has traditionally been with Morocco. And all this in exchange for the succulent figures of money and other advances, such as, in this case, reopening the process of dialogue allowing Turkey to enter the European club. It's illegal from the point of view of international law, as it's illegal what Spain does in Melilla with hot returns. It's proven that closing borders not only prevents the passage of people, but is the direct cause of deaths and disappearances in the Mediterranean, feeds the mafia and increases vulnerability. The European Union and the Member States are responsible for agreeing this expulsion of persons as a supposed solution to a tragedy and to the suffering of those who have been forcibly displaced, rather than providing them with international protection to which these states are obliged. They were unable to articulate safe routes for immigrant refugees; they were unable to prevent the countries of the area, members of the European Union, from closing the so-called Balkan route; they did not fulfil the commitment to resettlement and relocation acquired. We do not want the Greek island of Lesbos, as the kingdom of Hades, to continue to be an improvised camper of drowned emigrants and anonymous for those who will not come to cry; and to remember the painting of the Dead Island, where the Charon boatman does not agree to carry the dead because they have no money, and so wander for a hundred years through the Aqueronte river, which is today the Mediterranean. But there are also those who cry, and we have the case of one of the last tragedies, where a widow and her four little children, all of them admitted to Moria's detention center because they are irregular emigrants, as indicated in the EU and Turkey pact, need an extraordinary permit to go to the funeral of their husband and father. A lot of pain and no answer. And now that we have just returned – to those who enjoyed them – from the holy week's holidays, the so-called Holy Week, I will take the words of one of the great bardos of our literature, because here we have had the real processions, the Holy Week processions, with the refugees and refugees, with the boundaries of thorns that Europe has placed. Today it is clear that God, if he existed, would be a child, a child or a woman. Stories of thousands of missing and subjected to treatments that stir up the guts. The UN reported on the vulnerability of women, children and children travelling in their refugee status, facing the risks of sexual violence, gender, rape, to pay for their own documentation or their own travel when they cannot count on their family or the community to protect themselves. Until January 2016, 55% of the refugees were children, children and women. We have a broken memory, we don't remember our emigrants or our exiles. What would be ours if we didn't have a reception from many countries! But we also complain about the treatment received in other countries by our refugees, and now we repeat the same thing. Spain should have flagged the defence of the rights of refugees and immigrants arriving in Europe. The values of solidarity are values that share most of the citizenship that lives in the state and in Europe, which has always been with people who suffer in the world. But why doesn't he act, how long will it take? In the face of the immobilism of the Government, the response of many of the state administrations was not made to wait. But in these last few days, the president-in-office reminds him who's been addressed to accommodate refugees, that this subject corresponds to the Central Executive, as much as they want to help by appealing to work for all and all in collaboration. That's what we want, working for the good of these people who walk around and deny their rights. Many administrations, in which we also include the Galicians, have offered resources and infrastructure for this unsufficient shelter. Yes, they reproach us, but they don't do anything! Europe does mobilize itself, but for something else. To offer thousands of volunteers, officials, to return refugees to Turkey and activate relocations directly from Turkish territory. After being attacked and killed, instead of finding shelter and affection, they're going to stop a brick, and now they're taking us to someone who knows where. Where are human rights? The social response doesn't wait. Right now at many points in the state is coordinating the collection of first-needed articles to deliver to the displaced people. In the Pyreum it is also true that you are warned that you do not let this help come because you understand that this is a symbol of permanence. They don't meet the basic needs. Non-governmental organizations are the response to the tides of the states, which have been working for many decades, and now leave the camps themselves, after the agreement with Turkey, because they don't want to be complicit in carrying out the expulsions. All these human rights violations, contrary to the will of the people of Europe, contradict fundamental and fundamental values, supposedly democratic. We want the suspension of this agreement with countries that do not respect human rights. Legal and secure visas, humanitarian visas, resettlement and diplomatic access or asylum in countries of origin and transit. The unconditional compliance by all Member States of the European Union with their duty of international protection. The immediate end of hot evictions and returns. The commitment of European governments to peaceful resolution of conflicts, as well as control of arms trade to countries that violate human rights, and to put an end to speech, denigrating, racist and xenophobic measures and attitudes against refugees, asylum-seekers and immigrants, ensuring fair and fair treatment. The fulfilment of the relocation and resettlement commitments that the Spanish State has acquired, and the number allocated. For these reasons, the citizenship we believe in the declaration of human rights of the United Nations cannot stand aside from an issue that affects thousands of human beings. Empathy portrays us as human and human, and will always remain the truth through the mouth of the innocent and the innocent, who are the most sincere reactions, because the children and the children do hold their hand, because they understand what need is. The announcement made months ago of the willingness to welcome refugees who announced in many municipalities by social emergency should lead to the design of specific measures for the reception of refugees in collaboration with civil society organizations. Or the development itself in the municipalities of a census of the city's own infrastructures to give welcome to the refugees. And you can also urge administrations to count on resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u226	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u227	As I announced on my own initiative, we know that in Galicia there are a very high number of empty homes, both in towns and in the countryside as well as in cities, and we believe that the quantity announced should be increased, given that each municipality can accommodate a minimum of people, always according to the size of the municipality and the economic and social capacity itself. We also know that last week a non-legislative proposal was adopted here in Parliament asking the Union and the State to apply the law regulating the right to asylum and the subsidiary application to comply with the provisions relating to refugees and refugees. So, on our own initiative, we urge the Union to lead the reception of refugees in Galicia, making an urgent call to municipalities and families to give up empty private homes and municipal facilities for this reception, in order to increase the number of sheltered people welcomed by our country and to present to Parliament, with the utmost urgency, a plan to welcome people sheltered in Galicia. Just waiting for us to come to an agreement in the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Intervention of the groups. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u229	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that we have lived in an unprecedented period since World War II, when it comes to the forced mobilization of millions of people by different circumstances, economics, socials, and especially war situations, so we can't even argue – as we did with emigration, by chance, Africans that we have lived with more intensity for years – that we simply seek to improve living conditions. Here we're talking about millions of people running away to save their lives. We're talking about people living in territories where people, children, girls are beheaded, where women are sold, etc. We don't come into judgment, not even ethically, who does it or why it is, each one of us has our opinion. But people have the legitimate right to flee and seek protection for themselves and their families. A few years ago, in 2013, we were struck by the tragedy of Lampedusa, which today is but a faraway reminder: nearly 400 people drowned in the Mediterranean. Then comes the image of a boy lying on a beach, after he was floating by the sea, because his parents were trying to save his life, and he just died, I say, swept away on a beach. In our consumer society these flashes last as long as they last. We consume them at a given time and they disappear from our lives. And then, recently, there's another image that some people think should move our reflection. The crane of all this is the shameful agreements that have recently taken place in Europe, in which refugees are treated in practice as a fact of renditions to which they are negotiated, with which some countries draw back. In Europe we set borders. Curiously – I have said on more than one occasion – those countries, those governments, who fled a certain dictatorship and terrible conditions of life and oppression, and who sought refuge in the countries of Western Europe, are the ones who are most virulently locked behind wires and behind rules that prevent these people from accessing Europe. And then we have our government. We tabled an amendment because, of course, this is State competence and the State can block any initiative in any of the territories; in fact, it has blocked all those that have been presented by autonomous communities, municipalities and non-governmental organizations. We have a government that defends one thing when it has the absolute majority, and when it's in office and the courts force it to defend another one applies that principle of Cañita Brava: "I tell you the same thing that I tell you the other," and nothing happens. A government that seems to be finally giving us explanations in the courts, but that until two days ago even denied that right and continues to deny it for other matters. We have a government that is able to believe what you don't see. A minister of the Interior who believes in a lord called Marcelo who opens the door of the official car, and who is even able to give him honours to images of stairway that represent a deity, but that we close our eyes to those hundreds of thousands of people—children, elders, people living in the storm—a government that forgets our history. Ladies and gentlemen, there is evidence from UNHCR that Syria has probably moved around 5 million people. And for us to get an idea of what it means, the exit of Spain's civilian population and of the remnants of the Republican Army is estimated to be around 700,000 people. It's a striking picture, less for those who probably didn't have anyone close to them, either ideologically or familiarly. We are one of the most unusual countries in Europe, and year after year the Government draws 130 squares, when there are more than 8,000 asylum applications in Spain, and I don't want to talk about the commitments made by thousands of people in negotiations with Europe that the Government is not fulfilling. That's where our amendment goes, even though we've reached an agreement – it's true – in Commission 1a just a few days ago, but we must insist on developing the regulation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u231	...of our law because, if not, we have a pretty serious problem, and even those people who demand asylum abroad have real difficulties and put civil servants in trouble. And then there's something I suspect we'll be told here, and we'll be proposed with the agreement that there's already a plan on the part of the Galician Union. I don't think it would be necessary to ask the Government of Greece, because I think this is a matter we can all agree on, that the Government of Greece voluntarily, and on its own initiative, would appear in this House and explain to us what it consists of, and above all that it told us when it will sue that administration that has jurisdiction, that it is the Government of the State, that it fulfils its commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u232	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u233	...internationals and that – I insist – remember, even if it's not for their family background, the collective history of many Spaniards. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Gaga de Left Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u235	Good afternoon, everyone. We bring back the greatest concern that exists or should exist today with regard to the situation to which we are forced to live – or to survive, better – refugees and migrants who are absolutely desperate to put their hopes on the horizon of a Europe that was – or at some point was – of the values illustrated and of republicanism, and today, after seeing what solutions we are giving them from the EU, where we are treating refugees and emigrants as mere commodities, denying human rights and dignity, that horizon is a mere utopia. So when fear is the most tortuous threat to vital projects and the safeguarding of human rights, politics must be brave, decisions and actions that run away from viscerality that permeates fear. We avoid with radical solidarity and respect for human rights not only the emergence of racist and xenophobic behaviors on the part of extreme right-wing groups and by certain states members of the European Union – such as Hungary, Slovakia and others – that are making Schengen space explode, we denounce it and say it loud and clear, but also to prevent by mere short electoralist practice those organizations, forces and governments that are called Democrats end up welcoming and carrying out an even more restrictive legislative apparatus than today, and that is what is happening unfortunately. Javier de Lucas speaks clearly of a state of permanent exception in which migrant persons live throughout the European Union, a state of non-rights, forcing them to live on the margins of society, and that cannot be allowed. UNHCR warned that 61 million people were already displaced and exiled in the world. Five years of war is over in Syria and in other countries. There are currently ten conflict countries that are causing a considerable displacement and exile of millions of human beings. So – it has been said here – in the first phase what is done is an internal displacement in the country itself. For example, there are 6.6 million people displaced within Syria, to other areas considered safer, where UNHCR works. For example, in phase two, what is done? Go out to another neighbouring country. And there we have about 4.5 million displaced people from Syria are in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt. But that's not enough because the pressure is totally disproportionate, and the third stage emerges, which is to look at and see Europe as the horizon. More than 1 million people tried to reach Europe, 498,370 people from Syria in 2015; the rest of the remaining nine countries in conflict: 20 per cent from Afghanistan, 8 per cent from Iraq. This is the most dangerous journey, and we're making it much more dangerous. The Mediterranean Sea is today an overwhelming common pit: 3,700 people last year, 400 people in the year; therefore, we have an obligation to act, From Burundi, a country in conflict, we have 236,000 displaced persons; from Central African Republic, 900,000; from Congo, 1.5 million; from South Sudan, 1.7 million people. I mean, since we don't act, they don't really make sense of the speeches or decisions we can make. Because, of course, when we see that only 35 asylum applications have been received from Africa, it is clear that we are doing something wrong from the point of view of the safeguarding of human rights. Therefore, in the line of the non-law proposal that had been defended here by an AGE initiative and which had been approved unanimously, we must continue to update our speech, to update our absolute support and solidarity through determined political actions of constant pressure for the State to act and for us all to be the guarantors of those human rights today crushed. Let's get the sense back and become human. Let's not be wolves to man and woman. Even though the horizon of a social Europe, a just Europe, a solidarity Europe is today a utopia – as Galeano said – we walk towards it at least. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u236	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u237	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. We are faced with what we could call the greatest crisis of legitimacy of the institutions of the European Union, the crisis of cruelty. I often repeat a sentence – let me do it this afternoon – by Walter Benjamin, a collaborator of the Frankfurt School, who right at the beginning of the uprising of Nazism wrote that in his reflections on Europe: "each culture document is a barbarity document." Many times you've come back on that phrase. What did you mean by an author who had just defended the illustrated reason, who understood that Europe was just the germ in the history of progress, to get to live a little better every time? Well, the latent contradiction of what we can say today is the history of cruelty. In a historical moment like the present one, where human beings could live the greatest redistribution of wealth – given the material conditions of research, of knowledge, of resources that exist – we surely live one of the most unequal moments on the planet and one of the greatest moments of cruelty. Walter Benjamin never was so right about culture being really barbaric. In this sense, the delegitimacy they currently have, morally, socially and politically, the institutions of the European Union is total. Citizenship – and we understand by citizenship all people living in Europe – would probably have a very different notion and would do very different things with regard to refugees coming closer to that supposed Europe of progress and reason. On the other hand, the European Union is disillusioned by the cruelty, the closure of the borders and the creation of a situation which we must at least think about – because we are in a political chamber, because we hear on many occasions that a host plan will be made, which in both Commission 1st and, indeed, in plenary were debated and there were unanimous positions on this issue – about the role of those and those who are dedicated to legislating in this European Union, which fall politically, socially and morally to the cactus. It really places us in one of the corners of history. I think... you probably talk to teenagers and say, well, if this isn't the third world war, what are we watching, what level of impatience? Mrs. Soneira said: we see images and have them in the retina as long as we've been changing the computer screen. Terrible images that we often don't know how to differentiate between fiction and absolute irreality. Almost as young people and girls live, especially pre-teens, games and video games. We live a moment of real cruelty. We will support this initiative, the text to which we come, if there is agreement. In fact, we're asking for the Government of Galicia for agility, and the Council of Welfare not only that it has hung up on its website the reception plan, but proactivity. But I think we have to go a lot further. I don't know whether to review the concepts of imperialism, colonialism, to review where the wars are being waged: who colonized those territories?, what political systems have been done?, what difficulty do we have in understanding what is happening right now? I, since I started with Benjamin, I want to end Kant and with perpetual peace. I don't think it's a moral problem we're dealing with either. It's not a welfare council problem. It's a political problem, a different legal order in Europe and in the world to analyze what really are the causes that lead to wars, to look elsewhere, and that many of the people who enrich themselves on this planet do because of those wars that are taking place. The European institutions have never been as helpless, politically, socially and morally as they are now. Every corpse in the Mediterranean, every child or child drowned, shows us not that we should be moved by empathy – even if empathy is one of the qualities that make us human – but that we should be moved by politics, and put all the instruments we have developed if we want to be called Europe, if we want to be called heirs of some kind of rationality, so that we don't politically repeat the images that Mrs Soneira mentioned. Indeed, we live Europe not only of cruelty, but of the greatest hypocrisy, and all of us, whether we burn it or not, are hypocrites. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Trenor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, when this initiative was registered, an offer of public services and facilities by the President of the Galician Union had already been put forward by the Italian Government; an offer that the Government subsequently placed on the reception plan, a proper reception plan, anticipating the Central Government's requests and setting up cooperation with it at all times. All material and human resources, resources from the Autonomic Administration, but also resources from other administrations, locations, NGOs and families, who had communicated their willingness to collaborate on the necessary device for the reception of refugees. This plan, ladies and gentlemen, you know, since on this plan you answered the Social Policy Adviser here in plenary, and the Director General also appeared at the request of the Socialist Party, the Left Galician Alternative and the Galician Nationalist Block in commission. Thanks to these appearances you know that we no longer speak of 300 squares, because after the first inventory made of resources that have brought together administrations, all administrations, they would allow to increase the number of available squares up to 900, but this process is not yet closed. They know that, in order to advance the coordination of all media, a cross-sectional working group in which all the departments of the Galician Union were involved, but also the Fegamp and the main NGOs working on the ground. That was also reflected in the budgets this year, increasing the orders of social initiative entity and increasing the orders of the municipalities. More than 700 volunteers have also been trained to be able to work when refugees arrive at reception and reception, but also to achieve work integration. We, the Greeks, are ready to work when the refugees arrive. That's why we supported Mr Ron's initiative in this House a month ago urging the Central Government to start the relocation process in Europe in turn. Your Honor, at point 1, you focus on the availability of the empty housing, but allow me, gentlemen, to remind you that it's not idle resources, it's rights. It's not about giving what we don't use, it's about giving what they have right to. But the Union's plan includes not only housing solutions, not even the reception of these people, but also their integration; it's about schooling, it's about health care, it's ultimately about ensuring adequate integration and allowing the refugees access to all the services of all the administrations addressed to the general population. Ladies and gentlemen, in the State the number of refugees assigned to Spain by the European Commission was 14,931, and a lot more, of those first 5,000 who were assigned. Spain has for a year had a system of care for refugees that is strengthening with more resources to meet the current situation. I would like to remind you that last year the Council of Ministers approved extraordinary aid of EUR 13 million for associations involved in the management of aid to applicants for international protection. A work team has also been set up, from which the inter-ministerial group has emerged, with precisely the task of preparing the management of the transfer, hosting and integration of the applicants. And, as far as resources are concerned, I would like to remind you that there has been a significant increase in the number of games aimed at welcoming and integrating refugees into the budget bill, through an amendment that was negotiated with the rest of the groups to reinforce with 200 million euros the games destined for it. I want to mention the Schengen area. Even though there are countries that are strengthening their border controls, it is not good to question the Schengen area. That's how Galicia defended it in the plenary session of the Committee of the Regions, also defending a sustainable, constructive and coordinated policy against the threats that concern this space. The permanent reintroduction of border controls cannot be the answer to the areas of European Union citizens of greater security and protection of their standard of living. Ladies and gentlemen, in line with all this, we are presenting to you a compromise text proposal which I understand reflects the important coordination work within the host plan of all available resources and also defends constructive and coordinated policies in the face of threats from border controls that concern the Schengen area. And also, of course, we reject any agreement that includes collective expulsions, as well as necessity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u241	...the adoption of a respectful agreement with international legality and human rights, specifically that any expulsion that takes place will be possible only after the conclusion of an individualised asylum file with all guarantees. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u242	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez has the floor for the initiative's own group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u243	I want to thank the groups for their cooperation, because, in principle, if we are going to accept the transaction, which says: "First point. To continue to work in coordination, within the reception plan, of all available resources, both of the administrations and of the NGOs and of the Greek families, with the aim of promoting the effective integration of persons seeking international protection. Second point. To defend constructive and coordinated policies within the Community in the face of threats from border controls focusing on the Schengen area. The permanent introduction of border controls cannot be the answer to the areas of European Union citizens of greater security and protection of their standard of living. Third point. To reject any agreement that includes collective expulsions of Syrian refugees, as well as the need for a respectful agreement with international legality and human rights, and specifically that any expulsion to Turkey will only be possible after the conclusion of an individualized asylum file with all guarantees." We understand and accept the transaction because we want the unanimous support of this House. We remember and ask that the famous reception plan we want in writing because we also understand that we, all groups, can bring the plan closer together, build together. We also understand that the granting of refugees would be with all rights and duties, as is the case with Greek citizenship. I hope that these good intentions will come true and that they will not remain in mere promises, because I think everyone has a right and because we suffer equally here in Europe as they suffer in the rest of the world. I expect, above all, the immediate response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. As soon as you can, the text of that transaction will bring us closer. We moved on to the next non-law proposal. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government for the improvement of the system of contribution and socio-laboral protection of people working at sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u245	This initiative will be presented with two amendments, one from the Joint Group and one from the Nationalist Block Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u246	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u247	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are moving to this House an initiative that we believe will be beneficial to all seafarers. It emerges, not the exclusive impulse of this parliamentary group, of the People's Parliamentary Group, but as an idea outlined by the professionals themselves of the maritime-fishing confrries at the regular meetings that I had the honour to maintain in recent times. In our view and in the opinion of the People's Parliamentary Group, this initiative will result in greater social and work protection present and future for professionals at sea. And it's born after a specific context. The Government of the People's Party in Spain has promoted legislation that has just completed a significant change and a positive change in regulations regulating the social regime of men and women working in the marine-fishing sector. We speak, ladies and gentlemen, of the Law 45/2015 of 21 October; a legal text that introduces important changes, among others, the extension of the collectives covered by the protective mechanisms provided for in the special social security regime for the workers of the sea. We will all agree that the particular characteristics, hardness, seasonality or risks inherent in the activity of the sea always require exclusive protection regulation. By overcoming this first milestone, we understand from the People's Parliamentary Group that there are areas for further progress in improving professionals, improving the economic and social wellbeing of these workers. One of these areas that is likely to improve is the social security contribution scheme. Between the vast majority of workers in Spain when they meet the requirements for access to a pension they get some accounts that do not differ substantially from those they perceive while they are active, it does not happen the same with all the professionals invited to the special regime of sea workers, for example, those whose work is paid by the traditional system of the part, and the rest of those who are confined, in this case to groups of quote 2 and 3, among those who are self-employed from the sea. They would not be paying for their real wages in this case, but for legal estimates. This situation is detrimental to these workers and their future pensions because they are pensions in these lower cases. That's why, as I've told you before, there are multiple reasons why this discrepancy is motivated. Without attempting to get into technical aspects, they are based on the different assumptions that the current legislation establishes to determine the worker's income. Today the law regulates a mechanism too artificial that, as a final result, offers a lot of counts under reality or, in the case of the autonomous of the sea, tied by an equal fixed quota for all of them and a quota, in this case, that is unremovable. Well, that's the sense of our initiative. Our initiative is born to correct the problem we just described. Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that the special scheme of self-employed people has allowed since its creation the possibility of choosing a basis of quote according to their economic possibilities and expectations or also profit expectations, always within limits established according to the worker's age. This same advantage is also provided for agricultural workers on their own. In the People's Party we believe that women and men in the sea also deserve this same treatment of what we have just talked about, that professionals in the sea deserve the opportunity to benefit from the advantages that would imply a similar model. The People's Parliamentary Group therefore calls on the administrations to promote regulatory reform in terms and with the limitations which could be agreed upon in the process of dialogue with professionals in the maritime-fishing sector which would enable a similar system to be put in place for the free choice of the different basis of contributions, allowing voluntary increases – and I repeat voluntarily – above the established minimum base. From a practical point of view, a reform of these characteristics would be very beneficial for all professionals in the world of the sea in our autonomous community, which, as a result, would have improved their future pensions. And so since the People's Parliamentary Group we urge the Council of Galicia to address the Central Government to continue its management and to push for policy changes that are needed to improve the system of contribution and social and labour protection for people working at sea. We call on the various administrations to study, among other things, the possibilities of establishing a system that will enable them to voluntarily increase their contribution bases, and whenever they do not assume loss or injury to these workers. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we call for the implementation of a voluntary system of improvement in the contributions that professionals of the sea make to Social Security. Finally, we look for ways to improve the social protection of our sailors and our workers in the Galician Sea. That is why, hoping that the parliamentary groups will support this initiative – we really appreciate that some parliamentary groups have tabled amendments, of which we will also speak in the second round – and thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u248	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u249	Well, we tabled a amendment to this non-law proposal that we will explain, because we have to start by saying that the special social security regime of workers and workers from the sea needed a law that would unify the regulations and that was already the subject of debate in the Toledo Pact 2011, where we talked about the convenience of ending with a process that would integrate special agricultural schemes, household workers and sea workers in the same regime as the rest of the workers and workers. This was not taken forward, and as an alternative to this process of integration of the social security system of workers and workers from the sea in the general regime or the self-employed regime according to the modality of service, this update has been carried out, which has adapted to the regulations and has also adapted to numerous judgments, and is, above all, stopped in the unique and exclusive relationship of Social Security. So it doesn't solve much of the problems of seafarers. For example, they continue to make injuries compared to applying the reduction coefficients for retirement age. The application of the coefficients determines the age at which a worker can access retirement, but varies according to these three quote groups. So we have to have a labourer in the merchantship, for example, who had worked 20 years, has a reduction coefficient of 30%, and applying that coefficient could retire to 59 years. But if we're talking, for example, about a seamstress or a seamstress, the reducing coefficient is 0.10% and, therefore, I couldn't retire with the same 20 years worked until I was 63. I mean, there's an aggravation, and not precisely because you're looking at penosity. I understand that there is much more complicated work in the sea, much harder, than what is Marina Mercante. I think fishing, in any of its modalities, is a job that deserves a higher coefficient. The law allows, in addition, a ten-year reduction, but it is impossible to achieve that reduction given the coefficients and the time that is currently active. So it seems to us that this law is insufficient in its scope and that it continues to prejudice most of the collective for what was created, the collective of workers and workers of the sea. The collective included in the Redmar, which, as the spokesperson of the People's Party said, is classified into three groups of contributions, but that the most accused particularities, as he himself said, are in that form of special remuneration, which is called a "part" system, as well as in the setting of coefficients that reduce the contribution. Considering that Law 47/2015 has unified the regulations and adapted the law to existing jurisprudence, we believe that there is still much to be done in relation to the contributions and retirement conditions of all the workers and workers of the sea in the broadest sense, and that they must actively participate in any modification of their working conditions, so we present a replacement amendment. We don't disagree with anyone who can increase their contribution, but we think that's not the main problem, at least it's not what we're most concerned about. What we're most concerned about is the other staff who have no income to increase their contribution, who doesn't even have income to be able to live a life with their basic needs covered. There are a lot of seafaring people who have an income of 8,000, 7,000, 9,000 at the end of the year. Those are the people we really care about. And because on the initiative of the People's Party it speaks of an agreement with the sector, but it does not speak of an agreement specifically with those people who are subject to this law, who are the workers and workers of the sector. So in our amendment, what we ask is that a tripartite negotiating table be opened with the representation of the sector, of the most representative trade unions in the autonomous coastal communities – it will not be that the unions in Madrid are coming to negotiate the conditions of the sea – the most representative trade unions in the coastal communities and the Administration to agree on the necessary regulatory changes to improve the system of contributions and retirement and socio-laborative protection of the people working at sea. We hope that this amendment will be accepted, because we believe that it does not eliminate that initiative from the People's Party, but it does open up the possibility that the negotiators of this table...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u251	...take the decisions that create the most convenient for workers and workers in the sector, and if that's one of them, it would be taken into account, and if other initiatives are more important to them, I think that there is a need to respect them, as could not be otherwise. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The Galician Nationalist Block Group speaks for Mr. Rhodes Chapel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u253	Good afternoon, everyone. The spokesperson for the People's Party comes here to bring us an initiative as if they had nothing to do with this Mass, as if they were not responsible at the time of Mr Aznar's application of this system. But in addition, they have recently passed the new Law 47/2005 of 21 October, where they have finally updated a rule of more than forty years old, where they have been updated and recasting all these regulations on the social protection of seafarers. So they had an excellent opportunity to deal with two of the major problems in the sector. One was told by the spokesman of the Joint Group, which are the revisions of the reducing coefficients that benefit certain activities, and she pointed out some, such as the Merchant Navy, the vessels of the research ISM itself or even tuna fishing vessels, while clearly discriminating what is being the artisanal fishing or fishing of the coast, not to mention of the marsicadores or of the perceivers, which only have a coefficient of 0.1, while the above have a coefficient of 0.4. The reality is that the work of these activities has evolved a great deal, and before, indeed, it could be a great drama which has come to light for six or seven months, but today all this has changed radically, and, as I say, you have had an excellent opportunity to bring this to reality and, above all, to dignify what is the work of most of our sailors, our sailors or our complementary activities of our sea. The second great opportunity had it to liquidate the current model of fixed bases and to use it to modify the current basis of quote and not come here to propose to study the possibilities of establishing a new system that will allow us to voluntarily increase – this is the serious – the current basis of quote. As you know, group 2 and group 3 contribution bases are determined annually by ministerial order, considering, supposedly, the incomes of the previous year, and are a single basis. And I'm supposed to say, because they've repeatedly been claimed and asked for income data, without us knowing today whether this proposal is real. But even the spokesperson himself just said it's a too artificial mechanism. So another great opportunity to change this situation, because the reality is that a Basque trawler, for example group 2, with less than 150 TRB, has a contribution base, for example, of €2,952, while a Greek trawler in the same characteristics does not reach €2,316. They see a difference of nothing more and nothing less than 636 euros. Or how can we explain that a search boat that goes to the Basque Country to the coast of the mouth and the yard turns out that it has a basis of quote in our country of 1,686 euros, while the mere fact that it is Basque its base of quote increases to 1,822 euros by working in the same boiler and under the same conditions. So here we don't meet the maximum that the same job, the same salary, the same quote. They had a chance, of course, and they didn't. Your proposal is not to look at this discrimination and help those who are less likely to contribute by demanding equalizing the minimum base, but it's on its way to liberalizing the peak so that they can get favored those professional categories voluntarily and unregulated that have the best income, that is, patterns, mechanics or shipowners, not binding the entire crew. So it doesn't go to the bottom of the matter, nor do they worry about the fact that this discrimination exists by nationality, which even occurs here in the province itself. That's why we tabled an amendment that goes in the sense of equal work, same contribution, equal retirement. So let's match the conditions of the seamen for the entire crew, not in a way...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u254	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u255	...willingly. And the second is to apply the concept of solidarity with those sectors that have less contributing capacity; we talk about seafarers, boats of less than 10 GRT, of course. So we make two amendments that try to put some common sense and, above all, take advantage of the opportunities you've missed to try to ensure that our sector has a minimum of dignity and has at least a right of retirement, as dignified as other autonomous communities. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u256	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo Recouso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u257	Good afternoon, everyone. Once again, we are faced with these kinds of proposals from the People's Party's fishing spokesman, who never say exactly how they're going to do what they say they want to do, but they also don't explain why they didn't make the People's Party, nor any government of the state during their term of office, which is now demanded, when it's clear that they're going out the back door. The first thing to explain is that if this is so necessary and it's the way out of our sailors' pension problems, why it wasn't done when they just passed a law on October 21, last year, 45/2015, of protection for men and women in the marine-fishing sector. It seems reasonable that if that was a problem of what you were aware of, that there had been a solution at that time and not now. Moreover, it is easy for you to consider whether it is intended to modify the basis of contributions so that they can adapt to each other, simply by using what is said in Article 9 of the law itself, which is, by decree, able to put in place by a decree of the State, now even in functions. You make decrees of all kinds, you can make a decree to put on the table several bases of quote. But the reality is that you don't say what you want to do and how you're going to do it, because we put a question on the table, here he was explained by the BNG spokesman. Will territorial discrimination be ended with respect to the contribution bases our sailors have with respect to the Basques, the cantabrians and so on? Will they be able to use lower pricing bases, for example, for autonomous sailors who are not able to arrive at the end of the month and who are not able to maintain their boat? Will they be able to put on the table legislative measures that eliminate the pitfalls that you put on the pensions of the country as a whole, also the sailors? Because look, you should explain to me how you might be worried about mariners' pensions when you have this basic model of quote, when you've reduced the mariners' pensions by 4.5 percent since they rule. And besides, with the increase in retirement age promoted by the People's Party, it's harder for a sailor to retire with a decent pension, and the increase to 35 years of the calculation period for the contribution, to calculate his pension, also means a reduction in his final pension. So here we're talking about looking like they're worried about something, but you're legislating against mariners' pensions. First of all, in this law, they were unable to establish criteria that were fair to the whole sector. But then, when they reformed the pension pact, what they're doing is also ending the sailors' pensions, because that increase in the number of years, that increase in retirement age, means that our sailors today retire with much less pension. And you say they have a very precarious situation compared to the autonomy of the country. Look, do you know what the average state pension is? 950 euros, do you know what average state autonomous pensions are? 750 euros. Do you think those are decent pensions, Mr. Balsairo? If those are decent pensions, come here and explain to me how for you a decent pension is 750 euros. What you have to do is reformulate pensions, but reformulate what was agreed on in the Toledo Pact, in order to provide pensions with the purchasing capacity sufficient to be worthy, eliminate the increase in retirement age and, above all, eliminate those two factors that make pensions lower. First of all, what's the first thing that makes pensions go down? Increase the number of calculation years. And second, that sustainability factor that means that no pensioner knows what pension he's going to get when he retires, why? Because there's a pension sustainability factor that I imposed on the People's Party, which actually means that no worker will charge the same amount as when he worked. So you lie in the statement of intentions of your proposal. Because your proposal says that in the rest of the sectors most pensioners end up charging the same amount they charged when they worked, and it's false, and it's so false that in changing pensions you determined in your questions that one of the elements that will control the rate of pension revaluation is precisely that, that no worker will charge the same pension as in his active life. So don't cheat on citizenship, don't cheat on sailors. I'm going to ask you two specific questions, to get that proposal forward, what are the policy changes they propose? Let me know what the changes are, which is what you want to do with this quote base. And secondly, if this is so, why haven't they done it before? We are, once again, in the face of a wash or the need for Mr. Balsairo to have five minutes of interruption in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u258	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of Socialists, Mr Val Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u259	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. The Socialist Parliamentary Group is going to vote in favour of this initiative today, even though we know that we could certainly find a lot of arguments to vote justly in the opposite direction. And I'm saying this because it's important to take a look at what you've done in almost eight years of governing Galicia and in the four years they've ruled in the Spanish state. And given what they did, we could consider that we are faced with an initiative that little more than a toast to the sun. I have to remind you that since you are Government in Galicia, that is, for almost eight years now, more than 4,500 contributors have disappeared to the special regime of the sea. And I also have to remind you that just five months ago you passed a law in Congress of Members who have referred to as a regulatory law on the protection of workers in the maritime-fishing sector and which is clearly against what you propose today in your proposal for an agreement. That is to say, in order to comply with what you are asking today through this initiative, it would be necessary to change this rule, because far from what you quote in the text of the non-law proposal as a need for regulatory development, clearly confront what is set out in Article 9 of that normative text, and which says textually the following: "The basis for assessment will be determined with respect to the workers included in groups 2 and 3 in a single way." That is to say, the law itself passed by you is the one that establishes that the basis for the contribution of the workers of the vessels of 10 to 50 TRB and of less than 10 TRB will be determined annually according to the average income obtained by art and also by the fishing area, and will also be unique. This is what the law says and not what the Socialist Parliamentary Group says. Therefore, it is not possible to develop a regulation justly contrary to what marks the law itself. But we also understand that there is a problem, because in many cases, actually, as you said, it is not often based on actual income, and so this can suppose or generate distortions when calculating pensions. But we also need to know that we're talking about a system of subsidised, subsidized contribution to common continence and unemployment, a bonus ranging from two-thirds to one-thirds depending on the occupational group and category of the worker. And, therefore, we understand that it is necessary to maintain this kind of bonus that is done just to compensate for the unworked days or that they are lost because they don't work exactly for climate reasons. A conditioner, that of the climatic reasons, that we all certainly understand that it will continue to exist and, therefore, it would be necessary to keep going. But from our group we have serious doubts that you can continue to maintain that kind of bonus once you open up the possibility of being able to contribute through real income. And I say this because it's good that the sector, affected, knows the specific features of a quote system, which I don't know if Mr. Balsairo when he visited the ports told these questions. Because the thing is not as easy as you propose here today, if it were, we understand that they would already do it in the past legislation, where you had the absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies and where you just passed that Act of October 21, which protects the people working in the maritime-fishing sector, and they did absolutely nothing to do it. I mean, you've had the opportunity and you know perfectly well, as we do, that it's not so easy or easy to do this that you propose here, because you can give truly paradoxical situations like, for example, that in a same boat where two employees, two crew members of the same professional category, one is quotaing depending on real income and another depending on these unique bases. I think it would be necessary to harmonise criteria and, indeed, it seems appropriate to us to deepen and work on an improvement in the contribution bases of the sea workers, but for that it is necessary to open a dialogue table with the affected, with the unions, with the representatives and the workers and to try to reach an agreement. We're going to vote favourably, because exactly what you're asking is to study setting up that dialogue table and studying these alternatives, but it's also necessary to get to know the specificities of this contribution system and the need to keep these bonuses going, which I've already said before they go from two thirds to one third depending on the categories, because if we open the door to real income, it's going to be difficult to keep them going. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u260	Thank you, Mr. Val. The author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u261	Thank you very much, Madam President. We thank the Socialist Party for its favourable vote. To clarify to the spokesman of the Socialist Party – without getting into controversy – Mr. Val, that you have just given here a series of data and, indeed, this law changed a government of the People's Party. Forty years had passed this law, it is a pity that when you were in front of the Government of Spain they didn't realize what you just said in Parliament's rostrum and changed it, because they had time. Having said this, I want to position the group on amendments. There is an amendment by the Joint Group, Mrs Martínez, and our proposal literally makes reference to promoting a process of dialogue with the sector, of course, and in this dialogue process we agree that there will be representatives of the trade unions, of the most representative trade unions, will be representatives of the agents, will be representatives of the confrries, although I also have to tell you here that you are not going to think that trade unions also have so much representation in the sector, a little more than 5%. And if we talk about lowness, practically nothing, since in most cases they're autonomous. And we have no drawback in accepting his amendment as an addition, never as a replacement. And there's another amendment to the Galego Nationalist Block, and precisely we ask that the quote can be adapted to the situation of the sea worker, and that's why we believe that the amendment that you present is a mistake, the amendment that presents the Galego Nationalist Block. To take as a quote reference the Basque Country, we cannot accept it as a proposal, we cannot accept it as a proposal, because we defend a voluntary system of improvement of contributions, and in that voluntary system of improvement of contributions there will be anyone who can contribute above what they do in the Basque Country and there will be those who cannot reach what they quote in the Basque Country. That's why we understand that the amendment you tabled will be very good for the Basque Country, but for Galicia it is not worth it, nor for the Welsh fishing sector it is worth it. That's why it's a mistake to take the Basque Country as reference. And if we talk about what you say, what we always talk about here is the proposals of the People's Parliamentary Group that are always inconcrete, because if they don't want to support them, they're inconcrete ones that aren't presented, and if we talk about AGE, because you look at this practically inconcrete House in the plenary of this House, they're almost all that you haven't presented, because you practically didn't present any. Those are the inconcretes. But I'll explain to you if you understand. We ask for a system of voluntary improvement of the social security contributions from the sea, we demand – if you listen to me you can find out, if not impossible – that this new model emerges from a negotiation between the fishing sector and the central government officials, and we indicate that in no case can a reduction in rights. [[Interruptions.]] No, I'm not going to explain it to you because it would be a waste of time. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-29-DSPG146.u262	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
