ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u1	Good morning, ladies; good morning to all. We will begin the plenary meeting on 27 December. And before the session began, I wanted — excuse me, Mrs. Pontón, just one second — to excuse Mr. Raúl Fernández Fernández's assistance, which we all know for the painful trance that has just passed this fellow of ours — he and his entire family — and from here we want to bring them our solidarity and, of course, our support. And now we're in the development of the agenda. Proposal for a change of agenda to include a new subject in the agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u2	I had asked for the floor, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u3	On the basis of Article 73.1, which makes it possible to include matters on the agenda and, therefore, to change them, we would ask for the inclusion of the presence of the President of Galician Union, to explain why he keeps the persons charged in the open process in relation to hepatitis C treatments and the responsibilities arising from the open judicial process.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. As you well said, article 73 needs to be two groups or a fifth of the members of this House. Such in itself the Block couldn't. Yes, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u5	By the En Marea Parliamentary Group, consistent with the written record yesterday afternoon, we would be prepared to make the same request at this moment. So there would be two groups in the House that were supporting that same request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u6	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Yes, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u7	To add to this request.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Leicega. So, preceptively, as the request was made, I submit to the consideration of the whole of the House the amendment of the agenda which was put forward and we therefore proceed to the vote. We vote. Voting of the amendment to the agenda of the plenary session, at the request of the GGs. PP. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, of En Marea and of the Galician Socialists, to include in it a new matter on the basis of Article 73.1 of the Regulation, regarding the appearance of the President of the Galician Union, to explain why he keeps the persons charged in the open process in relation to hepatitis C treatments and the responsibilities arising from the open judicial process. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39; no abstention. The result of the vote is negative. This request for a change in the agenda is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u9	We've already entered the agenda points with point 1. Appointment of two candidates or candidates for a judicial or judicial term of office of the Constitutional Court to submit to the Senate
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u10	For the procedure, it should be borne in mind that the Bureau of Parliament, hearing the Speaker's Meeting, at its meeting on 20 December 2016, agreed: Start the procedure for the appointment of two candidates or candidates to a magistrate or a magistrate of the Constitutional Court to submit to the Senate. That the election is carried out in accordance with Article 91 of the Regulation, that is to say, secret by paper, by making the call in alphabetical order, in accordance with the rules governing this designation. For the issue of their vote, their lordships have a paperboard with a single closed list, which lists the names of the candidate and the candidate proposed and a box next to express the vote as follows: please mark with a beep in the white box; blank, it is enough that they do not cover the quotation; and they would consider empty the papers where any sign or inscription other than the marked one is entered. At the end of the vote and the ballot was held, the candidate and the candidate who obtained the simple majority would be elected. If no such majority is reached, a second and last vote will be held in the session we are holding. So we start with the vote, the paperwork is already being distributed. [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the call vote, which shall be done by the Bureau's secretary. Whenever you want, you have to put the vice president down and the vice-secretary down to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there any Member or Member left for exercising his right to vote? No, we're starting the polling.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u12	The result of the vote is: don Maria Teresa Conde Pumpido Tourón, 27 votes; don José Manuel Sieira Míguez, 39 votes; blank votes, 5. Therefore, nominee and nominee are nominated for the Magistrate and Magistrate of the Constitutional Court, to present to the Senate, Ms. María Teresa Conde Pumpido Tourón and Mr. José Manuel Sieira Míguez. No more, we've moved on to the agenda. Let's start with the motions. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to equal pay
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u13	This motion was tabled with an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u14	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u15	Thank you, President. Good morning. The first thing to say, as is the first intervention, is to reiterate the support of this House to our colleague Raúl, in this trance so hard that it is happening. At Marea we have brought to this Parliament today, with the explicit will of visibility, a set of initiatives all related to equality, trying to make this full monographic case, because for us the perspective of gender is transversal, and that is because, if transversal is Machism, transversal must be our political action from this point of view of gender. We understand, therefore, that the Machist violence, which hit our country hard last week, is the most vicious manifestation of our patriarchal society. But we understand that, from our point of view, the gender wage gap, from which we have brought an interpellation to the House's past, is also a form of violence. It's a form of violence from the point of view that wage inequality maintains the devaluation of women's jobs and the image of the woman dependent on man. So it causes many precarious women to be trapped by economic issues in macho relationships that nullify them, degrade them, come to murder them. We have therefore moved to this plenary a proposal for us to define as a Galician society a strategy towards 2020 to end the gender gap in Galicia, knowing that even the approval of this one is not enough, since this issue is of complex study and it is complex to address it, and also because the improvement of working women's conditions depends primarily on their struggle. We wanted to take advantage of and make reference here — and this applies to all the initiatives that we bring in Marea to this House today — to the social struggle of feminism, because if we are speaking here today, and we are women representatives of the Greek people, it is not because of the political forces, but because of the social struggle since the birth of feminism. It is therefore in that context where we frame all our initiatives in this plenary. Our proposal on the wage gap is based on three points. First of all, open a negotiating table with trade union centres and employers' representation to adopt agreements that allow the recovery of the Greek wages to reach the state average and fight against the precarious work of youth. Why? We have already said so in the debate on the question. The German labour market is one of the most precarious at the state level. These lower wages also involve more precarious retirements, lower working rates, lower unemployment benefits, lower disability pensions, and impact on all current and future life-style issues, more on women. We also specifically ask for a strategy to combat job insecurity in youth, because a country without future opportunities for its youth is a country without a future as a whole. There is no valid birth plan, no plan to be effective, if there are no dignified living conditions to guarantee the quality of life for children and children. Let us also remember that most families called single parents are primarily supported by women, and suffer — as we have already said in this House — high levels of poverty and precariousness. We also want to mention here the figure of the poor worker, the poor worker, which is, on the whole, something that happens throughout the state, but in Galicia — as we have already pointed out — 50% of the working class has precarious working conditions. In view of this reality, we understand that it is essential for the Union to push trade union negotiations, to recover the Greek wages to the state average and to deal specifically with the working conditions of young people, whose wages — let us remember — have remained frozen from pre-crisis levels. The second of our proposals is to convene, through the Galego Labour Relations Council, the most representative employers and trade unions in their territorial and sectoral fields to promote collective negotiations in the Italian field, unifying the provincial sectoral conventions and negotiating sector-based agreements in those sectors where they are in the state domain. Why? First of all, because collective bargaining is a tool that employers and working class have to deal with labour and wage conditions that bind them. It's one of the ways -- it's not the only one -- to improve the living conditions of the working class. What happened in Galicia? Because of its political and social characteristics, the processes of crisis and economic recovery did not occur at the same time as in the rest of the state. Thus, when wage restraint is committed in the state because of the crisis, the Greek companies applied it when they were not yet suffering from the effects of the crisis. When recovery starts later, throughout the rest of the state, Galicia still suffers from this crisis, so the start of the recovery of wages does not apply here. I mean, we're asking for this collective negotiation linked to our reality because we also have to connect it to different times. On the other hand, many state-wide agreements are minimum agreements, which little or nothing exceeds the rights established by the Workers' Statute and the Minimum Inter-Professional Salary in the lowest professional categories. In addition, the physical distance from where it is negotiated makes it difficult for workers and workers in Greece to participate actively in decision-making. This issue becomes intolerable in many sectors, in feminized sectors like the canned one, in which Galicia is the autonomous community with more companies and people employed, but the agreement is not negotiated here. There is also a new reality. New sectors related to R & D that lack the collective reference agreement, so their working conditions are reduced to the precarious rights. All of this is set in a regressive framework that since 2010 has taken power over the working class. That's why this is our second point in our proposal. And thirdly, specifically on the wage gap, framed in this collective negotiation of the Italian field, we call specifically the Galego Labour Relations Council to more representative employers and trade unions, to promote — in the collective negotiations of the Greek field to which we refer — which is considered an objective to achieve effective wage equality between men and women in 2020. Why? We've already explained it in another plenary session. The precarious reality of the Greek wages is much worse for the Greek women. We are not going to reiterate all the conditions: that they work in the most precarious sectors; that the wage gap is 23.4% less than average what women charge, the second lowest female wage in the state. Anyway, the question is that everyone, this whole room right now, can't say we're not feminists. No one today dares to say no feminist, I understand, but then no one — well, it could be, unfortunately, be — is concerned that all politics have this feature of gender. So, the wage — we repeat — is not simply something that can lead to worse or better quality of life: the wage is dignified. A good salary corresponds to a job that is better considered socially. That's why the message we're moving about, if we don't act specifically against the wage gap, is that women earn less, that society tells the new generations that women have less demanding jobs, that men are better paid, that they do important jobs, that picture that settles down and that makes a post of machoism that soon causes the macho violence than we all regret. This depreciation — not only economic — of women's work is also applicable in cases of the same professional category. A pawn, for example, charges more than a cleaner because he cleans crystals, for example. Whatever reason it is for the man's work to be more important than the woman's work in the world of work. Let us repeat: inequality drags all life with lower wages. We also have the poorest older Greek women in the state; that's something we have to act on. Here we specifically request the convening of the Galego Labour Relations Council in the debate of the interpellation, and Mr. Conde — he is not here now — pointed out that yes, who consider it important this Galego Labour Relations Council, which must be strengthened; but in budgets this council reduces its staffing. We also want to remember here that there was an attempt to merge the Economic and Social Council with the Galego Labour Relations Council. What we defend is that they are two very important organisms to shorten the grave problems of Greek society, and therefore, apart from defending their role, we defend more budgets for them. And for employment policies, the Galego Labour Relations Council is fundamental. We therefore specifically call for a strategy to be defined by 2020 to shorten the wage gap, the Autonomous Advisory Committee, which depends on this Galego Labour Relations Council, and to deal with this issue more deeply, beyond the promotion of equal plans in businesses, because what we are looking for are effective measures to break the wage gap. Because – I said – when we talk about macho violence, we always think about its most brutal manifestation, but we don't also think about the economic violence that occurs, when we have the lowest pensions, the greatest incidence of precariousness in women, the precarious conditions of domestic work and the role of care, most often taken by women. Another debate is whether we have to make a strategy of socialization of care, but if there are these care, if we give them economic value in the classical sense, the wage gap would be much higher. So let us not add any more violence, which would be institutional violence, in case institutions do not fight with all their mechanisms against this wage gap, because both the illegal situations of wage inequality and the wage gap persist the average wage difference between men and women only deepens in that source of the conflict of macho violence. We therefore propose, knowing that it is insufficient, to define from the Galego Labour Relations Council, in a European framework for collective bargaining, a specific strategy towards 2020 to end the gender wage gap in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u17	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, of course, it is a sad day for the Socialist Group, and, as you will understand its lordships, our heads and hearts are not in this Chamber today, they are with our colleague Raúl in Verín. But parliamentary activity must continue, Mrs Vázquez Verao, and we are also deeply concerned about the situation in this autonomous community. We must remember that we are the third lowest wage community in all Spain. A particularly complicated situation in youth. In Galicia we now have the lowest rate of emancipation from all of Spain, which is directly related, in addition to emigration, of course also to those low wages, which allow wages, if they have to be emancipated, to be 53% of the household expenditure they would have to contribute. An EPA, some data, which we knew a few weeks ago, tells us that today in the third quarter of 2016 half of those under 35 years ago. A dramatic situation. Of course, we agree in the spirit of the initiative, and it is necessary to change urgently and in a necessary way. As far as point 2 of the initiative is concerned, we agree that, of course, collective bargaining has been dynamic, and something that has been key to that was that labour reform put in place by the Government of the People's Party. We always repeat it here, even in the previous plenary session, the Socialist Group brought to this House an initiative that supported all opposition groups except the People's Party, the party that supports the Government. We, however, do not share a part of that point 2, which is why we tabled an amendment to abolish the negotiation of sectoral agreements, since we think it might even be negative that this negotiation should be transferred directly here to Galicia. We believe that pressure and negotiating capacity are much higher at the state level than we could have in this autonomous community. With regard to point 3 of this initiative, where wage equality is concerned, in the previous plenary session one of the points of that motion, ladies and gentlemen, which the Socialist Group presented, was precisely the start of a wage equality law. Again, all opposition groups support that point, except for the People's Group, which voted against. There's a lot left to do. Law 3/2007, the Equality Law, gave us women higher quotas, higher rates of equality, which follow far from the parameters of real and effective equality in our country's labour market in all labour relations. The data tell us that the biggest wages in Galicia are in the cities of Coruña and Vigo, and that's also where there's the biggest pay gap, more than 20% with women. A country where women earn an average of 7.1 euros per hour and men, 8.7. And even the wage difference exists in part-time contracts: men, EUR 9.1 per hour, and women do not reach EUR 6 per hour. In fact, these social differences in the labour market are also the foundations of Machism, and they are and are the basis of all those behaviors that lead women to suffer violence, as we have seen in recent weeks. There is still, ladies and gentlemen — and let me say so — a certain negationism in this regard. If we go out to the street and ask if women and men get the same pay, we'll see that there's more than 60% of the population they think they do. We therefore have the responsibility from the institutions and also from the Galician Parliament to send a clear message today to the entire population and to all the people who are outside this House to say loud and clear that this is not the case and that we are going to do our best to correct it. Mrs Vázquez Verao said before all of us in this House are feminists. I like your illusion, I like that hope that you reflect, but we'll see if, really, by pressing that button, Mrs. Vázquez Verao, we are or not, all and all, feminists. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u19	Good morning to all and to all. On behalf of the BNG, we also want to add our condolences to Comrade Raúl, and also wish them a great deal of encouragement to all the comrades in the Socialist Group, who we know will be with him today. Starting with this last question that the Socialist Party introduced the debate, I would like to point out that the parliamentary group that I represent will support this motion always and when we do not accept the proposal of the first point of suppression presented by the Socialist Party, because we understand — and we have defended it in this House on repeated occasions — that collective bargaining is absolutely essential for workers and workers to improve the working conditions of their work environment, and that labour reforms, plurally applied by different governments in the state, have dynamite not only these negotiations, but have worsened the state conventions, privatized companies and left the working class most unprotected. We understand, from nationalism, that removing decision-making centres makes negotiation difficult and makes the majority unions who have agreed on some of these labour reforms more important and it is therefore more difficult to introduce proposals that, if they have strength from the German framework and that have contributed to significant progress, class advances and advances also in the national defence key. In addition, the data suggests that in Galicia the best agreements are, precisely, those of a provincial or national nature — in their defect, Welsh — where there is greater capacity for the working class, against those of companies or states, which are now negotiated by union domes away from the most immediate decision-making centres. It's more, in this scenario that these two labour reforms leave us, we understand that this negotiation within the Greek framework would be the most powerful key that workers and workers would have to effectively condition progress for our rights, and we have other examples in different areas of work. By entering into the question of the salary divide, which for us is priority and is very relevant, I had come to drive here and I had come thinking precisely that, as a woman, if this Parliament were a private company, it would lead to working for free between 50 and 60 days, according to calculations that have thrown social and trade union agents; if I had started my contract with that company on January 1, 2015. I'd have been working those 50 days for free; Paula, too; Noela, too; Ana, who spoke before, too; and that's a reality, it's an objective reality, with data like those who gave the comrades and others we could bring here. I decided today – without that precedent value – to be a little Europeanist, and since the People's Party does not often like us pulling out the data from the EPA, as did Noela, or those from the INE, as did the other day Paula, or those from the IGE itself, because I resorted to two data from two European agencies, which are nothing suspicious of being the arm armed with any union, as sometimes accused of political organizations. So, for example, Eurostat, a statistical agency in Brussels, determines that the Spanish State — it is a pity that, logically, the data for Galicia are not broken down — is the sixth country with the highest wage gap among all those who make up the European Union, having come down in this position, and that for the hour worked, for example, in 2014, there was an average of 20 per cent in relation to the remuneration paid by men. Or the World Economic Forum — which we think is neither suspicious of leftist nor trade unionist — published in October of this same year a new edition of its report on gender equality throughout the world, and which, for example, analyses fields such as work or political representation, and indicated that equality would not be achieved in general terms within nearly two hundred years. So if that doesn't motivate us to take legislative measures that reduce those 200 years, I don't know what could motivate us. Also in this study — to put things in their place — the Spanish State did not go well. In addition, we have repeatedly analysed the crisis, and the crisis has only aggravated the precarious working situation of women, which we are also the most affected — as has been said here — by short-term and long-term contracts. Or it's enough, for example, to look at 2015, to see how many unemployed women there were in our country and how many workers paid less than the minimum interprofessional wage. The latter were more than 162,000, and more than 120,000 in unemployment. This is economic violence and this is also a violence by which women see our rights watered down. Time is running out, then, I'm finishing my speech by saying that we will support this proposal by En Marea, because, above the nuances that we could approach, there are two questions on the table that are fundamental to us: one is the safeguard of collective bargaining as a tool for the working class and the wager for negotiation within the Greek framework, which we understand absolutely fundamental since nationalism, and another, those efforts aimed at equalizing wages between men and women, putting in a mechanism and setting a date horizon that seems important to us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u21	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President, and very good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We also want to add to the condolences expressed by the president to our colleague Raúl. The pain that's going on is unimaginable. As the President of Parliament has well announced, we are faced with a motion, as a result of a very concrete inquiry on what the Government is going to do to achieve effective wage equality between men and women; a sufficiently transcendent and vital issue for women in our country and for it to be diluted both in its interventions and in the resolution of its own negotiation. One of the most unjust discrimination we have suffered from women well deserves a motion consistent with our own interpellation. In order to substantiate the inquiry, you have done, Mrs Vázquez, an intervention which is more typical of an appearance on the lines of counseling, both in employment policy and in industrial policy. And now it also brings us a three-point motion where only the last one mentions effective wage equality between men and women, which shows how little relevant they consider this matter. Yes, they will soon abandon themselves as the only ones who defend equality between men and women, but it's not true, and it's not true because we can say that in autonomous communities governed by socialists, nationalists and even by the new policy of We can have a wage gap five points above Galicia, and this is happening in Andalusia, Catalonia and Aragon, for example. And even in 2008, at the time of greatest splendour in Galicia, wage deviation was two points higher than today's. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all in favour of ending this difference that so much harms women and society; all of us, too. We are faced with a structural project — as you well referred to, Mrs Vázquez — which is a complex reality that not even the measures it brings to Marea are enough to tackle this problem — I repeat your remarks. And it's not enough, above all, if you're against the entire industrial project that starts in our country. Because it's exactly the industry where wage earners earn more; the industry sector is where wages grow the most. We agree that the Government's greatest concern is to continue to promote the quality of employment in an equal way. What I don't know if we'll agree is that it's done in a clear context of bet by the company and industry, because it's within this context where the Government is working to promote female employment and gender equality. By maintaining positive discrimination in active employment policies, but next year it will have more intensity for women. Strengthening the equality plans in companies, with a budget higher than 28% in the previous year, so that Greek micro-enterprises and pemmes apply measures that promote equality and labour co-responsibility. Working with the Labour Inspectorate, with concrete actions aimed at prosecuting discrimination against women and taking into account all the complaints that come. And urging the Galego Labour Relations Council — if, as the Government has already done a year ago — to reach an inter-professional framework in the field of autonomy on equal opportunities for men and women. An agreement in which both the employer and the participating unions are working; an agreement indispensable to this Government. But it also continues to work on promoting female entrepreneurship through the Imega Programme, with an budget of 1,300,000 euros for 2017. A measure that supports the success of women's entrepreneurial initiative. Galicia therefore, ladies and gentlemen, will continue to move towards effective equality between men and women through proper planning. We already have a strategy, and by next year this strategy will have a new tool: a new Women's Employment Plan so that women can occupy our rightful place in the labour market; so that we can achieve participation in all sectors and in all professional categories; and to eliminate by all means this wage gap that affects us so much. I have already finished, Mr President, reiterating this Government's commitment to shorten this discrimination we are suffering. But I am very sorry that they use this discrimination as an excuse to raise other generic issues in which the Government is already working, and in which I am not going to go in because I have no time nor were they subject to questioning and because we do feel that it is important enough to do everything to achieve effective wage equality between men and women. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this point, most importantly, what was the subject of the interpellation and the last one you put in the motion. I hope that they will accept the vote by points, otherwise they would show how little relevant they consider one of the most unjust discrimination we suffer from women. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Motion author group, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u23	Thanks to all the groups. Mrs. Romero, don't worry that it doesn't get diluted, we start it in this whole context because the wage reality of women we believe is within the context of the German labour market. That said, if we accept the vote by points. We appreciate the support of the two opposition groups. What we reject is the abolition amendment, but we accept the addition amendment on the Pay Equality Act. On the question of industry, they say we can't put the debate on industry here because it's diluted, precisely, with the industrial strategy. It's true that industry is one of the sectors where wages have grown the most, yes, but it's also one of the most masculine sectors. That they increase wages in the industry and yet they fall in the service sector, it increases that pay gap. We need to act specifically on industry and on women's employment. Please support this third point because we call for a concrete 2020 strategy to end the wage gap. Why did we do it? Because the Council's 2020 employment agenda does not mention this issue of the wage gap either as a threat or as a weakness in the German labour market. I think that after this debate it has been well evidenced that it is one of the issues that we most need to be concerned about, so we formulate this specific strategy, and also because we defend the Galician Labour Relations Council. We must defend it, yes, the PP also defends it, but this has to be translated into budgets, because its programme, programme 324A, of improving the organization and administration of labour relations and the social economy, has fallen into budgets with respect to 2016, and also the specific issue of the Galego Labour Relations Council. We especially liked two references. One was that of the Socialist Group, about the negationism that still exists on this issue. We are pleased that it is approved by this Parliament — if so, by voting on points — the 2020 Strategy to end the wage gap, because it is tremendous the negationism that is taking place over many of the debates that feminism has brought about and which are now attempting to question and dissolve. The reference made by the BNG Group to the fact that labour reforms greatly hampered state-wide agreements. I wanted to remind you here — and that is why we are also defending a Greek framework of labour relations — that Galicia is one of the countries that has had the most social combat, and we are proud of this struggle; we hope that it will also happen in the wake of the wage gap. It seems to us that a backing from this Parliament to make a specific strategy towards 2020 can go on its way to recovering women's wages. First, to recover the German salaries as a whole in respect of the state, and specifically to fight against that gender wage gap.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u24	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in the field of the prevention of alcohol consumption by minors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u25	This motion was tabled amendments by the People's Parliamentary Group, the En Marea Parliamentary Group and the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u26	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u27	Good morning. Thank you, President. We brought up a debate that we had — interestingly, we considered — two weeks ago. To give a brief overview of our position here, we believe that there are several causes of the problem that are being addressed little, little, little, and we believe that they clearly explain our situation. There's a very low awareness about the problem of consumption, or, what's the same, there's a very high social tolerance about alcohol consumption. Not so about other substances, thanks also, in a way, to many actions that have taken place at other times — some more distant, some closer — but with alcohol there is a certain social tolerance, and I would be able to say that even in Galicia especially. It is true that this does not imply that we should suppress, we should coerce consumption in a full way, but in the case of minors, but not in society as a whole. But we must make more responsible use and consumption, both in terms of individual consumption of people and in terms of the example they set. Therefore, in this step of social tolerance we believe it is necessary to affect more. There's a cause of early initiation. We often face problems when they give the first symptoms, or even when we're seeing the consequences, and we have to go before these situations. Prevention must be a priority before the problem. In addition, we point out that there were false debates. There is a false debate about what consumption is and what is known as bottle. There is a problem, yes, of public order associated with the bottle, and the law itself, even in the preamble, on its first page, already speaks of the problems of coexistence. It is true that there is a problem — that can be generated — of citizen cohabitation between consumers and non-consumers and neighbors by the fact of the bottle. There is and there is a need to deal with it. But we're talking about consumption, we're not talking specifically and only about bottle, though we're also talking about bottle. But the problem of consumption we didn't fully associate it, 100 percent, with the bottle problem, because otherwise we would make the mistake that, by removing the bottle from the view and removing the bottle from the problem, we would be solving the problem of consumption, and that wouldn't be the case. The problem of consumption is more subtle, but it is more necessary to deal with it as well. There is a false debate, in addition, between minors and adults. Children are sometimes very guilty of what they do, but sometimes not so much. Many of us are examples for the minors, who see that we do not penalize consumption, if we see that the great parties in Galicia are celebrated with free bars, are celebrated with a lot of jealousy, with a lot of noise, with very cheap consumption, and that the consumption of alcohol among older people — and the children see – is what they will understand is that it is acceptable, and that is social tolerance. So maybe we shouldn't criminalize a generation, but we should assume it's a common problem. Depending on that, we believe that there are certain deficits, and there goes our proposal for reformulation, which is our initiative today. First of all, although there is a law, there is an inefficient regulatory intervention collected in that law. The law itself indicates — literally — that sanctions are seen as the last remedy — specifically the law and is right. The point is that — like many things that happen with this law — the preamble has a good basis — it may be questionable at some point — but then the law does not develop according to the preamble, because essentially the law is punitive, it is little educational. On some professional issue, I know perfectly well that the biggest ones have changed their behavior much more influenced by obligation than by conviction. But minors change behavior much more by conviction than by obligation. The conducts modified by the obligation, are maintained as long as there is the coercion or authority that imposes it. When authority disappears, the conduct disappears and returns to the original. So if we base all our action on coercion -- meaning the word -- on punishment, we will be overcoming the problem above and solving it while there is that obligation or punishment. But when it disappears — which in the end must always disappear — we will have achieved nothing. So we think it's very necessary for the law to be less punitive and more educational. In any case, the punitive part — necessarily existing because, at the end of the recommendation, it must be fulfilled, and if it does not comply, there must be some sanctions — is transferred to the councils basically. There's a regulation that tells the municipalities what they have to do. In this field, we propose point 2 of our initiative, which is what we are talking about negotiating with Fegamp the transfer of competences, the clarification of competences. It is necessary to clarify what competences have the autonomy and what competences has the local scope, so that it cannot be expounded from the autonomous field to the local scope that meets a law that the autonomic sphere has done, because then it is unfair. And in addition to clarifying these competences — which by means of a matter of proximity can be, if necessarily developed by the local field — you have to put the resources on the table, because developing a regulation without resources is to speak on paper, but if you talk on paper, then it doesn't really develop. So at that point 2 we make that contribution, which is to negotiate with the clear representation of municipalities and provinces to develop their powers, but they also do it with the necessary allocation. In addition to regulatory intervention, it is essential to develop educational actions, which, as we say, we believe are the basis of this law, or should be. They are — I insist — in the well-developed, well-founded preamble; with some appreciation that could be, but reasonably well-founded. What happens is they're not developed. The law after it's vague, it's almost empty. Not to mention the causes, but at the very least the consequences. So we're in the original problem: we're not facing social tolerance and we're not dealing with early beginnings and the reason for consumption. You can't put doors in the field when we're already in the field. It's possible to put doors in a house so he won't leave. Still, it's always hard. Therefore, we must start educational actions by dealing correctly with the causes, in a correct and concrete way, because they are poorly defined. And they're also very specified in age -- I insist -- as if the problem was just the children who start. The Minister of Health himself today, in an interview which publishes a national medium — which I did not have the opportunity to read widely, but rather in the corresponding part — already speaks of the parents. I would not only talk about the parents — that too — but about the social context in which we have to deal with the problem, because it just comes from there, it comes from the images we give. And there are images -- some of them mentioned here in the last debate -- that do not move properly. So we work on point 1 of our initiative, which is to develop a comprehensive pedagogical action plan. Integral in the sense that it develops towards minors, also towards older people, and in all the context around them: education, family and social. The socialization areas of the children are those three — their family, their friends and school — at the three points we must face it; and we must deal with it in a convincing and correct, concrete way, with experts who know it — so we include it — with the world of associationism that knows it and is in permanent contact. That's why our foundation of point 1. In addition, we consider that there is a third deficit: there is no evaluation, there is no self-assessment, we have a law that develops and comes with data, they usually reach the year and half view or one year view, and the evaluation is not done properly. What is not measured cannot be improved. So what we are proposing, that we consider in point 3, is to measure or evaluate this, that the Government self-assess the effectiveness of its foundations, its projects and its plans, and that it also brings it to Parliament so that we can all contribute to that assessment. Those are the foundations of our initiative. What we're thinking is that we are efficient, that we are aware that this is a problem that affects us all and that, while there are still some good intentions, there has been no necessary realization and development needed to carry it out. In this sense, we are proposing to the groups the possibility that we should approve this initiative, which we believe would be very interesting if it were adopted among all of us, because we believe — and I said it the other day and I say with conviction — that all of us here and many outsiders are convinced that this problem is possible to deal with it and that there is no point a priori that can distinguish us, apart from some necessary nuances, that we will certainly be able to speak on the grounds of the amendments. But I invite you to approve this initiative, because it would be a good step to be able to deal with some other problems, which the advisor himself has announced here, which we believe may also be of interest in the issue of addictions and addictive behaviors. So we invite you to adopt this initiative that the socialists bring here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u28	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u29	Good morning, everyone. The first one, the bottle hasn't been invented by our generation. I think we often think that beyond inventing or nameing what was done there, I invite them to review the popular tradition of our country a little bit, and if you can talk to someone who would ever come, for example, at a blast. Beyond that little joke, if you allow me, being an absolutely serious subject, we agree with the initiative presented here today, but we also share that idea that we have to go to the bottom of the question, instead of directing political action to persecution, to watch and to punishment, and even in some cases — as we have heard in the last few weeks too, through the proposal made by some groups — the criminalization of the youth of alcohol consumption in the street, which should also lead us to think about the motivations that lead, above all, to the younger generations, to consume alcohol in the street. I think we hear little too our youth, that we often propose alternatives thinking that we have absolute knowledge about their behaviors or decisions that we make to the younger people, and that they take us, for example, to overlook the fact of the price that alcohol has in bars, which is what motivates many times that alcohol is consumed—and I share the idea that in a way that is exaggerated on many occasions—in the streets. In this sense, we share the idea that the representative of the Socialist Party was launching, that what exists in our country, to a large extent, is the normalization — as it were in some way — of alcohol consumption, even in very high percentages. To the point many times that we consider that the only way to have fun is to have a good time, the only way to have fun is by consuming alcohol, especially if we talk about leisure or leisure at night; in addition, in excessive consumption of that alcohol. But that is true — as the spokesman of the Socialist Party pointed out — that it is not something that is exclusively attributable to youth, but that we could talk about virtually all age groups. In this sense, we share the fundamental idea that the initiative has, which is to work from education, from a social perspective, raising awareness of the whole of society about the consequences of excessive alcohol consumption, as has already been done with regard to other addictive substances. And for that we need to take preventive measures, educational measures and, above all, promote youth leisure alternatives, because many times we don't even give an alternative, an escape route to develop leisure or leisure, especially at night. And yet, there's a nuance that we're doing to this initiative, and that's the amendment we're presenting. We understand that it is necessary to replace that second point, which is intended to transfer all competences exclusively to the local area. And we understand that planning and any political action that is taken to reduce alcohol consumption between youth at national level must be designed, and should be assumed by the competence that you already have in health care and education at Galician Union. And there must be no transfer of powers to the local administration, which somehow leaves the actions to be taken to the will of each municipality. And besides, the councils already have, to a good extent, competences in matters of public order; well, I don't like that concept, but in the realm of nightlife. What we defend is that measures must be taken in an integral way, as proposed in the initiative itself, but that competition should not be transferred to the councils, which must be planned through the Fegamp for a joint strategy, and that, in any case, local corporations should be the ones that implement these measures, which I also insist — and it has done so too the spokesman of the Socialist Party — in which they must be equipped with budgets, resources and materials and, above all, with money, because it will not be of any use that we put ourselves to plan here if there is then no need to carry them out. We will support the initiative, but we ask you to include that change that we request in point 2, to be Fegamp, to be a national strategy, and not to the municipal will of each government, depending also many times on its political colour, to adopt the actions to be developed. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u31	Thank you, President. For what we've been discussing today, what we've discussed in the full past and what we've already talked about during and above all this past year, the content of cases that have jumped to the media, it's obvious that things are not doing well in this matter, especially with that data that we already had on the table, which has already moved to the full past, that until October 31, there were more than four hundred cases of ethical poisoning in minors in our country. We're no longer talking about alcohol problems in our old age, but we're talking about minors. And with this data on the table, we can come up with an idea of how extensible the problem to the global population of Galicia, as it has just been moved here. That kids and girls 12, 13 or 14 years old consume alcohol, despite the ban, and even those limits, and despite that law, approved by the Government of Greece, preventing the consumption of alcohol in minors, gives the extent to which things are not doing well at all. And it is true that part of that prevention, part of that education also belongs to the family and within the very scope of the minors themselves, but it is also true that there are responsibilities - also contained in this law - on the part of the Administration itself that are not being assumed or that are not being implemented in some respects. I think it's a sufficiently serious and important subject, for the consequences it has, not just now, but in the middle and in the long run, and it shouldn't be made demagogy on the subject. We agree with the content of the proposal, we will support it. But it is true that we tabled an amendment relating to that point 2, because we also believe that these powers in the area of prevention cannot be exceeded, in the field of health promotion, which has to do with the network of municipalities in Galicia. We therefore propose that where it says: "Register with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces the transfer of autonomous competences", it replaces itself with: "Agregate with the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces a collaboration at the local level, with the transfer of necessary resources, as well as the minimum clauses that all municipal ordinances must count on the consumption of alcohol by minors." We understand that it is not only positive but necessary that certain particularities of the towns and cities of Greece be taken into account by the Council of Galicia. It's imperative that the board sit down with the Town Councils. But we also understand that the Union cannot escape what its obligations and responsibilities are, because up to now it is not being done properly. We wanted to know what educational measures have been implemented, what are the curricular contents related to alcohol prevention. We believe that the law is not developing in these aspects, and it's a very serious aspect. And we understand that you can't "pass" — among other things — the ball of responsibility to municipal governments. We have now seen a budgetary debate, in which drug subsidies and alcoholism keep some cuts that aren't even being recovered now that the Government claims there's an increase in the budget. The Drug Addiction Prevention Programme, a specific in the 413 programme, has suffered 76% of cuts. The Fegamp drug-care agreement has continued to decline by more than 56% since 2011. And there's a cut that's very important and we've already moved it to Commission 3rd, where the Health Counsellor appeared. Actually, and not because of doing demagogy, it seems to us to be relevant that since 2014 is a smaller cut, it's true 3%, but it's the Drug Prevention Program dedicated to local corporations. It is precisely the program that is dedicated to the prevention of bottle and alcohol consumption in minors, to this collaboration with the municipalities at the local level. It is therefore necessary to reflect on whether EUR 700,000 is necessary, not by itself, but by what is done with that money, and the absence of real measures in the field of prevention and promotion of health in that sense and the absence of educational measures that have been introduced since before children and children have started this alcohol consumption, which in Galicia is more or less dated in the 14 years. Because prevention has to be done first, and you have to start working with them when they're young. We understand, therefore, that deriving responsibilities in the municipalities is not acceptable, and the rest seems good to us. We believe, moreover, that it must be done — since it is a serious problem — without demagogy and taking into account the professionals who can contribute in this matter, but also precisely the groups of young and young people — also as the BNG spokesman said — that on many occasions we are not really listening to what are the views on this issue of the most affected and affected. We therefore tabled the amendment, but we are also going to support the non-law proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. I want to begin with, Mr. Torrado, by saying that inevitably in this matter we have to agree on a lot of things. Of course, the problem of alcohol consumption in the population is a serious social problem, a health problem that is deeply concerned by health professionals, especially primary care doctors. I could tell him many sad realities, for I saw a 28-year-old girl die, who was a mother, for a cirrhosis by alcohol, and that's very hard. So it's clear that alcohol abuse is not an exclusive problem for minors, young people or girls, but it has consequences for their future development far higher than for adults — and you know it well — the level of health, education, behavior, with visible and negative consequences for their physical, mental and social health. And as such a specific problem, to me or another day in the previous plenary, I was concerned that you had devoted more to alcohol in adults than to alcohol in minors. This consumption of minors must be of its own importance, when, in Madrid this month, a motion from the PNV Group was debated, in which a bill was requested to be submitted with the objective – and I say it textually – "to alleviate the worrying increase in alcohol consumption in minors." From this bill it was unanimously approved its processing, except for the Catalan group, more concerned about its competences than really about the problem of alcohol. The consumption of minors, then, has an entity sufficient and proper to deserve a law and to deserve differentiated measures. The difference in alcohol consumption with other substances is clear, and social tolerance is clear: alcohol at normal or moderate doses is a product that is not toxic, a matter that does not have tobacco or other drugs. And, of course, we have a problem: the bottle is perceived among youth as harmless for their health. And that's fake. I, of course, as a doctor and as a father always felt that measures must be implemented to eradicate that practice. And in the same view are different professional societies and scientific associations. A week ago, the Spanish Society for Family and Community Medicine was pronounced, whose spokesman said textually: "In view of the ineffectiveness of the measures adopted so far, it is imperative to implement the measures proposed by the European ministers, who were supported by the European Commission, and the National Plan on Drugs, which would involve banning alcohol consumption in the streets, restricting the advertising of any alcoholic beverage, exercising control over access points and times of sale and raising taxes." To raise taxes means to increase the price, and to increase the price means to lower consumption. That's not, of course, criminalizing youth, or much less, in any case, it's fighting ways of behavior that are very detrimental to their health, coexistence and future attitudes towards our boys and girls' alcohol. It's serious and mediatically important that a girl dies, like Madrid's, for acute ethic poisoning, but also the scientifically proven consequences of alcohol abuse in isolated days are very serious. That's scientifically proven. A minor who consumes has a lot more chance of being an adult who consumes, as we all know that a child whose parents smoke is easier than smoking. Because of these factors, Mr. Torrado, alcohol consumption in minors I think it is a specific problem, even different from the problem of adults — which is very serious too — and it is a very important problem. The areas of action, all, are important, the family, the education, the health care, the community, the advertising, the public administration, but I want to focus on the family. If parents agree, parents provoke and parents help, we have nothing to do. So what the minister said yesterday was that there should be fines for the parents — that I didn't listen to that part — of the minors who come to a bottle or arrive at a hospital under those conditions. Of course, prevention, measures and areas are exactly the same in the Greek law as in the extreme draft law — the Government of the Socialist Party — or that in the Basque law, of addictions. The ban on bottle in some cities and economic sanctions — sometimes also replaced by awareness-raising courses or social work — were in some cases sufficient to eradicate the bottle. He came here in Santiago. In Santiago, between 2011 and 2015, the ordinances that were approved by the previous Government were complied with and the bottle disappeared. We present an amendment that you know, with an alternative text, which amends and complements your text at some point. We accept in your integrity point 3 and we reject point 2 of the negotiation with Fegamp, because you know there's a proposal to draft a new law and we think those changes should go into the law. From now on, the municipal competences in the extreme law and the Basque law are completely similar to the Galicians. At the first point, we withdraw the deadline you put in the first semester for the same reason: if you are going to pass a law, we believe that the law of Galicia should be accompanied by the future law also that you want to pass at the level of Congress, for the whole state. And anyway, we think there would be no disadvantage in the commitment to create a working group with the institutions and experts highlighted in the text, from which we eliminate "social and youth" because we think it's not concrete and that it also reduces the possibility of including other groups. And with respect to the last point, we delete the last sentence to avoid the reductionism of it as well. Of course, the amendment and updating of this law was in the People's Party program, and the People's Group will urge the Government to amend that law. We believe that this change should include regulation of consumption on the public road, the effective restriction of access of minors to alcoholic beverages and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u35	...the denormalization of consumer tolerance, as the advisor explained in response to his interpellation. We hope you will accept the text of our amendment to move all together in the measures that lead us to correct this important health problem in our population. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u36	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, honestly, today, I did not expect it to be a debate on the competences of other autonomys—he failed to mention Andalusia, which is a habit—and, of course, he did not expect me to be blamed for not giving importance to alcohol consumption in minors. If this is the second time we're debating here, it's because the initiative brought it to me, because I say so a little bit... of course I give it importance and of course it's a problem with a specific importance, of course. But you have to face it in an integral way, that's what I say. What we're defending is that it's a specific problem in minors that is more relevant than in the case of the larger ones, but the case of consumption of minors is very influenced by the consumption of the larger ones. So it's important to talk about it. Again, we go to the causes, not to the consequences. In Santiago the bottle did not disappear — which, by the way, I insist, is a consequence —; in Santiago the bottle did not disappear, you can move from place, and you can continue to do housing, because in the homes of university students also enter minors. He didn't disappear. So the problem is there. Furthermore, if it had disappeared — and the data say that children are still consuming — we would have solved a problem of public order — sorry for the expression, I don't like it either, but the problem of consumption didn't disappear, so what we have is a problem of consumption. Of course it's important; other drugs, by the way, if they have long, longer consumption. Mr. Núñez, you're a doctor, you know perfectly well, and I know you're aware of that. And I also liked the quote you mentioned on the European agreements on this. I took the first part: "In view of the ineffectiveness of the measures adopted so far..." For we agree, the measures adopted so far were ineffective. We always find points of agreement. In any case, and as a result of being brief, what is proposed by the amendments of the People's Party — because I believe that the Amendment of En Marea and that of the BNG are perfectly understandable — are three things: first, withdrawal of the deadline commitments. A permanent commitment is not a commitment. Yes, we're going to reform the law, well, because it reinforces it, but at least we're going to make a commitment. The reality, moreover, does not allow delays, and what we propose is a six-month action plan, which gives time, and it is possible to do so. The withdrawal of deadline commitments is therefore difficult to assume. Second: Withdrawal of resource commitments. Oh, we got to the point. Of course, if we want to negotiate, wake up and debate with Fegamp about the powers that the municipalities have, we have to give them resources. By the way, more than they have, because no obligation can be passed on to them and no resources can be given to them. Third — that they put him at the end and didn't say so — applaud the council and say, "...second is doing the Health Council." This is not a campaign initiative. I am not — as far as I know — a member of the People's Party, I do not bring here initiatives to applaud what councils do. I respect what they can bring forward, do... you already have the necessary media speaker, you already have the necessary media power, don't ask us to do an initiative that ends up saying, "... like you're doing counseling," because, of course, as far as I know, I'm a Socialist Party deputy and we're debating this because we've brought it up. They don't ask us to approve an initiative that says, "...as is the practice of counseling." We didn't come here to applaud, we came to build. If we agree on the essence of the law, we approve it, because what they're proposing with the amendments is: without commitments of deadlines and without commitments of resources; that is, what the Government is doing is fine. If I had approved that, what I would have to ask myself later is, then why did I bring this initiative here?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u40	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u41	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u42	Mr. Losada has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the Socialist Group brings here a motion bearing on the question we made fifteen days ago to the Government. Someone who reads Mr. Economics, Employment and Industry's intervention, realizes that strategy is an extremely ambitious strategy, let's say that, in some ways, it is not ambitious, in relation to a very serious issue, with a theme that is in the political agenda at the Greek level, at the municipal level and at the level of the Government of Spain, and at which, of course, we understand it is necessary to give it a relevant political impetus. And that's what reflects in greater or lesser measure or with more or less success the motion we present. I would recommend — I'm sure the advisor has read it and I'm sure that the responsible speaker too — to all of the Members who have looked at the salary study published by the Galego Institute of Statistics on December 22, the day of the lottery, because I think it's a perfect X-ray of what we're talking about here or at least half what we're talking about here, which is poverty. I keep bringing pages of newspapers. It's three o'clock today, I'm not an editor of any of the three journals I quote, and I read one of them: "Galice is one of the less-weighted Spanish regions in social protection, specifically almost 20% less than the average state." Then: "More than 50% of Spanish pensioners live with less than the minimum wage." If we take into account, in addition, that the German pensioners have the second lowest pension in Spain and we also consider that we have the second oldest community and, therefore, with a greater number of pensioners, I believe that the rule of three or four is quite easy, in relation to poverty. And then there is another that is particularly relevant to me, because this -- and I recognize that I have a certain preference for the categorical assertions of the president of the board in parliamentary headquarters -- has to do with the loss of working power in the new population: "In 2007 they had a job 498,800 under 35 years of age" -- the truth is that it is a matter of going to the IGE; I really appreciate the synthesis of the relevant journalist, but we could all take the job of seeing him -- "Today, only 257,000; that is, half." Well, then, either it doesn't increase employment or, if it increases employment, emigrants, or in Greek socio-working policy, there's a fourth dimension that this Member will certainly escape. And, as I don't believe in the fourth dimensions, which are quite Cartesian, it gives me the feeling that when you say here you emigrated more people in 2007 -- more new people -- than in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016, you're pure and you're just missing the truth. And here these kinds of quantitative and qualitative components are those that form a socio-economic reality of this autonomous community that socialists, the Socialist Group, have come to denounce as dramatic, as difficult. In fact, energy poverty is nothing but a façade more than a global poverty. Of course, I do not argue at all or attempt to underestimate the effort that the Government of Greece is doing, what I say is that in the specific case of energy poverty it has acted late, in an uncoordinated way, and, in the opinion of the Socialist Group, it has acted a political agent, which is the Council of Economy, Industry and Employment, which should not be what it would have to act, because we understand that energy poverty is part of poverty, part of the physical and material needs of a volume, unfortunately, very high of citizens, and we can understand this strategy according to the medals relevant to each counselor, but of course not according to the collective interests of the citizen group. And all of this, in addition, in that context of absolute macroeconomic struggle against the deficit; a struggle, in our opinion, chronically concentrated in an irresponsible manner in a context of economic crisis, even not only of crisis, but of recession, with truly unbearable unemployment rates, for not entering the salary data, that that would be the point in some way. I mean, not only are there a lot of people who don't work, but even those who work have major income-level difficulties. And this, of course, what you just assume is, without any doubt, that inequality, you end up assuming the existence of a social reality that the Greek citizens perceive but that the Greek politicians have not just perceived. When Mr. Counsellor says here that 4,000 tips were awarded on the electric ticket, it's very good. It's good that 4,000 aids are granted, but I want to remember that there are 37,000 homes without any income; I insist, without any income. Not with income under a certain average of the minimum wage, the average income, no, we're not talking about the levels of poverty that usually, in statistical terms, both the Spanish State and the European Union accept, but we're talking about homes without any income. Ladies and gentlemen, 37,000 homes are approximately the town of Ourense; that is, more than 100,000 people. So, talking about 4,000 and it's been three years talking about 4,000, because I think it's the recognition of a failure. I, fifteen days ago, gave another fact that is absolutely shocking in relation to that scarce effort of the Greek Government, which is the population that lives in infra-living, which is practically 10,000 insurvivors. I mean, we're talking about not even the effort of an Autonomous Community to meet the public deficit, rather than to do so, I want to remember that in 2015, compared to a 0.7 that had a deficit, we stayed at 0.53, and we just approved a spending ceiling with a scenario of 0.5, when the Spanish Government itself authorizes a 0.6. This means that the aid for energy poverty does not cover half of the infra-vivals that exist in this autonomous community. I insist: I think it is appropriate for us to reflect on what the medals of good macroeconomic management mean and what the social, economic and labor reality of the country in which we live, and, of course, for the Government of Greece, for the country that governs. I would like to thank, by the way, the Social Policy Adviser, for they are the ones I believe, beyond entering the fights-civilist wars-intergovernmental Greek, which is part of this package of measures against energy poverty. And on this issue, indeed, the People's Party, for a long time at Galicia level, acted late, acted with fear, voted against many socialist initiatives and other opposition groups in the previous legislation, and it took time to implement this measure of electric ticket. We're not going into electronics. By the way, still the other day, again, in a press release from the German Government following a board of assembly, where electric ticket medals were placed, they spoke as a very positive element of telematic processing. I really don't know which country the people of the People's Party live in, which country the Government lives in. Do you really think that a widowed, semi-alphabet woman living alone in an isolated village in the municipality of San Juan de Río -- and I know what I'm talking about -- is she at least likely to process by telematics anything? No, because in that village -- in which I have a cottage -- there's no cell phone cover, there's no cell phone coverage; it's that simple. Neither good nor bad nor half a pensioner; there is no pensioner. So please don't talk about telematic processing. It's very good the political weight of Old Age, it moves a brutal budget, but the reality of this country is another one, it's more than Industry 4.0. I think we should be integral in the neuronal circuit. It's not very difficult, it's a matter of getting the car and finally making a few miles out of AP-9. I think it's that simple. Well, this issue, which Galicia was dragging with difficulty, appeared in the state political agenda. By the way, he appeared, and I'm going to say it — I know he's going to raise a cry of admiration in the popular benches but I have to say it — after the interview of the current Minister of Energy — which is true that, at least apparently, there seems to be a qualitative change to the previous one; it goes less to the Caribbean and has more time for this energy — with the President of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces. And, in fact, there is an agreement in the Government of Spain, which we believe is good in relation to the law on electricity management of the Spanish electricity system. But we want to go further, because we're talking about solving autonomous competences and, by the way, municipalities, and socialists, we're going to take it to the councils that have to take it, so that the municipalities too, as far as they have competences and have funding, act. And we have an agreement, indeed, at the level of the Government of Spain and I would like to see all the political groups of the Spanish Parliament in that agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u45	...but we're in the German Parliament. And I want to point out the Socialist Party's commitment and effort to finally get this issue into something as simple as a rational dynamic that energy is a central element of what is the concept of basic supplies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u46	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u47	...how can it be — Mr President — education, health or food. This seems to us all so obvious — and I am sure that at the seventy-five Members — unfortunately when we voted for many years or for many years, a part of this Parliament did not seem to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u48	Thank you, Mr. Losada. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u49	Good morning. From the Galego Nationalist Bloc Parliamentary Group, above all the nuances we have already seen in this House, with the Socialist Party on this issue, we believe that, in general, the motion deserves a positive assessment, as it promotes social measures that have the most affected people as recipients, precisely because of the consequences of the economic crisis and the increase in poverty, and because we understand, and we have already defended similar proposals in this House, that energy poverty is not only a real problem but that it is growing and that it is increasingly in our society, because there are more and more people, families and entire households who are unable to pay the basic supply bills, such as electricity, gas or water, especially in winter months, where their consumption is absolutely essential given our climate conditions. Just look at the data -- Mr. Losada gave some -- and if, for example, we go back to the IGE and we compare according to the structural survey home -- that this data also has to be picked up with clamps, as are the statements that tend to be smaller than the reality then, people who cannot afford to keep their housing with adequate temperature increased between 2011 and 2014, only in those years, in 100,000 people, and reach more than 564,000 people in our country who do not have the ability to keep their home in the winter months at a suitable temperature. This is absolutely dramatic and shows that all the measures that have been put in are simple patches that haven't changed reality, because that reality was the most. This is a situation that we have judged seriously since the BNG and which requires a clear political answer: assuming that the fact up to now has not been enough and being brave in trying out other issues. I used to say that the proposal agrees on some issues with something we have already defended since the BNG in this House itself, such as those proposals referred to as the administrations that make up some way the debt to the supplier company. Since the BNG we have proposed, also in this House, forcing supply companies not to cut energy by default in the face of the energy poverty situation in the winter months or to enable more ambitious compensation mechanisms and to cover from the Autonomic Administration those needs that these families may have. We understand that parliaments have an obligation to legislate for the good of the neighbours and neighbours and we understand that it is important that this debate be in the public lecture without intending us to assume its heritage. We think that's not the relevant thing but concrete solutions. We don't trust too much that big resolutions can be agreed on at the state level, so we bet on a Welsh strategy that is brave, concise, defining and allowing us to move forward, as they have advanced in other latitudes. It is worth recalling, for example, the case of the Catalan countries, with a vanguard of the Catalan Social Emergency Act, that then the Constitutional Court decided to take over a handful of competences, locating a situation that we hope will not happen to our country and demonstrating that the constitutional framework is a fairly limited corset, which even prevents the way of facts from boosting advanced social and political measures as we would like the BNG Group. In addition, we hope that in the coming months we will have an obligation to develop and implement the legal text that gave rise to that ILP that has been approved with regard to energy poverty and social emergency, and we hope that it will be truly ambitious, that it will not be mere caps and that it will be part of that own Greek strategy. I shall end my speech by saying that for us this debate cannot be isolated from other two: one is all those material, living, social and economic conditions that we have in our country, of which we speak in the first motion that we have discussed and of which Mr. Losada has raised some questions; and another, which we understand as fundamental in the debate on energy poverty — and since Galicia cannot be forgotten — is that we cannot tie the debate on energy poverty in our country into a necessary complaint of the Spanish electric system, both because it is an oligopolisus and a non-transparent functioning, as it is from the territorial point of view, something designed absolutely at the back of Galicia and which prevents, for example, that we can defend and elaborate something which we have already posed from the Group of the BNG as an electric tariff itself. You can't understand that in a country that is absolutely surplus in terms of production, that doesn't have any kind of return to the Galician population and is not an element of guarantee and social protection so that in this country there are no people who can have no light at home or who can't be protected from low temperatures in the winter months. It's absolutely incomprehensible. So we regret and assume that the Socialist Party, again, will not accept our amendment. However, we will vote in favour of this motion because we understand that adopting it is a small step forward and that on this issue we must bet on going to work on these consensuss, even though we would like in the future that the Socialist Party — who spoke before bravery — would also join this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u51	From Marea, of course, we will support this initiative because we understand that effective measures against basic supply cuts must already be implemented urgently, and we understand that this initiative, despite the nuances we may have, is in that sense. Actuating also means budgeting specific programmes and, above all, we understand that it would also involve accepting our budget amendment, which proposes to increase the expenditure ceiling to implement a real social wage in Galicia which would precisely avoid having these material deficiencies that prevent the payment of energy. We also defend a legislative framework on energy poverty, which is not limited to the State, but is here the Autonomous Community — as far as we have the competences of social policy — which has a regulatory framework to avoid these basic supply cuts. It is imperative to recall here — as has been done by the BNG Group — that the Constitutional Court annulled the Catalan decree banning these cuts of light by default, it considered a formal issue that invaded powers. And then we see how the state acts very quickly when it is legislated to the most vulnerable society, when it is against the big electrical companies, which, let's remember, in the last ten years, have increased prices by 76%. I mean, that's where the state acts fast. Yes, this cancellation was not made unanimously, because in the individual votes it was defended that autonomous communities had competences in the field because they were measures with social background and stressed that "the existence of this energy poverty is incompatible" — textually — "with a legal order that is defined as social and democratic". We want here to emphasize that access to energy is a citizen right; this debate must be on the table. Thus, in this development that we say, as a regulation at the German level, about energy poverty, we also defend the necessary investment in modernising energy systems of housing and the necessary involvement of electricity in the renovation of these obsolete installations. Let us remember that in Galicia this situation causes death. Every winter we see situations of burnt housing or infra-living — as well as the promoter group of this initiative — and that even this year caused a deadly victim in Ourense. It is therefore urgent to act in this modernisation of facilities and to agree with the suppliers of basic electricity services on the free review and repair of housing facilities belonging to people in energy poverty. Sign here that it is true that we have not made any more amendments to it, because we understand that this is a deeper debate that we will continue to give in that normative development also to that IGC ILP, which was also mentioned here, which has not accelerated its processing, because it has not arrived in Parliament to take into consideration until January 26, 2016. It has been taken into consideration unanimously and we hope that this unanimity will translate into a legislative development at the Greek level that we — we repeat — we understand that it must include this modernisation of energy systems. In addition, this is supported by European directives and states that "Member States may impose public service obligations, in the interests of general economic interest, including security of supply, regularity, quality and price of supply, as well as environmental protection, including energy efficiency and climate protection." We understand that this is perfectly supported. We also want to make reference to the fact that in energy poverty the first thing that comes to our head is to get cold in winter -- it's very hard that -- but also energy poverty can't get away from that situation unless we have water to be able to clean properly and not even have an electric energy to heat the food effectively. They're giving cases, in social dining, in which people ask not to be given a food that requires a great deal of energy expense because they don't have to pay to heat that food. We have to relate here also to energy poverty and health. Some figures: It is estimated that in 2014, about 7,000 premature deaths related to energy poverty occurred in the state. It's a matter, therefore, that covers industry, social policy, health... We will vote in favour of this initiative and, we repeat, our position is on these measures to act now. We agree with the social fund to meet these needs, but — we repeat — we would defend in a normative development that it was also the electric ones that took over compensation — it is also covered by European directives — and we also agree in particular with that initiative to eliminate bureaucracy in this kind of aid. I think Mr Losada has already said so, because it is often an obstacle to bureaucracy and the need for telematic access to issues in order to resolve this situation. I therefore voted in favour, with these nuances, but I voted in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u52	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The truth is, Mr. Losada, it's surprising that, within your account, you haven't talked about the Spanish electric system. I suppose you didn't want to talk because you know that the legacy that left your Government, the socialist, was a tariff deficit of EUR 24,000 million — denied but there is — and that, man!, during the last term of socialism in Spain, the receipt of light rose by 63% between 2007 and 2011. That's why families are 63% poorer and more vulnerable to electricity, don't you think? It's true that you're concerned about what they're showing now, they didn't show it before. Because, you know, while all this was going on, what were they doing? They campaigned like Miguel Sebastián's in which they sent you a little paper from these to the house so you went to Mail to pick up a light bulb; you spent 62 million euros giving each Spanish home a light bulb. That's the great concern about the electrical vulnerability and the electrical poverty of your party. You talk about war, I have to tell you that, in fact, existed in the Bipartite governments. No one here fights for doing things; the Government works together because there is a single Government and a united Government. As you know, the proposal we came to debate today here is overcome by reality. It's an initiative that comes to prayer. Mr. Losada, you know that, the whole Socialist Group knows that, and yet they have had the opportunity to take her out of the agenda and they haven't done it, but it's an over-the-counter initiative. Last week, a major parliamentary agreement allowed the reform of the Electric Sector Law to prevent supply cuts to vulnerable families. You brought us three papers, I bring you the BOE; the BOE this Saturday 24, because this was approved by the Government at the Council of Ministers on Friday 23rd after an agreement with his own party. Here it is: a royal decree that allows all this. If you don't listen to me, listen to another Abel, to Abel Knight. Look, "The Mayor of Vigo and President of FEMP, Abel Caballero, has celebrated the position and negotiator of Minister Álvaro Nadal," with which we understand that Mr. Losada will not dare criticize this agreement that he has already collected much of his requests. Here you are, this gentleman is Abel Caballero — another Abel — who says that "FEMP congratulates itself on the understanding with Christmas to avoid energy poverty." Where are they? Where are they? Where are they? Not with the Socialist Party, you can see that you must be an island within gala socialism and you are in other things. According to the sign, "power supply cannot be suspended for consumers who find themselves in the said situation or who are being cared for by the social services of the competent public administrations". That doesn't matter to you. Look, the system states that when an electric marketer receives a default, it should notify the user of the default and offer four months of waiting — before it was two, now four — since they are notified before the cut of the supply is considered. During this time, the marketer is obliged to contact the social services of the Autonomous Community to diagnose the situation of consumer vulnerability. And if so, the social bond will co-finance attention to the needs of these people. In this way, a part — like up to now — would pay the communities themselves, the municipalities, but also the marketers. So what was said from the tides of Podemos, I have to say it's not true. This royal signed decree is headed in a double direction: in the first, to establish a well-defined system of fighting energy poverty and, in the second, to improve the practices of traders. This is the reality. But it is true that, in addition, Mr Losada, the Government of Greece has approved in this last Council, on Thursday — if these newspapers have not had an opportunity to read them — a battery of measures that deepen in this same spirit, as it has done in recent years, with the implementation of the electric ticket: five thousand aids granted — now also extend to gas — and, therefore, there are also those emergency aids that have benefited a thousand families. So I think you haven't read the press; the PSdG is something different than the Socialist Party that signed this agreement with the Government of Spain. You bring back an initiative that is overcome by the facts. And to the tidelords, what I have to tell you is that when we sit down to negotiate the Socialist Party and the People's Party, you sent zero proposals to improve the electric ticket; zero proposals. It's true that they were very busy in Madrid doing that Twitter crack on Mr. Errejón and that here they were fighting to see if they were supporting Villares and if they weren't on the side of Julio Ferreiro — they were in those things — with the common people, with the offices, with the drivers, with the secretaries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u55	...but with vulnerable families, that's nothing. Look, do you know what you're doing? They weren't able to help a school dining room in Santiago; they promised a universal basic income in the Coruña, which is neither basic income nor universal income: a single beneficiary. We've been running a social integration income from Galicia since the early 1990s, Government Fraga, you know? In 2009 — you still ruled — 22 million euros devoted to Galician social integration income.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u57	Year 2017, EUR 57 million. Look, this Parliament is divided into two parts: those who do and those who speak, and the Socialist Party neither does nor does...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u59	...because he doesn't even know what he stands for in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u61	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Tellado, the truth is, he's fine. Yes, the press release of the last Board of Deputies I've already told you to read it. It's more: linen, print, and I've been upset to highlight some very relevant issues. For example, in the last three years, a total of 4,955 aids have been granted by a social electric ticket. I insist: either you lied, Counselor, or you missed the truth, or the journalists had a mistake. And, yes, the help to avoid light supply costs surpassed the thousand beneficiary families. Mr. Tellado, the Government of Spain, indeed, after this interview—as I have already spoken, I believe—between the president of the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces and Mayor of Vigo, Mr. Abel Caballero, who actually surprises me with his emotional variability, it's very good, it's an indicator that has nothing to do with a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u64	No, no, go on, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u65	...well, well, it's just that how sensitive it is with those subjects...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u66	No, but no, I'm not worried about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u67	Okay, okay, okay. After that interview, indeed, an agreement has been opened that affects only the Government of Spain, and we are in the Parliament of Galicia. And in this motion, we ask the Board to do certain things and ask the Government of Spain to do something that these fourteen days, indeed, has already done. I have no problem with removing the last point of the motion and changing it so that it was agreed between the People's Party and the Socialist Party in Madrid, it would only be missing! I understand you are concerned about the culinary issues and the rest of the motions; in any case, it is the one that signed the Socialist Group and we defend it. You are here, since the year 2009 when they arrived at the Government—which, of course, was in a dantesque crisis that Emilio Pérez Touriño and José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero did not perceive but the People's Party did— took exactly five years to move that crisis to budgets in relation to energy poverty. Five years, Mr. Tellado! And now I'm going to tell you how he was transferred in budgetary terms. Look, it was moved, first, with a level of execution that left unspent between 2009 and 2015, in the corresponding program, 45 million euros. If you have better data, for I... Mr. Counsellor, are the budget execution data provided by the Galician Union; if you are ill, please tell Mr. Fairy's advisor to review them. I'm the ones I've got and I think it's credit obligations. Well, I know you always question it, I don't know if there are multi-annualities here as well as in the Igape, but, in any case, if they're wrong, Mr. Consecutor of Fairy. And, look, what we do have are the 2016 budgets, where there were 2,600,000 euros in total for families and businesses and the target population were 7,000 aids — I insist that I am not making anything up. I understand that here Mr. Tellado never teaches a paper—well, today he taught Abel Caballero's picture, with which, in fact, I had a real climb—... But, in principle, I insist: 2,600,000... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u68	It's over. And about the amendment of the Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u69	...7,000 homes of Danish population. By 2017, in total: EUR 1.2 million. I haven't found any more, if you... the Government of Spain, yes, it's fine, it's great... I'm talking about the German Government because we're in the Galician Parliament, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u71	We're in the Galician Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u72	Thank you, Mr. Losada. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u73	I don't have to read the BOE. I'm telling you, I know exactly what you put in the BOE.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u75	I'm done right now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u76	About the amendment. Tell me about the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u77	I'm done right now. This EUR 1,200,000 for 13,000 people in the Danish population, that's what you put in the report of the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u78	Thank you. About the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u79	Then the pressure level is significant.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u80	No, no, look at the clock, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u81	I feel like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u82	The pressure level marks the clock, a minute past eighteen of time, Mr. Losada. That's the pressure, not mine, of the watch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u83	That's what's got time...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u84	Then tell me about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u85	...that is implacable...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u87	We're not going to accept the BNG amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u89	There's a popular legislative initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u91	...by means of this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u93	...and, therefore, it seems to us that this amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u95	... does not directly affect the issue of energy poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u96	Thank you. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u97	At the end of this motion we therefore proceed to the vote. We begin by voting on the motion by Mrs Paula Vázquez Verao from the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the initiative of Mrs Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to equal pay. Mr Vázquez Verao has already stated that he accepts the amendment as an addition to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and that he also accepts the vote on points proposed by the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Mr Vázquez Verao speaks words that are not perceived.]] Yeah? Please give a voice to Mrs Vázquez Verao's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u98	Yes, there's a transaction to vote on point 3. We accept the vote by points. And in point 3 there would be a transaction adding the amendment of the Socialist Group and reading it as a whole, it would be: "To call through the Galego Council of Labour Relations to employers and the most representative trade unions in their territorial and sectoral fields, to promote that in the collective negotiation of the Greek field it is considered objective to achieve effective wage equality between men and women in 2020." Adding: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to request from the Government of Spain a law of equal pay between men and women to guarantee, in a real and effective manner, the remuneration for the performance of work of equal value, removing all obstacles to access, training, promotion and conciliation that hinder it."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u99	Thank you. So we can vote on this point and the rest of the points later, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u101	Okay, perfect. We therefore vote, firstly, on the third point of the text which Mrs Vázquez Verao has just read to us. Vote for the transactioned text of point 3 of the G.P. Motion. De In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to wage equality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 71; votes against, none; abstentions, none. The voting is positive. Point 3 of this motion was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u102	We are now voting on the rest of the motion points, namely points 1 and 2. We vote. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u103	We call for a separate vote on points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u104	So we vote on these points separately. Let's vote point 1. Vote on point 1 of the G.P. Motion. De In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to wage equality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u105	Let us now vote on point 2 of the motion. We vote. Vote of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. De In Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Vázquez Verao, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to wage equality. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 18; votes against, 40; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this point of the motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u106	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela. It stated that it accepted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Galicia and En Marea, not the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, on the actions to be carried out in the field of the prevention of alcohol consumption by minors The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u107	We are now voting on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was not accepted. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to energy poverty The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u108	We are now debating the third item on the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 12 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government for the modernization of the railway line between Lugo and Ourense, through Monforte de Lemos, and the high-speed connection of Lugo with the Meseta
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u109	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u110	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. On the morning of September 1, 1883, the first train to complete the journey between Madrid and A Coruña entered Monforte station. King Alfonso XII, who traveled on the convoy, would participate in the village in the inaugural act of the railway line that would definitely unite Galicia with Madrid. In his speech he referred to the provision of railways to the Greek region, which would involve new farmers of wealth to trade, agriculture and national industry. The act put an end to a periployment of more than twenty-five years since Congress approved the construction of the railway to Galicia after a long and time-consuming process of insurmountable difficulties. From that starting station to the German railway to today the train has been carrying important changes in our villages, an essential element of development for Galicia, a dynamizer of our economy, of our development, a means that allows short distances and times, which links cultures and brings growth and modernity. But this journey, like our orography, has had highs and lows, significant advances and improvements, also aggravations with other territories that have enjoyed better services for years than Galicia. This situation is changing in recent years, despite the economic difficulties of the times we are going through, and there is a profound process of renewing and modernizing lines and services that are being carried out in our community, improving mobility and services for thousands of Greeks each day opting for this means of transport. A good example is the high-speed Atlantic axis. But it will be the finalization, ladies and gentlemen, of Galicia's high-speed connection to the Meseta which will truly mark one before and after our mobility, a milestone up to that initial connection of 1883. More than a hundred years later, we are here, like the other Greeks, waiting for a connection that in just over two hours will allow us to get from Ourense to Madrid, and confident of the enormous possibilities that high speed will offer us. Despite the fact that the decision of the current Government to continue even in times of crisis such as those we have been through in recent years did not relate to the consideration of the opposition, at present the entire route of Madrid-Ourense, except for access to the city, is in work or in service and the Ministry of Development has expressed its commitment and its willingness to speed up the work. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to this plenary session today a proposal that has to do with the railway, has to do with the renewal and modernisation of railway lines and services and has to do with Lugo. It is known that in recent years there have been improvements in the province's railway services, improvements that have occurred to the authorities of the People's Party's Government, such as the expansion of the frequencies of the Lugo-Madrid route, which have passed from one night train to four newspapers and has produced an increase of 21% between April and September this year. These improvements have also resulted in an increase of travellers in the mid-distance corridor of the Monforte Coruña to the point of going back to the year 2000 to find an annual number of travellers greater than 60,000, as is the case in the years 2014 and 2015. The variant of St. Xiao's Poverty, which is about to be completed, will undoubtedly represent an important railway improvement that will reduce time and provide better service to users. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough to take us to the vanguard of railway communications, especially when the opening up to the traffic of the railway Atlantic axis shows a comparative difference in services between Lugo and the rest of the capitals of the Greek provinces that are not compensated for the improvements involved. Five years after the entry into service of the first train that joined Ourense with Santiago and A Coruña through the high-speed trend, the user figures do not stop growing year by year. Recently, Renfe realized that trains before they covered this line have recorded in the last year the greatest increase in this service throughout Spain. These data, therefore, will represent the high-speed connection to the Meseta, make it a priority to promote and guarantee high-quality rail communications to Lugo that guarantee the territorial balance between the coast and the interior of Galicia, but also Lugo in relation to the rest of the provincial capitals. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia's high-speed connection to Madrid is at the door. When, like the 1st of September 1883, the first high-speed train connects Madrid with Ourense, Vigo, Santiago and A Coruña, Lugo cannot be isolated and to the edge of the advantages and the logistical and economic effects that the high speed produces where it arrives. This proposal calls for the modernization of the Lugo-Monforte-Ourense line to provide local citizens with better rail services and services, so that, connected with high-speed services, travel times between Lugo and Madrid are around three hours. You don't have to explain the importance of this communication, that this connection will have for Lugo, for the whole province. The neighbors of Lugo, from the south particularly, we know well what the railway brings, what the railway brings. Monforte's railway knot brought prosperity and development for more than fifty years, and we therefore know the importance of counting with vanguard rail communications. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, is not a mere statement of intent. Since the infrastructure plan 2000-2007 the modernization of the Lugo-Monforte-Uurense line, with a philosophy similar to the transformation of the railway axis, have been many avatars of this project. Now the proximity of high-speed connection with the Meseta forces you to give an answer and solution to a province that would otherwise be at the edge of the advantages that high speed would provide to the rest of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party is the main promoter of the improvement of railway infrastructures to Lugo and leads the claim to the Ministry of Development of a 21st century line Lugo-Monforte-Ourense. There are many occasions when the president of the board has shown his commitment to modernising this line that allows connection to high-speed services. The report by Professor Miguel Rodríguez Bugarín, who we understand is a railway authority in our community, the instance of the Atlantic axis, endorses this proposal. An improvement in the infrastructure that lifts the speed of movement, we slow down by variants or corrections of the layout that not only allows Lugo to sit with regard to Madrid at times similar to Vigo or Coruña, but also allows the provision of competitive medium distance services, improving the quality of the service for all users. An action which is economically assumed and which, based on variants of tracing, can be planned in successive phases, adapting to budgetary availability. Ladies and gentlemen, the Provincial Deputies of Lugo and the corporations of the Town Councils of Lugo and Monforte have unanimously approved initiatives based on the above-mentioned report. These considerations on the importance of this proposal, not of course, are unnecessary, ladies and gentlemen. The current Government's commitment to the execution of AVE to Galicia did not find favor for opposition groups. The BNG has shown against high speed and has even claimed that the Board has abandoned — and I repeat its words — its complicity with these designs. In Marea not only did he carry it not only in his program, but they have even proposed paralyzing the works of the high-speed train, adding to what they called the "white brand" of the People's Party, but they have also stated that this would be a rich train. Nor does the Socialist Party support this reflection, considering the comparative worsening of the execution of high-speed lines in other autonomous communities in relation to high-speed processing and projects affecting Galicia. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, now that your plans are mistaken I hope to count on your support for this initiative that proposes to modernise the railway line between Lugo and Ourense through Monforte, the service of the variant of the Poor of San Xiao, that for this purpose priority should be given to the necessary investments that facilitate Lugo's connection with the services of high speed, that guarantee a time of travel around three hours and that calls for strategic planning by phases, establishing annualities in economically viable times, and that the departures to advance in the construction projects are collected in the 2017 budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, when, as on September 1, 1883, the first high-speed train that connects Madrid to the Coruña, Lugo cannot and does not even want to be a mere spectator who sees the train pass, and therefore, as Curros said, on the occasion of the arrival of the first locomotive to Ourense, that behind it came the fullness, light and progress, I hope to welcome this project. In Lugo we want to be participants in that light, progress and filling that high-speed locomotives will bring to Galicia and therefore I hope that they will be able to support this proposal. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Quiroga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u113	President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. The train no longer has the role it played in the second industrial revolution, where it was literal and really the socio-economic locomotive that it drew from the emerging countries, from the developed countries. Nobody's better than he's been urging people, raw materials, technology and capital. Even with these differences of historical-geographical context, we must not let it fall into the laxity of allowing a third-world railway service to Lugo, which leaves it undisturbed, that leaves it immersed in a well where it does not go out. The great delay in rail transformation needs to be reversed with the support of all and the determined bet to overcome obstacles that impose economic criteria and make it difficult to prioritize the expansion of high speed in Lugo province. The immediate improvement of the Lugo-Ourense line by Monforte is a step in the right direction, a step in the right direction that should not exclude future implementations. Raising the speed to significantly reduce travel times, as is said in a study already reported here, from 100 minutes to 60 minutes is good news, and it will allow you to match the travel times they have or will have from La Coruña and from Vigo. So let's repeat again that this is a good step, probably as much as possible, what can be done today. But to take this little advance forward, we need to have much more determination and unity. They present today a non-law proposition in the right direction, but we understand that lack of determination, to which the decision of the clear bet is lacking. A proposal where no deadlines or budgets are marked is not a serious proposal, or at least it doesn't seem to us, and everything that doesn't take deadlines or budgets does not cease to be a mere declaration of good intentions. But there are also fundamental issues in this proposal, such as the lack of the Intermodal of Lugo and the recovery of Ourense, which is not known where it is lost. Look, ladies and gentlemen, you can't help but promise to make the AVE from Lugo to Ourense with the Budget of the Board, as was done on 11.1.2009, and bring to Parliament a proposal where you ask, request, demand, insist, beg, that you are very well all this, but it looks more like an administration than an administration. Because what we have to do is demand and demand, which is the administration's own. And proof of what we're saying is that at the end of the resolution it's done with "budgets must already collect the splits"; long we trust it if we use that kind of expression, instead of a blunt, "they have to reflect already," "they have to reflect", "they have to be explained in the budgets." For all this, we are proposing amendments, we have already proposed amendments, which reinforce and base this proposal not of law, with courage, with the spirit of improvement, and we understand that one should be included at least in this proposal that is brought here today, so that Lugo does not fall off from the railway advances of high speed, a series of measures such as those that go through our amendments: to start drafting of pending projects, to put in place already the works paralyzed – – because there are paralysed – –, to cancel the paralysing of the Lugo intermodal and to regain the one of Ourense, and of course a budgetary provision with the necessary arrangements to comply with the deadlines which are written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u114	Thank you, Mr. Quiroga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u115	Good morning. I wanted to start by saying to the spokesperson of the People's Party that anyone who wanted to make high-speed cuts in Galicia was the Minister of the People's Party, Mr. De la Serna, not in Marea, that we demand that the high-speed line be completed under the conditions of the original project, no less. To make it clear, it was Mr. De la Serna who once again wanted to make discounts in Galicia. As Mr Tejat said, about the PSOE, that there was one PSOE here and another in Spain, because the People's Party on Infrastructure also seems obvious: AP-9, AVE... It seems that the People's Party in Galicia is not asking for autonomy, is that the People's Party in Spain calls for autonomy in the People's Party in Galicia and makes them little case. It seems more and more Mr. Feijóo like those Spanish military who were specialists in great sentences after losing battles, which, by the way, is what the Spanish Army has been doing for 400 years, which only wins against its people. "I did not send my ships to fight against the elements," said Philip II. Well Mr. Feijóo, too: AP-9, Pemex, high speed, unmet promises that served for the campaign but that are nothing but wet paper the next day. Of course, it's always the fault of the others, of the price of oil, of a year with a government in function, but never of Mr. Feijóo, who is very given to make big election promises, as the socialist spokesman mentioned here, who in 2009 said that he was going to make the high speed, the AVE Lugo-Ourense, with the money of the Galician Union and that then they would pass the bill to the Government of the State. Call me a trick! And it was an AVE, but you asked AVE for Lugo-Ourense, which is not what they're asking for today, in the general elections and in the last autonomous elections. In September you still claimed AVE between Lugo and Ourense and three months later they come with a proposal, which we will then analyze, but which is not AVE of course. Today I bring a proposal that we believe goes the right way, but it is an amendment to the whole of what you've been supporting in the last 20 years; that's exactly what we've said repeatedly: public resources; money is finite and, therefore, you have to see how socially useful it is. We always said that there were more sustainable models economically, environmentally and socially, and that they also defined a territorial model for this country different from what defined the high speed and obsession of high speed and connection to the Meseta. We did believe that it was a fate to spend billions of euros in an AVE, in connection with the Meseta, when there were these precious works, which were a business for the great builders above all – – how much more expensive, better; the more expensive, better solutions; always the more expensive solutions –, with ways that, of course, spokeswoman of the People's Party, have not been modernised for a hundred years without updating, as there are lines in this country such as that of Ferrol-A Coruña or like that of FEVE, who is in sad conditions. We believe that this solution – – which, by the way, you go up to the car of a report prepared by Mr. Bugarín at the instances of the Atlantic axis, improvising again – allows a cheaper solution but also better craftsmanship and vertebrae the territory through which it passes, because being a competitive speed one hour between Lugo-Ourense — it seems competitive – it also allows for better gearing and connecting and continuing to keep the grips of the intermediate towns. It's good for us, it's good for us. What we don't think is that you are acting in the improvisation coup, that you don't have an integral plan for this country, that you should start by asking for competences in comprehensive rail policies for Galicia and designing an integral model of transport, taking into account intermodality as well. You don't; you do infrastructure policy at the improvisation blow and the election promise blow. So we say, we miss proper planning, we think this is a suitable model for this country. It is only necessary to see what this alternative is that allows the traffic of goods and passengers, which costs less than half the AVE solution, than the high speed solution, less than half. Let's imagine what could be done in this country with another approach in the last 20 years. But we also miss the realization in your proposal. There is no concretion, as has already been said here, and we believe that at least, and that is why we make our amendment, if we have to specify deadlines and if we have to realize something that has a lot to do with; that is, this cannot be implemented, this service, this path cannot be set in motion if it is not defined before and it is not previously solved, precisely as it is going to be the entry of AVE into Ourense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u117	I'm done. We demand in our amendment that the Taboadela-Ourense variant be made with the high-speed conditions compromised in the original project, including track width, security conditions and tracing. And in addition, we are asking for the realization that the construction projects of the variants of Rubian, the Pearls, the Monforte de Lemos and the final end of the Poor of St. Xiao, which we do not know what is the mystery of being paralyzed during these years.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u118	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u119	You can surely answer us — I'm finished —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u120	No, thanks, look at the watch.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u121	...you can clarify us later when the reason for this paralysis comes. And finally, the compromise — and finished — of these variants before 2020. I think they're commitments that can be assumed and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u122	Thank you very much. Two minutes; yes, it's all like that, two minutes. You can be generous, but, of course, there comes a time when we might have had a little time. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u123	Well, thank you. The first: it's good that the spokesperson for the People's Party reminds us of the date the train arrived in Monforte, because the route remains the same; then, it's good that we put ourselves in a position of the state where we have the infrastructures in our country. And he pointed out in some way or blamed us or was looking for responsibilities in the opposition benches to justify the delay, delays or lack of political agreement on the high-speed train, the AVE, on his arrival in Galicia, and I was looking, preparing this intervention, remixing the hemerothec, and it's that the high-speed train would arrive in this country in 2007. It was announced by the Government at that time by the People's Party and by the Fraga-Cuña binomy. At the time, she said that this high-speed train would be running, that it would reach beyond the seven cities of this country, and that – Guarantee – it would become operational in 2007, because it said that it was financed from European funds and that this required compliance within the deadlines. In all light that promise has already been fulfilled. Later, it extended that deadline. Soon he would come in 2009, then in 2012, then in 2015, finally in 2018 and this year, 2016, he would not finally know if there would be a clear commitment by the Spanish Government to get that high speed in the conditions under which he was promised there by the years 2000 to Galicia. In 2007, which would arrive that high-speed train to Galicia, began the construction works, as already pointed out here, of the variant of the Poor of San Xiao, who now demand speed in their put into operation. We've been 10 years, 10 years, nothing more, nothing less, waiting for that variant of the Poor St. Xiao to work. But the most paradigmatic of this review of the hemerothec was precisely that election campaign of 2009 and a rally, quite congregated and with a great parish, by Alberto Núñez Feijóo, at the time candidate for the Presidency of Galicia, in the Auditorium Gustavo Freire, of Lugo, and there Mr Feijóo guarantees — it was said here — that it would be with money from Junta how the high-speed train from Lugo to Ourense would arrive, and that later — it was remembered by the other political forces in their interventions — would pass the bill to the Ministry of Development and to the Spanish Government, whenever the Spanish Government at that time was in the hands of Socialist Rodríguez Zapatero. They arrived at Galician Union in 2009 and then recovered in their absolute majority and we continued to wait for that promised money by Alberto Núñez Feijóo at that rally at Gustavo Freire in Lugo. But to me, if there's something that has surprised me enormously, which I really liked, it was the first line of the motivational exhibition of the People's Party initiative, which is all because it's a bomb and dish to the modernization system of our railway map. They say that it is also obvious — and I understand that it is undeniable — that the railway map of Greece is the subject of a profound process of renewal and modernization of lines and services, and you go and choose the most isolated city in our country by rail. You choose the city of Lugo, and you speak and urge the Spanish Ministry to connect us in a period of time not exceeding three hours with the Spanish capital. We're talking about a city where it's impossible to come by train to Santiago de Compostela. A day like today, for example, for not going any further, if I wanted to come by train from Lugo to Santiago de Compostela, to attend this plenary, I couldn't, because the only line that comes out is at four o'clock in the afternoon, and has a duration of 2.35 minutes; that not to mention the transhipments that will have to do — now I tell you what the route is — and a cost of 22 euros. You have to leave on time at four o'clock in the afternoon of the city of Lugo, and you go: Sarria, Monforte, Ourense, there they change train and take the famous Avant, of what the People's Party Member said, they make the waiting time for them to correspond, and they do come later from Ourense to Santiago de Compostela. Do you really believe that we can accept that we create a high-speed train if it doesn't inevitably happen because we have connections of proximity and proximity appropriate to the needs of our population? I took the capital of the country, with which the logic should have been connected all the cities of our territory and our geography. But we can't go to Vigo. The spokesperson for the People's Party said: "To arrive in Madrid at the same time as we arrive in Vigo." It's impossible to leave Lugo to Vigo by train, impossible! You take Renfe's schedules. It's impossible! But let's look for something closer to Lugo: The Navy. It's impossible to go from Lugo to the Navy. I mean, what you're thinking here is that we all get in your car and applaud with our ears the arrival of a high-speed train that was not only promised until satiety, but that it was timeless, delayed and, the most serious of all, overpowered. I know that you don't like me using that word, but it's been wrecked on a number of occasions, because what you promise us or you intend to compromise the Spanish Government today doesn't match the commitments you've made...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u125	...for many years of the People's Party in the Government, both of the United States and of the Spanish State. We won't be able to put stones on the way for the high-speed train to reach our country, but what we ask them for is also a bit of seriousness when they bring here measures and initiatives that choose cities like Lugo, which are absolutely an island in this country with regard to the train. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Group author of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll start with the spokesperson for the Galician Nationalist Block, since it was the last. See, perhaps, if you had read the proposal and Mr Bugarín's report well, you would understand that with this proposal you will see significant improvements in the connections of neighbors and, therefore, that will have an impact on all communications from Lugo towards Ourense. But I want to ask you something. Look, come here and tell us -- and teach us -- that the People's Party doesn't do it. Look, where were you when Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero ruled this country? Where were you when you were supporting government budgets? Where were you...? [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm gonna tell you, when Mr. Zapatero's government and the Tourin Bipartite promised that AVE would arrive in Galicia in 2012, did BNG know what it was doing? He manifested himself in Lubian to demand that the works be accelerated. And at the same time, do you know what they were doing? They allowed, or prevented, better, the reprobation of Minister Magdalena Álvarez. At that point, they didn't -- I mean, at that time they didn't -- you guys saw and allowed how for years the Socialist Party punished this high-speed project, and now they come here to teach us lessons. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you really don't believe in this project, you actually do what you charge is against it. I just told you that high speed will have a positive impact on Galicia's communications with the Meseta, but also on communications between the cities of Galicia. But you are a project that you do not share, of course. And, therefore, if it depended on you, the AVE would not arrive in 2009, neither in 2012, nor in 2015, it would never come; it would not come, of course. [[Murmurs.]] So I'm going to refer to the amendment the Socialist Party has made. Look, they've just claimed us determination. Determination can be claimed. As a statement of intent is very good, but you, when you first consider the connection by AVE to Galicia in the 2000-2007 Infrastructure Plan, in the Government of Aznar, at that time the modernization of the Lugo-Monforte-Ourense line is planned, and it turns out that the information study is approved in 2001. It's not until the year 2008 that they selected an alternative, and in the environmental impact, it turns out they chose an alternative that collected that in 67 kilometers it was not possible to exceed 160 kilometers per hour. What model of AVE was that? Well, I want to explain what model this is. It's a model that allows plots and plots to slow down if you make an improvement or correction of the plot, or an improvement of the plot, to precisely allow for appreciable increase in speed. I know you don't like this, they don't like it. I accept that the Tide goes up to this option, to this proposal, and I accept that the Socialist Party feels good too. We want Lugo to be sooner than late connected to ourense's high speed. And I want to correct you when you said that the president of the board had already promised high speed. I was worried to read his demonstrations, and even took part in some act on which he was talking about high speed; indeed, the high speed that will allow Lugo to reach Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u129	...at the same time you can get from Vigo or from La Coruña. We're not going to accept their amendments, among other reasons because they put time limits on us, they put our duties on us... listen, what's clear is that our proposal is that it's the Government itself, which, by analysing each of the plots, determines which way it's going to be the best way, which is going to be the best mechanism to carry them out. And in addition, we ask that the budget splits be given. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going to accept your amendments. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government to achieve the same educational burden in Greek as in Spanish in the various courses of the ESO
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u131	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u132	There are some classic themes, which are the Lugo train and linguistic normalization in this country; for we are going to move on to the next one, in this case. The initiative that my group defends, which we defend from the Galician Nationalist Block today here, which urges or demands, demands or claims to the Greek Government, is to comply with the law. It is so easy to comply with the law on linguistic standardization, both those rules and the legal framework that we have given ourselves in our country, as well as those other rules that come under Community law, as can be the European Charter of minority and minority languages. What we want is that you comply with that legislation, after the overwhelming evidence that the language of this country, that the language of this country, that the Greek language, continues to be expelled from the classroom. But apart from the situation in which we were left with the approval of Decree 79/2010, the so-called "Decree", from which we can no longer impart scientific-technological materials in the English language, the entry into force of LOMCE and the consequent reformulation of academic curricula relegates the Greek language no longer to the second division, but to the third, or even to the fourth. Through the IGC-Essino and more of the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, we know, both the political forces that make up this House and the German Government itself – because they went directly to the council – that the educational hours given in English and Spanish to secondary students, after the explosive combination, almost as if it were a molotov cocktail, between the "decretacy" and the LOMCE, leaves in a situation of marginality the Greek language. A high school student to this day in our country receives less than 15% of the subjects in the English language, violating the applicable legality, as it said, and, among that legality, the very "Decree" 79/2010, the one who placed the provision of teaching hours in English, and more in Spanish in 33%, equalizing three languages that in all light are not even by way of assumption in the same situation in our country. This decree itself 79/2010, because it does not reach 33% the teaching hours in the English language, although in that "decretacy" they were assigned 24 hours in the Greek language in the ESO. It is not that we defend — nor is it my intention, nor our political force — the 'Decree' 79/2010. On this very initiative, we called for its derogation, as we have historically since its adoption, as social agents have also claimed, not only trade union organizations in teaching, but also the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization and the Royal Galaga Academy, among other institutions, but what we want to put into evidence and on the table is that the German Government does not even comply with those laws it approves. If you do a simple operation, combining that school curriculum with the teaching hours that are shared in each of the corresponding languages with each of the subjects, that combination between the "decretacy" and LOMCE, you'll see that the linguistic discrimination of Greek in the classrooms is hardened precisely by that combination. In high school we have 31 hours in Spanish and only 18 hours in English in applied teachings, which only rise to 21 hours if we talk about academic teachings. However, far from the fact that only the "Decree" 79/2010 is not being fulfilled, neither is the Law of Linguistic Standardization or the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization adopted many years ago, with that consensus that you appeal to and so much beg, but that they do not practice, from our point of view. In view of this socio-linguistic reality that we live in our country and which highlights data recently made public in the past legislation, to be more accurate by the Instituto Galego de Statística, placing the levels of habitual use of Welsh, especially among youth, in its minimal history, what we are launching is a very clear message, from our point of view, to our youth. Since the school is one of the main socialization agents, if only the language of the language used is used as a vehicle language in teaching, if besides, in our environment of friends and family, it is not usually used in the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the country, and how can you check by turning to the kiosks, even today in the media is practically residual, the message that we send to our youth is: what good can I do if I can make my life with much more ease in the Spanish language of the language of the language of the language of the country? We understand that if you really want to normalize the Greek language, as it is one of the commitments on the part of the council and on the part of the Government itself, if you really want to normalize the Greek language in this country, what we consider is that you should stop treating the Greek language as a foreign language in your own country, especially when you refer to the younger people. If what we want, on the other hand, is to value what we can do a normal, joyful and vicious life using our own language, what we must start by using it in those spaces where the Administration has an important decision-making capacity, such as school. In this sense — and I am finished, because I believe that the most interesting debate can be based on their interventions, what we claim with this initiative is the derogation of this "declared" initiative, of 79/2010, because it is not even complying with its regulations in that explosive combination with LOMCE; to ensure, in the meantime, that there is no derogation from and a new decree on linguistic normalization in teaching, at least the same educational burden in both Greek and Spanish; and, of course, to apply effectively and effectively and with political commitment and political decision to the Law on linguistic normalization of 1983 and to the development of the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization of 2004, which, as you know – as you know – as you can read it yourself–, what you consider is that the necessary political measures must be taken to ensure the fairness of our language within public spaces. For my band, nothing else, and I hope to count on this case with the support of the House's political forces to take this initiative forward.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Of course, we're going to support this non-law proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block. I think we have expressed our opinion on the so-called "Plurilingualism" on a number of occasions in this plenary session, in committees, in the street, in every forum where we could. Because, of course, we are absolutely against this so-called Multilingualism Decree, because we consider it to be a clear regression in the linguistic normalization policies that led this government of President Feijóo, and that it also had a very serious consequence, which was the rupture of a consensus that was held around all groups since the governments of President Fraga. The result of this consensus was the Law of Linguistic Standardization and then the General Plan of Linguistic Standardization, broken with this Decree of Plurilingualism. A decree that we not only reject, but I will repeat it again, Counsellor — I thank you for being here in this debate — because I am still very surprised that, having all you have against this decree, they will continue to maintain their vigilance. Because, contrary to the decree of plurilingualism, we are not only the opposition groups, it is against the Royal Galaga Academy, the Galician Council of Culture, the Galician School Council, the Sectoral Bureau of Education, the Advisory Council, the Confapa, the Jurists' Association, the three universities, the pedagogical renewal movement, all trade unions. Who's in favor? The People's Party, unique and exclusively; and the People's Party, because at one point in 2009 he wanted to take a handful of votes, only. But not only are all these institutions and political parties opposed and show the problems that the Plurilingualism Decree has. The Council of Europe, through the reports of the Committee of Experts on the implementation of the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages — as you all know — in the Fourth Report clearly censures the actions of the Government of Greece on the use of Greek in education. It says textually — because it's textual what I'm going to read — this report: "The Decree of Plurilingualism reduces to one third the use of one's own language while prohibiting the use of Greek in the teaching of subjects such as mathematics, physics or chemistry". And he expresses his absolute concern about the use of Greek in our education and says that the Spanish Government's commitments are being breached and also the commitment of the Greek Government to the use of language in education. All that was manifested in all the reports of the Council of Europe, in the Fourth Report is even clearer. The own — as we have already said — surveys we have, above all the Survey on the knowledge and use of Greek, clearly make it clear that since the decree of plurilingualism was implemented in schools, 51% of students and students receive classes mostly in Spanish, 9 points more than in 2008. Of course, the consequences of all this have not been made to wait. As it has been repeated here on several occasions, and as we know clearly — even though the Government or the Council of Culture does not want to affirm and recognize it — it only uses in 5% of children's schools and in cities of more than 50,000 inhabitants of Galicia as a single language, in 40% of children's schools are not used at all. What does this have as a consequence? That children and girls don't have any notions of Greek when primary school comes, much of the children and girls don't know anything about Greek when primary school. Of course, I also want to remember that all surveys point out that in the last five years, the degree of use of Welsh, especially in young people and girls, but also in children and in the general population, has come down very alarmingly. However, they had to be sounding all the alarms at the Education Council, and above all evaluate already — which is your obligation, Counsellor — once the universities offered their help to do so, scientifically the consequences of the Plurilingualism Decree. Because, Counselor, there's no harmonic bilingualism here, as you wanted, there's a monolingualism here in Spanish. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u136	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to close a year in which we commemorate a century of the Brotherhood of Speech, a hundred years that brave women and men, committed to what was ours, had made their flag the defense of the language of our country, they and they themselves militants of Galicia. I'd like to take advantage of it to remember that forgetfulness is a further form of macho violence. That's why today I wanted to keep in mind that there were also women who made this flag of yours. We speak of Maria Miramontes, Amparo López, Micaela Chao, Elvira Bao, Pura Lorenza, Coroa González, among others. Unfortunately this year's commemoration cannot be accompanied by a celebration of the good health of our language, as has already been said here; quite the contrary; in recent years we only see the number of speakers back. In addition, the Government of the People's Party, which has the legal obligation to defend the language of Galicia, was the main culprit of the retreat of our language. Not only has he not fulfilled his previous commitments, such as the General Language Standardization Plan, but he has carried out a series of actions that clearly go against the language of the country. Of course this is what brings us here today, the decree of plurilingualism, famous decree against the Greek that has been adopted from behind the entire educational community and with the unanimous rejection of it; rejection that has been repeatedly denounced by bodies such as the Galaga Academy and the Council of Culture and even by international committees such as the Council of Europe for the European Charter of Languages, which has come to warn of a standard that put the role of the Greek at risk in school. A decree that is being accompanied by the disappearance of children's education classes in the Spanish language, the veto on their use in scientific-technical matters, or the goal of a reduction to a third of their presence in education, which means not only the quantitative degradation of the language but the qualitative degradation. What message do you think we're giving future speakers when they tell them that math or physics can't be studied in English? For there are languages of first and second and that the Greek is of second, that the Greek is useless, that is useless, because serious things must be learned in Spanish or in English. In this way, the opportunity of revaluing the language, which should be offered in the classroom, is not wasted, and the teaching of Greek is equal to the teaching of a foreign language. All of this accompanied by a constant reduction in the budget in language matters; here they have cut since they arrived in the Government nothing more and nothing less than 78%, being the function of budgets with the greatest fall of all; a game that, taking into account the estimated IPC for the next year, will not only increase, but will be reduced by 0.29%, so that they insist on the abuse and abandonment of the language of the country. The situation, far from improving, is aggravated by the entry into force of its Spanish Education Law and the consequent modification of ESO curricula, which, as noted here, is reducing teaching in English, which will have 13 hours less than Spanish teaching in ESO for applied teachings and less than ten in academic teachings. So, with LOMCE, the situation of discrimination and marginalization that has already provoked the aforementioned decree is getting worse. Thus, the school instead of being a preferred area of linguistic socialization, of anchorage in the language it should be, becomes a clearly disintegrating place. Budget drowning and hostile political actions that leave a clear effect on the number of speakers. People who speak in English are usually less and older. And -- which is more serious -- the anti-linguistic policies of this government are impeding the right of a large part of Galician citizenship to live fully in our language. It's your responsibility. It's not an irreversible situation, it's quite the opposite. There are outstanding experiences in different parts of the world about how the political commitment of governments has promoted the revitalization of languages. That's why we need to turn back to the wrong policy that's going on. They've already said it before: it's not that the opposition parties say it, it's that all citizenship has manifested itself in this direction, starting with the school. We're not asking for anything new. As we said earlier, you yourselves have signed the Covenant for linguistic normalization, now only a lack of compliance. May they meet some of the laws they approve. May it not continue to happen with the laws what with the principles of the New Year, which are relegated to wet paper or merely toast to the sun. That's why we're going to vote yes to BNG's non-legislative proposal, and we hope that you too will. It would be a great opportunity to prove that they are truly militants of Galicia and a magnificent news to close the centenary of the Brotherhood of Speech. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u138	Thank you, President. What would be, of course, good news to close the centenary of the Brotherhood of Speech would be that the opposition would cease to bring an element that constitutes us as a people and equips us with cultural identity as a people as the language is and permanently converts it into an element of political confrontation, as they do over and over again with their repeated initiatives in this House. That, of course, would be very good news. Because the truth is that it doesn't make much sense to be talking about whether you want to defend the language and whether you want to defend our heritage and our cultural identity when, precisely, what you're doing day by day is using it as a tool to break society. In that sense, society, which is also very wise, knows how to respond and continues to respond in the same line and referenda the policy that is being pursued by the German Government. I want to point out that, above all that has been said here in this debate, in this non-law proposition, there is a question that is false, it is radically false. It is said that the law is not complied with, and it must be pointed out that it is scrupulously complying with the Law of Linguistic Standardization, which in its article 12 points out that the Greek, as Galicia's own language, is also the official language in teaching at all educational levels, and that the Council of Galicia will regulate the normalization of the use of official languages in teaching. Article 13, for example, points out and guarantees that children have the right to receive first education in their mother tongue and the task of arbitrating measures aimed at promoting the progressive use of Greek in teaching is attached to the educational authorities of the Autonomous Community. But we also have a national legislative framework, which obviously must also be applied in the Autonomous Community, which is the legislative framework derived from LOMCE. In its additional provision, the eighth is indicated that for the Spanish language, co-official languages and languages that enjoy legal protection, educational administrations will guarantee the right of students to receive the teachings in Spanish, in the official language of the State, and in the other co-official languages in their respective territories. Spanish is a vehicle language of teaching throughout the state and the co-official languages are also in their own autonomous communities in accordance with their statutes and applicable regulations. In addition, it must be noted that the compulsory secondary education phase consists of one hundred twenty-eight hours, of which only have their language determined by decree about 60%. There is therefore 40% left for each centre to decide on the language of the rest of the subjects to ensure balance at the educational stage, just as the decree of plurilingualism, which you want to derogate. In addition, if the centre is multilingual or incorporates teachings into another language, it will be the centre itself, which will also ensure the balance of the Italian/Spanish. Therefore, the general balance rule as set out in Articles 4.2 and 7.4 of Decree 79/2010 continues to apply. So each center has to ensure that this balance is met. The linguistic policy of the Union was also the result of a process of listening to society and deciding, not as it is from other political groups, in which the very opposite is done. And the fruit of this period of listening to Junta has presented a decree whose fundamental keys are: firstly, maximum balance between official languages, the Greek and Spanish, at all educational stages; it bets by effective plurilingualism, with the possibility that the centres may reach up to a third of their weekly teaching hours given in foreign languages; and, in addition, commitment to the promotion of Greek. The decree abides by the Law of Linguistic Standardization and has a new article with the title of empowerment of the Greek language in the centres, which also establishes a general framework for promoting Greek through language promotion activities. In addition — which seems to be something we want to forget — this linguistic policy was reflected in the election program of the People's Party of Galicia in 2009, in 2012, in 2016, in the same way that the linguistic policy of the other groups also appeared collected in these electoral programs, so it was the Greeks and the Greeks who chose this way of acting with regard to the use of the two official languages in the educational system. Balance and not confrontation, freedom and common sense, that was the formula chosen by the Greeks and the Greeks. From the Popular Parliamentary Group, we believe that in no case should the language be a reason for confrontation, for taxation or separation, but quite the opposite; what has to be a tool and an element of joint union and joint work. It's absurd, moreover, to continue trying to convince that our political group is the main enemy of our language, since no one would understand that the majority party of Galicia, born in Galicia and where its vast majority of voters are precisely Galician, will go against its own nature. In no case are we going to allow the political appropriation of an element of self-identity as is our language on the part of any political group. And, therefore, demonizing us in this way is a lost battle, and in view it's after September 25th. It's time to work seriously for that Galician and that language we all want in a responsible way. And I must therefore tell you that this decree is in force supported by most of Galician society on several occasions and, therefore, at this moment it makes no sense to question it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u139	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u140	First of all, thank you for the support of the Socialist Party and more of En Marea for this initiative. And with regard to the intervention of the People's Party Member, look, we do not demonize or create any political confrontation with the language. We are our language rights, collected — I told you — in those instruments of which we have been progressively providing since the arrival of democracy supposedly to our country and since the adoption of the Statute of Self-Government, which recognizes officiality, the official character of the Greek language in our country. And that for the first time in 2010, precisely for the first time since the adoption of the Autonomy Statute, I came to restrict and restrict the presence of the Greek language even though there was a sociolinguistic reality of diglossia, of linguistic conflict and of profound substitution, linguistic substitution above all among the younger age groups. It was the first time that it was regulated and was going to be at the expense of the teaching hours in English in our country since the adoption — I say — of the Linguistic Standardization Act of 1983. You speak of balance and freedom, but the data say otherwise. And we're not demonizing anyone, we're putting a reality on the table through a survey by the Galego Institute of Statistics. It is not that the Bureau, the IGC, the Block or -- I don't know -- any group, or the Bipartite -- to put that seven-head monster back in front of the debate. And what that survey says is that those under 15 years of age who always use or mainly the English language are less than 25%; that is, 75% of people under 15 make sure they don't use Greek in their daily lives. We'll have to ask ourselves why our people don't speak their language and put the measures necessary to normalize the Welsh language as a useful language and a language of use for our daily life. But that survey of the Galego Institute of Statistics placed 22% the percentage of those children and adolescents, that is, under 15 years of age, who recognized that they knew little or nothing about their language. Something will happen inside the school if there is 22% — a 22.7%, specifically — of a population under 15 years of age in our country who says they know little or nothing about our own language. Something is happening, because the figures and percentages of knowledge and degree of use of English, for example, are actually increasing. But this cannot be detrimental in any case to the presence and knowledge and the normalized use of this country's own language. We do not confront, what we are trying to do is to bring up a debate — we really intend to do so — about this House, and that you recognize that the reality that prevails in this country's schools and secondary schools, in the combination of the decree with the reform of the school curricula after the approval of LOMCE, relegates, but most of it, the teaching hours and the teaching burden in the Greek language in our country. And in front of that, what do you want us to do, what do you want us to cross our arms, what do you want us to applaud with your ears and say how good it is? No, we'll have to come here and bring in proposals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u142	...to improve the linguistic situation that we live in our country and especially with regard to the normalization of uses of Greek. That's why we are demanding the derogation from that decree, which led them to the courts, and appealing to that famous freedom, and dropped precisely those surveys that intended to give the key to the families of the language in which their children would be educated and educated. What we propose and stand for is to return that consensus, that consensus so often begged in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u144	They're back, they're derogating from the decree and we're going to recover the presence of our own language in high school, in high school, in elementary school and, of course, in college. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the fulfilment of the legislation governing equality in the field of education
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u146	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Male violence has its roots in inequality. It's an extreme form of violence. Machism kills. Its eradication requires promoting legal and real equality as a key element of prevention. Why do men kill women? There's a lot of reasons. 90% of men are also murdered by men; 95% of women, too. Every three women in the world have suffered or suffered violence by man. Feminicides are a consequence of the inequality in which we live. Men kill all over the world, and kill for different reasons; we list some: because they have been educated to resolve conflicts with violence; because they feel the owners of their companions, children and daughters; because they have been educated to be kings, or despots, in their homes; because in televisions, games, also in certain films women appear represented as objects, objects of possession; because most men do not know how to handle their emotions well; because they are machoists; because our affective culture is patriarchal; because many men do not endure defeat; because many male heroes kill and are filled with glory; because other men also kill; because, before killing, the men who make it become terrorists in their own houses; because sometimes they have no impunity; because the news about feminds appears on the pages of events, even if they are equally made that happens every day; because they do not want to heal themselves, because nobody learns to cure themselves; because nobody else, because nobody learns to cure themselves. From En Marea, and considering that we all know that education can guarantee equity if we do the necessary transversal co-education and prevention, we believe that the principle of equality translates into education as co-education. Coeducating is educating people from liberty, from equal values, from equal rights, from equal opportunities with respect to freedoms, with respect to rights. And in Marea we believe that co-education must therefore be transversal and at all levels of teaching, in all subjects. We believe, moreover, that the role of women in history, in teaching, in the economy, in culture, in art, in all fields should be acknowledged; that special attention should be paid to equal training, not only for the student, but also for the teacher; to do and to vertebrate external assistance and coordination with other centres, such as health centres, such as social security centres; and that the educational centres themselves are also detectors of violence. We believe in co-education in all areas: teacher training, curriculum proposals and educational resources. We must urgently incorporate the treatment of emotional and sexual relationships, the management of emotions, equality, equality of roles; implement programs with social force, reprovoking machismo every day. It's not enough to create a free configuration material, optional, in 1st and 2nd of ESO, is that it? Training must also be provided by specialized staff. We therefore believe in prevention. We also believe in the peaceful resolution of conflicts in all areas of life: personal, family, social, and the values that sustain it. We believe in the prevention of gender-based violence and as an indisputable and necessary tool at all levels of teaching. And for this, resources are needed. The cuts, estimated at 64.2% from 2009 to 2017, seriously affect all actions — not only in teaching, but at all levels — aimed at protection, promotion, support for women. They mostly prejudice the detection band, and we have already referred to health centers, social services and educational centers. On the other hand, they harm the appropriate protection measures. It's very different if the risk assesses him with all his will a police officer or a civilian guard that the risk is assessed by medical teams, psychologist teams, social educator teams, specialized personnel teams. It also harms the cutting to psychological care, it also harms the cutting to accompaniment and treatment. Resources to provide the comprehensive care network for women in situations of violence are essential. We need to prioritize and sometimes we need to convert temporary shelters possibly into the CRI, an integral recovery center. There's one and with little endowment; there should be many and well-equipped; then things would begin to change. And this social gap, in which I think we're all very sensitized and sensitized, would be substantially blocked; this is a certainty. Why do we refuse the concerted education that segregates by sex? Obviously in Title I, Chapter I, of the German Equality Act, it is said: "Inequities between students and students supported by beliefs, prejudices, traditions or customary practices, directly or indirectly, of a stereotyped distribution, and discriminatory roles between the sexes or an image of domination of one sex over another in any of the spheres of life." Well, that's good. In the previous legislation, in March 2013, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia made use of the law applicable to that law — which was LOE — to invalidate public funding of squares in several concerted schools. In particular, in five of them promoted by the Teaching Center Development company, linked to Opus Dei; and the rest, Aloia, belonging to the conservative Fontenova Association. Both entities, linked to a conservative Catholic religious belief, decided to bring an appeal before the Supreme Court. Five months later, to the Council — which, by the way, had another adviser of Education, Culture and Universitary Order — this answer served to make this government justify and not withdraw its public funds, and issued an order to continue to inject resources into these centres, these centres that clearly go against co-education, absolutely against it. They were helped by three million euros, while teachers were cut off, while students were paid books, while school lunchers had to be paid. All right. Still contrary to the spirit of co-education, of course the law has changed, of course, the law Wert, yes, the LOMCE, if it allows to support centers that segregate by sex. And my question is, however, even if you can, not always what you can be fair, it's convenient, it's best, and we believe that the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has guaranteed freedom of education, of choice of center and creation. Anyone who wants to take their children to a center that segregates by sex to do so, but please not with public money, because it goes against the principles of equality. And on the other hand, we also wanted to denounce a document that incites hatred and that has to do with equality, which is a document that is running for 16,500 centers throughout the state and is also arriving in Galicia. It's an absolutely hate document, especially against the rights of lesbians, LGTBI, and it's an attack that we want to denounce from here, and we'll propose more measures. It's no use for our children to approve everything, it's no use for our children to learn history or learn literature, it's no use. It would be better if they learned science in Greek too. But it's no use then if their attitudes are contempt, ignorance, aggression and harassment to people who are different. And, therefore, to say that these are social evils, and social evils, social diseases have cures, and that the cure is that fortunately we have equal laws in this country, in Galicia we have laws. That's why we asked for two things, two very important things, we think very important things. First, now that the concerts will be renewed from 2017 onwards, since they are renewed every four years, please anyone who wants to take their children to the centers he wants, but not with public money when he segregates by sex. And secondly, therefore, that no public money is renewed with any centre that segregates like this, for this reason.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u149	And secondly, that we really have laws and laws can be improved, but the laws must be complied with and the laws must be developed, and then, please, we ask these laws to be developed, to be enforced in our autonomous community on equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u151	I'm sorry I'm so heavy today, it looks like a monologue on my side. Out of the play, by the Galego Nationalist Block, we have announced our support for the En Marea initiative, both for the request that public funds be withdrawn, as we have traditionally claimed in this House by our political training, for the failure to inject public money into educational centres that secrete the student on the basis of sex, on the basis of the fact that I don't know what she believes we need women and men to have an education adapted to our gender, something that absolutely violates the principle of co-education, which is also collected in the education legislation itself developed by the People's Party. We don't understand how you can fight or claim co-education or work for equality in schools and in classes and at the same time finance with public money centers directly linked to Opus Dei and also segregating the student on the basis of gender. But the Comrade of En Marea said that there is a Vigilant Legislation, they insist on enforcing that legislation. There is something that has also been approved recently, I think it has been made public around the press in September 2016, which is an equality plan or for equality in teaching here in Galicia; it is a plan drawn up by the Education Council, by the hand of the General Secretariat of Equality; it is a very complete plan, prepared by technical staff – – I don't have the slightest doubt – that defines therefore a series of strategies around a series of axes and a set of measures to implement. The truth is it's to remove the hat. Look, don't say we're confronting; we're acknowledging that there's an instrument of truth that's very complete, very interesting, if you ever get to put it into practice. What is the problem with everything that has been approved in recent years, as have plans to prevent discrimination of LGTBI in schools or agreements signed with other social entities to promote the freedom of transsexual persons within schools? What's the matter? Lack of resources, lack of materials, and above all – and most importantly – – that lack of budget. What it cannot be is that we approve and approve measures but do not have economic resources such measures, and the worst of all, from our point of view, is that we try to burden the teacher with responsibility within the framework of his class hours of having to be or have to be them who individually form themselves and who voluntarily or almost altruistic in many cases educate our student, students in our country, in the matter of equality without the necessary training and especially without academic curricula adapted to the incorporation of gender perspective or freedom and non-discrimination for LGTBI people in our country. What we understand is that, in addition to adopting plans such as equality, which – I say – has been announced and made public in September 2016, in addition to approving them, we must try to start implementing them, and for that it is undoubtedly necessary to rethink the educational model that we have in our country, and it is necessary to incorporate the perspective of gender, because it is what brings us here today – the perspective of gender – to all academic branches, to all areas of knowledge and to convert it into a cross-sectional idea that soaks up all levels of education, from the earliest ages, because we often send circulars to the teaching centres so that from now on incorporate that perspective of genre but we do not provide the teacher with the material necessary to carry out these works, to start working with the perspective of genres in the most early ages, between the 3 and 4 years, between the five and 6, and the levels of teaching, and on all levels of elementary, and on all levels of teaching, and on the high-schooling materials, and on all aspects, we will make them happen. It's just, to finish, because there's and lots of material, in addition to disseminated and distributed in the Greek language, because if you've translated in our language those who haven't been directly edited in the Greek language, it's got to be translated by the editorials very much material especially to work with children. But, by the way, I didn't want to forget what I was talking about before: education, school, it's an important socialization agent, but so is the media. We can't work with a gender perspective in the classroom and then the products of the cultural industry that are used in the media, the series, the television programs or even the magic programs that don't target our youth or our adolescence, but that if they're highly consumed by them, they don't work from the same parameters. We need to start working with the media to spread a complete and radically different picture that is currently spreading from women, because they're again highlighting traditional and patriarchal roles, which all we can do is naturalize and normalize behaviors of macho violence. We will support this initiative as presented by the Marea, but – – I say – we need to introduce a deeper and broader debate not only of the need to introduce the gender perspective in school, but we will begin to see together the socialization agents working in our society. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to show my satisfaction for Mr. Fernández Gil's perpetual enlightenment and literacy every time he comes out to talk here about some educational matters, because it turns out that I didn't know that in the September 25 election, measures were voted as specific as if the concerts "yes", if the Language Standardization Act "no", if the decree... No, no, that's what he always says; so, I really appreciate it, I thought there was something different to vote on. [[Applause]] But in any case – – I insist –, I always liked to learn and I really appreciate his teachings, which I will value at the moment. With regard to the initiative, a non-law proposal put forward by the incoming Parliamentary Group at Marea, of course we will support it; we will support it because it is reasonable and fair. I will not do particular fincapé, because it has already been done extensively by the two people who preceded me in their interventions, about the observance of the Law on Equality between Men and Women, so in need of real measures that implement that determinatum that often accompanies all the regulations and particularly in the field of teaching. However, I must also say, because it is fair to say, that on the part of the Education Council, measures have also been taken in recent courses to correct actions and detect as early as possible certain conduct that are absolutely intolerable. So on this aspect – – I insist – –, as has already been said with force and with success, I am not going to make a bigger fincapé. If I'm going to do this on the subject of educational concerts, not so much in the sense of a link between lack of co-education and other types of habits, but in their legal anchorage, within the regulations that we've all, as we say, have given. All of us here – or, if not, at least those we work more directly in the field of education – know that there is a decree that regulates the admission of students to the Autonomous Community of Galicia into centres supported by public funds. Obviously, as Mrs de En Marea has well said, whoever wants to pay for a different educational model, which we could also question if it fits within a framework – – let's say – of modern conception of what must be taught in educational centres, but still, if they want to pay, send their children and children to such centres, they can do so, but, Counsellor, you know as well as I do that you do not hold up according to our planning that these centres that teach students by sex have educational concerts. And it is not supported for such a simple reason that the admission decree itself establishes with absolute clarity, already at the beginning, in its Article 2, that at the beginning, in the admission of students in centres supported by public funds, there will be no discrimination in admission on the basis of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other condition or personal circumstances. Therefore, these centres are obviously discriminated against by sex. And as a result of a logical, elementary application of common sense, they couldn't be supported by public funds, because that subordination requires them to comply with that regulation. That funding from public funds implies that. But you're also fully aware that this was something, at least, insecure. So then they introduced a paraffin that comes to say that the centres supported by public funds that develop the principle of co-education at all educational stages will have preferred funding. How do they develop the principle of co-education, if it is inherent in the education system? How am I going to reward a center that teaches students math and makes it preferred when receiving public funding? It's just that you have to, and co-education too. We cannot enter a decree of an autonomous community such as this, which, moreover, is curiously added to another that then says that school populations are treated in unfavorable economic conditions, which seems – – if yes– – reasonable. Then we'll have a concert if we don't cover with public squares. But, man!, to say that those who develop co-education principles are going to be preferential concert centres, at least, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, rout. And I would spin because you know you don't have any coherence, because besides, there are firm, several judgments of the Supreme Court in matrimony courts giving them the reason for certain autonomous communities – – that I'm not going to quote here, more than nothing for not apologizing the right wing geographic and biological of the hemicycle – – that they have just annulled rulings from higher courts of autonomous communities that in turn nullified orders that took their concepts away, that is, they come to reason. The concepts are well removed when students are separated by sex. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u154	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez Martínez. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u155	Thank you, President. Mr. Álvarez, you have just pointed out here that the Socialist Party understands that it is neither supportive nor legalized to fund gender-differentiated education centres with public funds. So you'll have to explain why where the Socialist Party governs if you support these kind of centres with public funds, or, if not, what you don't really support is your argument. [[Applause]] So, in that sense, firstly, and to the thread of some points reflected in this proposal, I think we should start by pointing out that gender violence is certainly a problem of extreme gravity, against what must be fought from all sides, but one cannot assimilate in any way — and we understand it — gender violence and gender-differentiated education. And, in fact, from a strictly legal perspective, because the truth is that differentiated education is a perfectly adapted educational option to our legal system, because in itself it is not a form of discrimination, nor at the international level is there any prohibition of this educational option. At the international level, we must point out that both the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and the Convention on the Fight against Discrimination in the Field of Education, both adopted by the United Nations, do not impose a mixed education system. It must also be pointed out that both current educational legislation and decisions on differentiated education assess the possibility of working on sex-differentiated education centres. You talk about complying with the legislation, when obviously there is scrupulously complying with the regulations, and in this respect you have to put into effect — which I am pleased that Mrs. Rodil has done so — the first Action Plan for Equality in Galicia's education centres 2016-2020. And in addition, actions such as the implantation of free self-sustainment, gender equality, even though Mrs. Cuña wanted to ridicule this fact in her intervention. The Action Plan for Equality in the Education Centres of Galicia 2016-2020 consists of 28 objectives and 87 measures and is governed by four fundamental principles: of one group, to introduce gender equality as a cross-cutting element and always present in educational activity, to build an equal society using education as a means, to seek the goal of zero violence in classes and in society and, in addition, to educate in the full integration of all people above their emotional or sexual choice. In the educational issue, in addition to including equality in the curricula of all educational stages, in this course 2016-2017, as I said before, a new subject of free self-sustainment: Gender Equality, which at the moment offer twenty-four centers for its students from 1st and 2nd ESO. And in addition, a higher grade training cycle will be implemented to include the gender perspective in vocational training and will be continued with the teacher's training courses, which will increase the content related to equality in education. Even so, within the Welsh School Living Strategy 2015-2020, it includes concrete tools, such as the Project Plan, Educational Innovation, or the Education Protocol to ensure equality, non-discrimination and gender freedom and identity. In the internal sphere, it should be noted that LOMCE incorporated into the wording of Article 84.3 an express reference to this legislation, noting that in no case the choice of gender-differentiated education may involve less favourable treatment for families, pupils and students and corresponding centres and no disadvantage in subscribing concerts with educational administrations or in any other aspect. For these purposes, the centres must explain in their educational project the reasons for the choice of the system, as well as the academic measures they develop to promote equality. It should therefore be noted that the Spanish legal system has never imposed a model of co-education, nor before the entry into force of article 84.3 of Organic Law 2/2006, of 3 May, of education, nor during the vigil, nor now with the new wording given to this precept by LOMCE, thus reaffirming the legal coverage of funding with public funds of the differentiated educational option. But in addition, at present, there has been no doubt about the possibility of holding educational concerts with this kind of center. The evolution that has taken place in this regulatory framework, of course, is also reflected in judgments and judgments. It should be recalled that the Galician High Court itself, following the adoption of LOMCE, dismissed in 2015 an appeal submitted by the IGC against the Order of 9 August 2013 for the approval of the educational concerts. I believe that it must be stated that, from the constitutional perspective too, neither the content and scope of the principle of equality of the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of sex in article 14 nor the constitutional configuration of the right to education in article 27 offer no difficulty for the fit of the educational system of differentiated education, which even reflects the Supreme Court itself in the judgement of June 23, 2014. Thus – and finished – the educational system designed by the Constitution – assigns education to a dual network of teaching centres, private centres and public-funded centres; the latter, in turn, may be of public or private ownership – – concerted private centres –. This system is based on the principles of programming and participation, principles that, duly conjugated, are the ones that guarantee, as well, the balance between the right to education, the freedom of education and the right to choose the center of the offer of free school places. And one cannot forget that such freedom does not really exist if one is not guaranteed the right to choose for all. So we are not going to support this proposal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u156	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u157	Mr. Gil, I didn't ridicule, just considering that we believe in co-education at all levels and at all stages we think that an hour of free configuration with twenty peak centers, when we know that we have many more centers throughout Galicia, it's absolutely insufficient; that's, in 1st and 2nd ESO; it seems pretty ridiculous to me. With regard to the subject of sex segregation, you say there is no prejudice. Of course, when we talk about segregating by sex, especially those people who are already a certain age and we know another system of education, we think this is a regression, which is a reduction in education that takes us back in time. I wasn't in the 19th century, but we could almost get back there. There's no justification for segregating, at least there's no rigorous studies demonstrating that cognitive abilities are different; they're quite similar, depending on the child or the child. If it promotes sexism, if it creates more stereotypes, there is no theory that supports it, it cannot be checked. Much of an improvement in performance has been said. It's not checked. These centers are usually elite centers. It was also about the pressure of the opposite sex. Mrs. Olalla spoke of teaching as socialization as well, we have to live together and together, and segregation is a mistake. It's a mistake because it doesn't give rise to equality, tolerance or suppression of machismo. This is part of our democratic identity. It only makes sense, from my point of view, if you start out that every sex has to have different social functions; then we would be paying attention to the equal opportunity of men and women. And, therefore, segregating by sex is like segregating by race, if it's a teaching with prejudice and it's paying attention to equity. With regard to the law that you have appointed, Wert law, he himself said that he replaced the subject of Education for Citizenship by Civic and Constitutional Education, which is free of controversial issues, and removed from the plan studies or aspects such as homosexuality or the critical view of gender, which is true that I also have here the Gender Identity Protocol, which is very good that I should start walking this year, but we know that in many of the centers they are not getting around or plans for coexistence. Teachers are saturated, not enough with good will, we have wonderful and wonderful teachers in this country, but not enough with good will, resources are needed and effective plans are needed to get going, and programs are needed: self-esteem programs, conflict resolution programs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u159	...equal programmes. They need to implement themselves, because, in fact, they're in theory, but they're not in practice. So, I'd also like to talk about Law 84/3, but really this time is scarce, and I think we can continue to go deep, because it's an absolute priority theme, and what's clear is that discrimination that's most prevalent in the centers, bullying and harassment, are different children, and against this we have to fight with all our forces. I'm so sorry you didn't sign this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u161	...––– it's over––– saying it's true that Law Wert...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña, look at the time, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u163	...it allows, but it's not the fairest.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u164	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the demands that the Government of Greece must make to the central government to increase the number of judges specialized in gender violence in Galicia, as well as the specific and periodic training in the subject in all sectors of justice and the implementation of the personalized judicial accompaniment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u165	An amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u166	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. "The People's Party offers to deal with all measures, as long as they are reasonable and effective." "The Government is already asking for more means to the Ministry of the Interior." "We will support all claims that are necessary." "It is important for women to denounce, since they have all the resources of the Administration at their disposal." "Women who suffer violence must know that they have resources and support from all society." After the last two murders for violence against women, these were statements by members of the Government – – – even prominent members – – to the media. That means we need a pact, a big pact against male violence, and also in Galicia. The initiative we stand for today is a first step, but it's not the only step, nor is it the only step, because criminal law cannot supplement the policy of fighting against violence; nor is it the minutes of silence in the memory of the victims. There are main lines of work, Mr Education Counsellor: education, prevention, increasing women's resources to make them feel safe, but if these lines do not work – – – and the interest that the Education and Culture Counsellor makes it difficult for them to actually work ––, if it is necessary to reach the legal route, because the things we demand on this initiative are essential. Justice has a lot to say in the fight against masculine violence, one of the worst lacres our society has, and that, far from reducing itself, unfortunately — and that means that the main lines of work don't work — it repeats more every day. The fight against male violence requires comprehensive, transversal actions, which already collected the organic law of the year 2004, which the Government of Galicia has discriminated against every year in its budgets. And I'm going to put that seven-headed monster example of what the Voicer was talking about, the former representative of the BNG who went up here. At the time Emilio Pérez Touriño was president of the Galician Union, the equality programme received EUR 60 million in 2009, in 2006 the budget was EUR 14 million and for this year 2017 it is EUR 13 million. Looks like there was a difference. Not only did we create the crisis, but we also had the opportunity to increase budgets for the fight against violence and for equality. Without forgetting the fundamental right to presumption of innocence, ensuring the protection of victims is fundamental. You have to attend them in judicial units, as specifically collected in addition to that law of 2004. Despite the 5.9 % increase in complaints in the first half of 2016, in Galicia there are only two cases of violence: one in Vigo and one in Coruña. Curiously they're also from the year 2007, at that time of the tremendous two-headed monster that presided over a socialist president. Since then there has been no other trial specialized in gender violence. A few days ago we knew that the vice president of the German Government and the president of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia announced five new judicial squares for 2017, but none for the fight against gender-based violence. In Ourense, the specific trial has already been requested since 2008. In Santiago the judge who carries gender violence is saturated because that's what leads also to the instruction of the derailment of Angles; he has a support court but he does not get enough. In Lugo they have offices without separation so they can't match the alleged aggressor and the victim. Ferrol also asks for independent spaces and a service equipped with non-Jewish assistants. And in Pontevedra, which is number 3 -- all of these judgments are mixed -- so he accumulates work matters, a lot of work, and he can't afford it when he needs it. And that's what the Greek judges receive every day 15 complaints for mistreatment against the woman; I repeat: 15 daily complaints. And in the third quarter 1,431 complaints, 42 more than in the second quarter of 2016 and 86 more than in the first half of 2016. In the first nine months of the year, 4,175 complaints, against 3,956 last year. I am not a Member who uses figures — I don't like — but I think that when it comes to these assumptions where women are killed in the hands of macho men, we need to take into account each of the figures, each number, which has to do with this issue. That's why we're presenting this initiative, it's simple, it's about asking the State Government for four questions, and I'm going to let it start with the last three: That the Government of Greece asks the State Government to create new judges of violence against women by 2017 in Galicia. I wish it was like that, but immediately. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If this does not happen, the judicial dependencies will be reformed so as not to happen what is happening in Ferrol, for example, and there are independent spaces for victims and alleged aggressors, too immediately, not to coincide with the dependencies. May he give himself immediately of necessary personnel to these judges. Increasing specific and periodic training in gender-based violence to all sectors of justice in Galicia. And the last one — even if it is our first request — is to increase the number of judges specializing in gender-based violence in Galicia, in the main cities, and to launch a personalized judicial accompaniment to inform the victims about how their judicial journey will evolve. And I want to end precisely this last request — although it is the first in our non-law proposal — because I want to set an example, an example of the necessity of this last question of personalized judicial accompaniment. The example is a woman from the Arousa area, which we called Lola. Lola on her honeymoon received her first beating from her husband. And when he talked to his father and told him what had happened to him, his father said, "What did you think was marriage?" Lola had received a rear beating and in her village they said she had kicked her ass. Lola drank vinegar because she had no money to buy alcohol, because her husband didn't give it to her. And Lola the day that was to lend the statement the first time to the trial -- I'm not inventing myself because it's a real case -- that day he had to stop three times to be able to vomit because he wasn't able to remember the things that happened to him, and it was the first time in his life that he was dealing with that reality. Lola was accompanied by women who lend the Vigo Town Hall, accompaniment, because she was, despite being the area of Arousa, in a foster home, the foster home in Vigo, where there is a voluntary service of women accompanying women victims of macho violence in her periple. In this case, these women — and I can give faith because I was the lawyer who was defending Lola in that case — accompanied her throughout the entire court proceedings. And indeed it was they who went out with her to be able to vomit into the bathroom and come back in. So it is necessary — about 15 years ago — for us to have a service that does not yet exist 15 years later. I hope that they will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. You have the floor by the amending group to Mrs. Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Vilan, I could tell you cases like those of Lola and much more serious than those of Lola; not one, but two and unfortunately three, a hundred, two hundred, very many. The truth is, it's a pity, it's a scratch. But what I don't like is that you get demagogy on this subject. I don't think you should put any government of any color and put the dead or the dead on the table or talk about responsibilities, because we all have an obligation to keep working and to keep making resources available not only to the victims but to women. And in that we all have responsibilities. But you come here today to ask for more specialized judges because there are no judges in Galicia. Look, you talked about the law of 2004; of course, the law of 2004 was about specialized judges, not exclusive judges. You have to say here that it's what you want, if you want specialized or exclusive judges, because it's not the same. In the Coruña and Vigo there are exclusive judges and in the forty-three remaining judicial parties there are specialized judges. So I think it's important to distinguish. Why? Because in order for there to be an exclusive trial, you have to give yourself the workload figure that marks the General Council of the Judiciary, and not the People's Party or the Government of Change. And it is the Joint Commission, formed by the Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, together with the Government of the Council of Galicia, which decides when there is enough work to have that exclusive judgment. And you know that, Mrs. Vilán. So I think I have a demagogy speech here is to say that there are no specialized judges when there are them; it is true that there are not exclusive ones. But you also know that the figure that marks the General Council of the Judiciary of Entry of Affairs so that there is an exclusive trial is 1,800 issues a year. Do you know how many Coruña has? In 2016, 789; Vigo, 1,049, and have been judged exclusively. And specialized judges: Ferrol, ten 179; Santiago, 263; Lugo, 255; Ourense, 295; Pontevedra, 191. The truth is, they're far away from these 1,800 issues a year. So I think, Mrs. Vilán, that if we want to propose things that are realistic things, things that we can achieve, and in that sense and in that sphere we will find them. What you can't come here is to say that the People's Party reduces the departure of budgetary equality and gives the reason to the Galego Nationalist Block lady, when you well know that the budgetary departure of which the Galego Nationalist Block is talking about was that of Vice-Presidentship and Equality; rather the Vice-Presidentship of Mr. Anxo Quintana, which included two governing bodies of equality: the General Secretariat of Equality and the General Directorate of Equality. Today you know that there is only one organ, we delete the other, because that is a cost. Besides, children's schools aren't included, not the whole area of well-being. And I don't think it's good to cheat on us alone. And besides talking about specialized services when you -- the Socialist Party along with the complicity of the Galego Nationalist Block -- today are closing down a specialized service like the Caldelas Bridge Women's Information Center, who come here asking for specialized services when you where you rule are closing them to do an integral service where you can advise both a returned emigrant and a victim of gender violence, and then put the case of Lola, Mrs. Vilán, seriously on this subject, I ask you not to do demagogy with this subject and where you rule, at least, do not suppress what there is. Because you come here to teach us what to do and what to put on, but the truth is, it's amazing that right there they don't. Look, on the subject of proper spaces, you know that works have been done in many courts to prevent the aggressor and the victim from being found. But not only do you have to put appropriate spaces, you know that the judicial authorities also have other measures to avoid it, such as citations at different times and such issues. We are not against such works, but not immediately as you say, because there is a budgetary limitation. That's why we tabled an amendment, and in that amendment we asked that, indeed, where the Joint Committee, which has jurisdiction over this, and the judicial bodies, which are the ones who know most about this, because I think it's not even the Government of the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u170	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u171	...not in this Parliament that we have to decide where to put the judges of Gender Violence, but, as I said before, both the burden of work and the judicial bodies themselves, which are the ones who know perfectly where the needs are, are the ones who have to decide. And then on this issue of infrastructure, of making the necessary reforms, we don't oppose ourselves, but what we ask in our amendment is that it's as soon as possible and not immediately as you ask. And as for specific training...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u173	...—Yes, Mr President, I am done—well, we are asking for it to continue. Because to say it's done as if you're not doing specific training for the judicial officers and the people who participate in justice, I don't think it's fair. I'm done saying that we will support and support all the measures that can bring about progress towards full equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u175	...and, of course, the elimination of male violence. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u176	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego Xosé Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u177	Good morning. Luís better than Joseph. By the Galego Nationalist Block, of course, we will support the Socialist Party's initiative. And we also believe that it is necessary to frame the debate on this issue in a more general debate on the fight against gender violence and against machoism and gender inequality, which is ultimately the cause of violence against women and all forms of discrimination. An inequality and discrimination that has increased or worsened in recent years by policies developed as a result of the so-called "crisis", which especially strikes women, which has caused the increase in inequality and discrimination of women, and also, as mentioned here, the drastic reduction in public spending in this matter. And the BNG doesn't say so, he gave the same UN through his Committee on Women's Discrimination, which says in the 2015 report: "The austerity measures introduced in response to the economic crisis have a serious and disproportionate impact on women." So we are faced with an extremely serious situation, as reality demonstrates, as various studies of different surveys also show. Figures can be cold, but they're dramatic, they're authentically hilarious, and they're talking about 836 women killed by gender-based violence. There are many more women killed between 2003 and 2015 -- in statistics -- 700,000 women abused and only 25% reported. The European Union's figures, according to the 2014 survey, are also absolutely dramatic. There is therefore a need for a comprehensive and comprehensive commitment to combat this very serious problem, to fight against the consequences and, above all, against the causes, which are the relationships of power, the relations of domination in the economic sphere, in the ideological field, in the cultural sphere, which explain the control, control and abuse of men over women. An integral response is needed through a pact, an agreement against the consequences and also against the causes. It is necessary to act in a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, seeking a change of attitude, which eliminates, for example, social passivity, social permissiveness — only 1% of the population, according to polls, considers this issue a serious issue — or impunity, the feeling of impunity that these types of crimes have, this type of crime — only 5% of the aggression against women end up in condemnation. And it is necessary to do so by placing all the necessary means, of course, in the legal sphere, in the legislative field, taking into account international recommendations and treaties, such as the Istanbul Convention, which ratified the State Government in 2014, and which has not yet been fulfilled, for example, in terms of the qualification of all forms of violence against women, not only in the relationship of partners, but also in the whole process, and not only since the time of the complaint. Also, as the Socialist Group calls for, increasing all human, material, economic means in the current gender violence courts, because the staff working in these trials and by Vigo's own trial, for example, lack of means. And also in the increase in the judges of gender violence or in the personalized comprehensive accompaniment, which is another type of action proposed on this initiative of the Socialist Group. And it is also essential to combat such discrimination and inequality through prevention, education and awareness-raising. We have already talked about the importance of education, and not only regular education, but also about education in society as a whole, which affects discrimination, or the role of the media. We have to say and we must regret that in the last cases of macho crimes there have been some means, of course, that they haven't had the best treatment that this kind of news should have. And I'm talking, above all, about the murder of the Catalan doctor Victoria Bertran, because he's a person with a name, he's got a trajectory, and he only had a name and he only had a trajectory for his killer. And I end by asking for a real commitment of consistency, of an integral response from the whole society against Machism, against male violence, considering it a form of terrorism, against the deep and structural causes that support and constitute direct violence, against all forms of domination, discrimination and inequality over women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mr Luís Villares has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u179	Thank you very much. Good morning. These topics of the initiative proposals will be dealt with separately. The first of them, about the creation of more exclusive judges of violence against women. I understand the nuance made by Mrs Prado in relation to the differentiation between judges with competence in the field of violence, which are forty-six throughout Galicia — indeed, all the judicial parties have some body responsible for this competition — and the exclusive ones, who are two at this time, in the Coruña and in Vigo. En Marea's political position favors the exclusive specialization of judicial bodies where there is data indicating the need for a greater dedication to existing bodies. That is, in our opinion, in all those positions where the workload exceeds in a notorious and structural way of 100 percent of the usual workload. Now, a nuance in relation to Mrs Prado's position: the structural overrun of 100 percent of the Council's workload does not automatically guarantee neither that the Council creates these new squares nor that the position of the Joint Commission is in favour of that creation; that is, it is a necessary budget, but not enough for that. So our nuance in relation to this wants to be clear, and we support in all those cases where the structural report of the hundred percent studied in all these cases is notoriously exceeded, to proceed to its creation. As far as this is concerned, one clue: the Concession Rate in Galicia for Women Violence Courts is currently at the rate of 1.30. This means that almost all judges structurally exceed the maximum work load allowed; that is, of the forty-six plus half have figures that exceed 100 percent structurally. We are aware that it is impossible, it would be impossible to give all these judges exclusively at this time, but if we consider those in which the situation is more serious and, of course, would deserve this. It is also possible to make and introduce another variant, and it is that in those cases where with partial exemption is more than 100 percent, the exemption should be increased by the Administration of Justice to devote themselves exclusively to violence, and that will give rise, if so, to the creation of other ruling judges. In line with the above, we must also denounce that the way of measuring the burden of work in the courts of violence in relation to the rest of the rulings of Instruction produces notorious dysfunctions in statistics, which has been unanimously denounced by judicial associations, including Judges for Democracy. And this explains the data offered by Mrs. Prado, too, that those who have been tried exclusively for violence are in the order of three hundred or four hundred, while a normal education judge has 1,800. In normal education trials, there is often the attribution of different numbers to the investigation of the same facts, because, for example, they come through medically and through complaints of attestation, and that gives rise to two dilemmas, which is really a single investigation. Well, this kind of question, which apart from that is frequent in injury offences, is what gives rise to this dysfunction of numbers. That's why it is unanimously requested to modify the working meters of the General Council of the Judiciary. Also another additional question: in cases of gender-based violence, the author is always known. Therefore, the instruction system is also different from the standard Instruction judges. And besides, as a result of the two previous assumptions, the number of diligences is always the same, so the diligences seen in statistics are smaller than the rest of the Instruction judges. That's why I want to draw attention to the need to make statements about the workload. In any case, we believe that the trend towards the creation of solely competitive judges should already take place as the position of the Galician Union, at least with the five cities that do not yet have them. And also a clue pointed out by the judicial associations: in those cases where it was seen that for the current workload modules it wouldn't give for an exclusive specialization, a possible solution is the comarcallization of judges; that is, the attribution above the judicial party, that several judicial parties had a trial that exclusively devoted themselves to that function. Specialization for us exclusively has many benefits: firstly, it allows to make better and more efficient an investor effort to unadapted facilities. The reports here by Mrs Vilan are only a part of what exists, above all, in the courts of the towns and not of the cities of Galicia, where the situation of confrontation, of physical encounter between the victim and the aggressor, is more than usual and generates situations of tension and violence often undesirable verbal. In addition, it would improve the capacity of training, the impact of the training of specialized personnel at its service, and would provide more adequate care for the coordinated patterns of action between the trial and the state's security forces and bodies. We also understand that both the establishment of the new judicial office and the transfer to the Ministry of Public Prosecutor's education, as well as in the future the installation of courts of instance, would provide an adequate response to this. That's why we also urge to take this into consideration. The second of the initiatives is on the reforms necessary for the adequacy of the legal infrastructure. In line with the above, we also argue that it is necessary to comply with these reforms, firstly, because the spaces of waiting and waiting for the victims, the witnesses and the families of the victims often coincide with the space that immediately take up the declaration of aggressors — something that is absolutely unacceptable — and, secondly, for the provision of physical means...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u181	... yes, I'm going to end it—that they imprison the specialized staff immediately to the Violent Court itself; we're talking about the Imega, the social services or the victim care offices. And finally, with regard to the staffing of victim support personnel, we believe that it is really necessary to develop the Victim Care Act 4/2015, and therefore also to project it on the specific care of victims of gender-based violence — and with this end — and there are also no personal means, especially psychosocial teams with specialized care and information and training and treatment in the gender context, to adequately address this. It's a constant denunciation of the defendants as well, and it's a consequence of the conclusions presented by the Meeting of Judges and Judges and Experts on Gender Violence, also in relation to our country, and it's necessary to provide it immediately. For these reasons, therefore, we will support the non-law proposal proposed by the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group, author of the non-legislative proposal to Mrs. Patricia Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u183	Thank you, President. Mrs. Paula Prado, what is demagogic is that after being ruling eight years Galicia continue talking about José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Emilio Pérez Touriño and Andalusia. That's demagogy; as an argument it's demagogy. [[Applause]] I would like to thank the opposition groups for their support. And you come with an amendment, and I'm not going to explain it, because you're a much more commoner Member than I am, who has been in this House for a long time, and I don't have to explain to you what the amendments are made, but they are supposed to be done to express the political position of the parliamentary groups and to try to improve the initiatives proposed by the other groups. In fact, I agree with you that it is not the same as an expert judge as an exclusive judge, but if you wanted to put the word "exclusive" in your amendment, you could do it, and you didn't. So you're not, either, not that you don't want specialized judges, that you don't want exclusive judges either because you're not in your amendment, and it's a replacement amendment. You throw balloons out saying it's the Joint Commission you have to decide which ones are the necessary judges. But it is supposed that the Government of the Autonomous Community will have to say something, too, not only the Joint Committee, mainly because the Joint Committee is not a body elected by citizens as representatives of this House, which we are here to legislate. You don't say anything about the full accompaniment to the victims, you delete that position at point 1; at point 1 of your amendment is not. I'd also tell you that there's a big difference between changing structures immediately and whenever possible. It is true that you are subject to budgetary matters; it is more so: I am sure that the People's Parliamentary Group is subject to the guidelines that the Government marks on you in all the proposals and initiatives you have here, even in this amendment to our non-legislative proposal. But between "immediate" and "when possible" there's something in the middle that you can shape in your amendment and you haven't done it either. And it is important, Mrs. Paula Prado, that you read the proposals of the initiatives, because in our initiative, when at the last point we talk about training, it says that it increases, not that it is created ex novo, but that training is increased. And you recried us that it was as if we said there was no training. No, if you grow up, there's already something before, if you don't, you'd be born anyway. It is therefore important to read the initiatives. A couple of years ago in the Equality Commission, where I think you were, a representative of the General Council of Spanish Law came to a commission here, to this specific commission, to speak of the ten years of vigil of the law of 2004.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u184	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u185	Yes, President, I ask you for a minute, just like the rest of the groups had, and I didn't waste my first part of the time, I ask you to leave me a minute more. And, if possible, please let Mrs. Paula Prado shut up a bit, because I did not noise when she intervened in her exhibition. This lawyer who came on behalf of the General Council of Spanish Law demanded at that time, in 2014, and came to this House to say so, that it was necessary not only to accompany but also to provide prior legal assistance, which was necessary to continue training. He criticized his own collective, the lawyers, the judges, for it is not only the judges of violence, but the judges of Guard who attend the victims and the detainees when they arrive, the doctors of the Imelga, the psychosocial teams, who are saturated because they are mainly devoted to family issues, such as that of Santiago, or that of Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u187	...–Finished, President–. He said that it is expressly necessary here to judge exclusive violence with special competences, because not only the workload of these judges is measured quantitatively but also qualitatively, by the kind of questions. So, Mrs. Paula Prado, I really could come up with a deal with you if you include "exclusive", if you include the accompaniment and give me a date for those reforms and those judgments that you ask me to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u188	Finish, please. Thank you. I understand you're going to try to get into a transaction, right? Well, it was to point him here. [[Murmurs.]] After the debate on this initiative, we have suspended the meeting for sixteen and thirty minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u189	We started the session. We follow the non-legislative proposals, the fifth, the G.P. The tide. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u190	This initiative was published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia on December 7. This motion for a non-legislative amendment to the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia was tabled on the initiative of Mrs. Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u191	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. David Rodríguez Estévez, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u192	Thank you, Vice President. Good afternoon. When we talk about gender-based violence in rural areas, we're not talking about a different kind of gender-based violence, it's still the same violence as the result of a markedly macho society and a patriarchal system. But gender-based violence in rural areas has different characteristics than it does in urban surroundings. Violence against women is not only limited to physical assaults or, in the worst case, to the death of victims. Women also suffer from other types of violence, such as lack of specialized services, lower wages than men and, if not, lack of economic resources, harassment, psychological abuse, discrimination in all fields, rape, etc. This structural violence is more acute in the case of women living in the rural environment. Male violence in rural areas has some specific factors and difficulties to identify whether we want to design effective policies in the fight against violence: geographic dispersion, isolation, depopulation, population ageing, lack of infrastructure and means of transport and the suppression of public services. These elements aggravate the vulnerability of women in the rural environment. Even so, cuts in public services cause rural people to lose the few means they counted on for equality and against male violence. The lack of implementation of equality policies and specialized resources to combat violence against men from such areas as education, the media, health, security forces, the municipalities, the administrations of justice are the human and material means necessary to ensure the actual exit of women from that situation of violence. It must be ensured, from administrations, that women should be given appropriate specialized care in the rural environment, to avoid such terrible errors as those that led in 2015 to the murder of María Isabel Fuertes — the neighbour of the village of Pazos, in Verín, in Ourense province — a case where the protection protocol was not activated, or in 2016 the murder of Ana Gómez — the neighbor of Erbón, in Becerreá — who requested, in the days prior to his murder, counseling to leave his home. [[Lugo]] Another factor is the isolation of women in rural areas. This isolation is especially dramatic in women who only interact with their own aggressor. It's the day-to-day day of small nuclei of population, where everyone knows and where the aggressors participate in social life and public space, while the victims are in many cases isolated from private space. This greatly makes it difficult for them to get out of a situation of violence. Data shows the lack of involvement of different administrations in the fight against male violence. A good example is the data from the 2015 General Council of the Judiciary, where it is noted that the judges of Cangas do Morrazo, Lalín, Cambados and Becerreá were the only ones in Galicia where 100 percent of the causes of gender violence were suspended; these judges followed Betanzos, with almost 96% of the causes. All of them tried in the countryside. In view of these factors and difficulties, it is necessary to implement comprehensive policies to put an end to macho models in affective, economic, social, etc. relationships, which result in the end of the lacrime that is macho violence: less information, more pressure and more fear when reporting, difficulty in ensuring that judicial measures — such as the removal order — are respected and worse access to the resources available to them. Different studies agree that, although it is impossible to know whether the permanence of ill-treatment is greater or less in rural areas, addressing and cutting these situations is harder away from cities. There is greater pressure on women to conceal the mistreatment in which they live, being a much more closed medium, since relationships with neighbours are more intense, and feel that making them public would affect their own surroundings. On the contrary, the batterers feel less questioned by their surroundings, because they believe that no one will interfere in what happens inside their own house. Investments are needed to improve access to resources and to improve equality policies. The fear of denouncing in rural areas is greater; there is a traditional culture with an accused sexism, with an aged population and with difficulties of mobility for women. There is no information and training on gender, there is no action to be taken to prevent victims — especially in protection orders — which results in women being deprotected and increasing the risk of aggression. From En Marea we propose a series of actions that must be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas: to strengthen and provide training courses on issues related to empowerment and to implement awareness-raising and awareness-raising campaigns specifically aimed at rural women; to put in place sufficient means and resources to improve the care of women victims of male violence in rural areas and to avoid isolation situations; to increase the number of information centres to women, so that the goal of providing at least one in each municipality of Galicia can be achieved to meet the needs of counseling and support for women suffering from male violence in rural areas. There are currently 81 CISGs throughout the country: 29 in Coruña, 11 in Lugo, 14 in Ourense and 27 in Pontevedra; clearly insufficient and insufficient resources to meet the demands and needs of information, legal and psychological attention and counseling of women victims of male violence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. As an amending group, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group has the floor of Mrs. Paula Prado del Río.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Actually, Mr. Rodríguez, I was surprised that it was you who defended this initiative because when I came from the rural world, I had to read the explanatory statement several times because it didn't give credit to what I was reading. So, as a previous question — if I may — before talking about the elimination of stereotypes in the field of equality, I will talk about the elimination of stereotypes in relation to rural areas and, in particular, of women living in rural areas. I don't understand, Your Honor, the reason you explain in your explanatory statement that having as a farmer or a banker is supposed to sink into the payroll or equal rights gap. It's more: the concept that you have as a peasant woman speaks of economic dependence, when you don't have to be directly related. Do you think that a woman who works, for example, with her partner in a small business in a big city or a woman who works with her partner in a professional office in a big city? Do you think there are no cases of economic violence there? Well, I'll say yes. Male violence, unfortunately, does not understand territory, social classes, economic class. They also talk about isolation in rural areas. Well, I'm just isolated because they don't have access to the Internet, which is also true that there are some rural areas that don't have access to the Internet. But a woman who suffers from gender violence doesn't have a better position to live in a twenty-storey building with four floors per plant. No, because gender violence is silent, and it looks like it's in a rural village that's in the largest building in the largest city you can imagine in Galicia. Therefore, the important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to have access to resources. And not by living in a city can we deduce that access is great, not necessarily. And I'm telling you because I have some experience in caring for women, especially in rural areas, and the resources in rural areas are accessible to these women. I'm telling you because it's so, it's true, it's absolutely true. What we can say -- and I agree -- is that this is an educational issue, so measures have to be for society in general, regardless of where they live. Besides, the women who live in rural areas move; you know, they don't live close to the territory. Your image in the countryside I'm sorry to tell you that you're very distorted, maybe you should live more to understand it better. And that's why I'm telling you, I'm surprised that it's you, precisely you, who defends this initiative and tells you what it says about rural women. Because you, until recently, were mayor of a small rural Galician town, and I'm surprised you say these things about your neighbors, I don't say about your neighbors anymore, but about your neighbours. This is a problem of society, of women and men. We can also talk about older women, foreign women, women with disabilities, women with addictions... Of course, there are different types of performances for different groups. But what we have to do is act together to improve equality and to try to eradicate the masculine violence, but not because they are rural women or urban women. We support the first two points of your initiative, Mr. Rodríguez, because they are on the line that the Galician Union is working on, and we agree that further training and empowerment courses for rural women must be undertaken and continue to provide means and resources to improve women's attention. We do not agree with the closure of information resources and special care for women. We do not agree that the Government of the Socialist Party and the Galician Nationalist Block closed the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. We've been with a full monograph of gender equality and violence all day, and here no voicer of these seats, of the three political formations, made no single criticism of the closure of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. They talked about cuts, they talked about suppressing resources, but not a single criticism of the closure of Ponte Caldelas's CISG. Honestly, your speech is absolutely incredible, not saying it's nothing credible. All they care about is tearing apart the People's Party's Government. Do you agree that I close the CIM at Ponte Caldelas? Do you agree that one of the great achievements we have made in equality was to acquire specialized services for women? This morning there was a voicer who asked for specialized services. And you support the closure of a specialized service to speak of an integral service, where you can attend both a returned emigrant and a gentleman who passes an excessive bill of light like a victim of gender violence. A gentleman who doesn't know if he has specialized training in front of two professionals who have been working with women victims of gender-based violence for ten years, with rural women, ladies and gentlemen, from Galician rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u196	That doesn't matter to you. Well, yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Since neither the Bloc nor the Socialist Party presented an amendment in point 3, because point 3 says, "Opening a CISG in every municipality of Galicia," I suppose the amendment would have to say "...except at Ponte Caldelas". I suppose they'll ask for a point vote, and at least they'll abstain on point 3 or vote against it. We are going to be consistent with the speech, and just as we say that services have to be comarcalized and as we believe that the 81 CIMs serve the whole community — because they serve more municipalities than where they are installed —
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u197	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u198	...we also wait and wait for their position on the elimination of the specialized service in rural Galician, and specifically the CIM of Ponte Caldelas...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u199	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u200	...because, if not, or Mrs. Pontón doesn't send anything into the Block, or she's an accomplice to the closure of that CISG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u201	Thank you very much. By the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs. Olalla Rodil Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u202	How nice that little candy came to you, huh, Mrs. Paula Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u203	No, no, it's not a laugh, but let me......let me rest assured that we have time. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived]] If you want to have coffee later and talk about the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. Let me first respond to the proposed group and, in any case, at the end of my speech I will refer to that which was referred here to by the Companion of the People's Party, which, surprisingly, if we have a vision, we are not always going to disagree. We had an assessment of the explanatory statement of this initiative that walks a little bit in the same direction, even with nuances. It was also interesting for us to open this intervention by making a general consideration of that statement in the statement of reasons, because having a profession in agriculture, being a farmer or a farmer — as Mrs. Paula Prado said — does not mean a worsening of the masculine violence — that is a huge prejudice — and we understand or want to think that this was not the intention that was intended to be reflected on the pages of the initiative. Male violence — Mrs. Paula Prado said — does not understand social classes, does not understand ideologies, does not understand races. But if there is an intersection -- if I may use the concept of Kimberlé Crenshaw -- between gender and geography; then there is that intersection, which in this case is what forces me to unfold, develop or introduce a specific perspective to shorten masquerading violence in rural spaces. As if it were collected on its own initiative, as pointed out in it, in rural spaces what is developed is a different model of social relationship. And above all -- that's what we understand -- the most important thing about this: the lack of services within the framework of a geographically dispersed population is what forces us most to adopt specific strategies. In this sense, we support the initiative. If I'd like to make, if possible, an amendment in your voice to this question. We agree that we must improve and expand gender training to all the staff working in the public administration, specifically those working in the local administration, because they are also the closest to neighbouring and, specifically, to women. With regard to the amendment in voice that you propose, when you talk about improving and expanding connections to break with that isolation, we believe it is necessary to pretend, to put expressly, that what is needed is to improve and expand the collective transport connections of the rural population nucleuses with the comarcas and also cities to avoid this isolation situation. The question of resources and measures is good, but we have to talk about what is the specific issue we have on the table and what is the isolation of these local populations. Although I disagree a little about this concept of isolation, because within rural communities what is developed is a model of relationships -- we said it -- completely different, but it does generate a very strong community. I'm more isolated living in Place than in the Piquin River; I don't know the people with whom I share my building block, but I do know not only the people who live with me in the village but almost the whole town. With regard to the information center for women, I told you at first, Mrs. Paula Prado, that you are delighted with that little candy because it is very good that I point — and I share with you — that it is absolutely difficult to understand that a information center for women has been closed. But it's also difficult to keep these information centres for women with funding through ERDF fund grants. One of the issues that workers always demand from these women's information centres — and we know all the political forces that we represent in this House — is stability in budgets and not to have to justify through a grant, and through specific projects, the maintenance of those lines. And I'm telling you that you were delighted with your candy, because you closed the offices of Equality and Wellness and here we didn't put your head in the picket for doing that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I have already said that the amendment is accepted — as it is said — to improve and expand collective transport, we agree. And we agreed — well, this is a crossword puzzle — also in the need to expand and comarcalyize. We agree that it is best to manage information centres for women through comarcial services. I would have pretended at the particular attention you must have for this House the Mountain of Lugo. If you go to the General Secretariat of Equality page and click on the map of women's information centres, the Lugo Mountain is deserted from Ribadeo to Quiroga. We need information centers for women. It was about the case of Ana Gómez, who had to go to the Casa da Muller de Lugo because there are no offices or information centres for women nearby, beyond the social workers working in the Town Hall of Becerreá, which, as is the case in many other municipalities — you know — of the Mountain of Lugo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u205	...or even from Ourense, we share among social workers councils. But, I say, if you accept this amendment in your voice with regard to transport, well. However, we will support this measure and also seek information on the closure of the CIM of Ponte Caldelas. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodil. You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia María Luisa Pierres López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u207	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Party will, of course, support this proposal which today is put forward by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, which, on previous occasions, we have also put forward in similar terms before this House. Perhaps today it is the fact that in this House they play well in the committees well on many subjects, many social problems, many complaints and needs of the Greeks and the Greeks, and it is true that many of them are treated here, rejected or supported, but resolved. The issue that we are now dealing with, gender-based violence, unfortunately has the sad merit of being one of the most treated and recurrent in this House. This is a sign of the difficulty of eradicating an evil that seems to go from the hand of our cultural and educational existence. Therefore, any sensible attempt to stop him will always be well received by the Socialist Party, especially sensitive to this problem. The masculine violence, especially that of gender, is a hard issue to cut -- we know it -- but it's the government's job to put everything on its side to help brake it and lower its incidence rate. In our area, this has already been commented on here in the previous exhibition. It's just rural the environment where women have greater deprotection in situations of gender violence. Because here we're not talking about the fact that there is a greater incidence of this problem in that area but about the greater vulnerability of potential victims and, therefore, a greater need for measures, resources and assistance. The invisibility of women in rural areas is double: on the one hand, by being women and, on the other hand, by being rural. The working conditions of these women are probably one of the hardest in our community. They are workers who bring forty-five hours a week on farm farms silently do so. Out of every ten women, only three people pay for Social Security, which is the same thing: seven of them will not have a pension in the future, seven of them do not exist, seven of them seem no matter to anyone. That this is happening in Galicia is particularly serious considering that 83% of our territory is rural. And if these women aren't visible to work, they're still less visible to the problem of gender-based violence. Dispersion in the territory isolates them and, on the other hand, the most nuclear life-form, both familiar and neighbourly, faeces highly vulnerable and dependent. Social pressure to shut down and invisibility problems is therefore much greater. There are many women who are highly influenced by these closed contours, by this economic dependence, finding serious difficulties to report. Today, our community has 313 municipalities, and only 81 of them have a women's information center. It is detected that there are many nuclei of population and municipalities that are still about 20 kilometers away from one of these centers. And it is shown, moreover, that in rural women move with many more difficulties, and rarely alone, so increasing the number of CIMs seems absolutely necessary. Moreover, when it is observed how the number of queries grows sharply in the whole of these centers in Galicia, which speaks of their role as reference centers for the Greeks. And those who say access to one of these information centers say access to communication tools like those that facilitate the Internet. The comrade Losada said this morning: there are many areas of the Galician geography that lack mobile networks and, more importantly, Internet connection. And in those areas where it exists, rural women are the most difficult users to make use of them. Empowering training courses in their management, facilitating signal availability in places still without service would help them access information, aid networks, boosting their empowerment and also saving their geographic isolation. And even more: a woman who denounces in rural areas has to face another consequence of that decision, which if well in urban areas is serious, in rural areas is empowered by the impossibility of continuing to work, losing her family, her livelihood, the village, the social relationships and the life they know. And on the subject of Ponte Caldelas, Mrs. Prado, tell you that the service to women in the municipality of Ponte Caldelas will be guaranteed. The CISM temporarily locks itself, precisely for the cuts, for the inability to sustain the service as such. But the legal and psychological service will be given to all women who need it. [[Murmurs.]] The service will be given to all women who need it agreeing with other nearby municipalities. [[Murmurs.]] Precisely because of the difficulty in maintaining this service. [[Murmurs.]] And I solve the problem of work... the CIM service will be reintroduced, which is the interest of the Socialist Party. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u208	Please let the person who has the word speak.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u209	For all this, and to the knowledge that much more can and should be done to support this clear situation of vulnerability of rural women, the Socialist Party supports this proposal in the hope that we will gradually go together among all initiatives so that the incidence of this serious problem will be reduced in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u210	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pierres. Mr. Rodríguez Estévez has the floor for the parliamentary group which is the author of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u211	Well, the policy of cuts that is being practised in the Galician Union has been involved in the dismantling of many public services that have been provided in rural areas, and above all in the municipalities — in my county at least that was so. So also the women who live in rural areas. Having a profession of agriculture or livestock, in addition, is supposed to sink, even further, into the crack of labour inequality and rights, which has its logical impact on the worsening of violence. The economic dependence of peasant women does generate another form of macho violence, which is economic. Of women who are part of agricultural cooperatives, 49% are partners, only 12% are in the board of directors, and only 3% are presidents; this is not normal. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if it's masculine or economic violence, but it's violence and there's no equality. Since 2011, the Act of shared ownership and of gainful holdings, Mrs. Prado, of only fourteen farms passed the shared ownership. That's violence, that's not violence, that's not equality. [[Murmurs.]] There is a need to promote equality policies, to promote equality. 72% of the headlines are men and only 28% are women. You're a good rural acquaintance because tell me, in addition, that you've devoted yourself to it. When a woman denounces in the city of Compostela, how long does it take for a security body to arrive at that house? Okay. [[Murmurs.]] A woman who denounces in the Town Hall of Manzaneda, how long does it take a patrol from Montederramo—because they also suppressed a patrol in both districts—to arrive in Manzaneda? An hour and a half. In a city it doesn't take an hour and a half to get there. Then that's another cut you've applied. The protocol of action in the Town Hall of Manzaneda we have it. We had to cost it ourselves, with no economic resources and no technical resources. He was taken by the Town Hall. The CIS workers complain about the lack of economic resources, although it is the title of the municipalities. But why are they funded? By the Galician Union, no less. And you come down that subsidy and the CIS can't provide the services as you should. [[Murmurs.]] Look, do you know the only one who's saving you? What is covering their backs, thanks to the great work they do, are the associations of rural women that exist all over the country, which, almost in an unselfish way and having to put the money forward for their workers, do the work that you are unable to do. We, for our part, accepted the addition of the Galician Nationalist Block and also accepted the vote on points, as you said. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodríguez. Then we move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made by the Central Government in relation to the activity of the Elnosa chlorine production plant in Lourizán, Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u213	The non-law proposal was published in the Official Gazette of Parliament on December 7. This motion for a non-law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Ms. Patricia Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u214	Mr. Luís Bará has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon. I'll begin my speech with a Greek politician's appointment: "It's not possible to keep On in the creek. We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite." I don't know if you're guessing who this date is from May 2009, it's from Alberto Núñez Feijóo. He met with Ence soon to study his relocation in Pontevedra, May 21, 2009. "'We're not going to say one thing and do the opposite',' sentenced the head of the autonomous executive in the press round after the board of assembly that met in the city of Pontevedra exceptionally and for the first time in the history of the German Autonomy; it's the news published in the local newspaper. We see what Mr Feijóo's word is worth, the President's word is useless. Four years later, in October 2013, the Cunta de Galicia announced the signing of an agreement with the owner company of Elnosa, with the Portuguese company CUF. An agreement that has three paragraphs: firstly, the cessation of activity unwarrantedly in the Pontevedra River at the end of 2016 — I remind you of the date we are on —; the undertaking's commitment not to request an extension to the concession, which expires in 2018; and thirdly, commitment by the company to present two alternative locations for Elnosa, one of them in the Pontevedra area of influence. We see that not only is the word no good, neither are the agreements written, like this one signed between the Environmental Council and the company owned by Elnosa. In 2013 they approve an integrated environmental authorisation, which provides for the start date of the cessation of the activity on 31 December 2016, i.e. within five days. And this integrated environmental authorisation is renewed until December 2017 in September 2016. And we're here at the end of the year, but last month, in November on November 24th, 2016, the Galician board, through its press committee, publishes a communiqué informing us -- we didn't know anything about it -- that he was in negotiations with Elnosa to facilitate his stay in Lourizán beyond 2017. A negotiation, by the way, in which the Vice-President of the Union participated, also the Economic and Industry Councillor and the Environment Adviser, that is, a negotiation of the highest level. And they informed us that it is planned to make an important investment in the manufacture of alkaline chlorine in the current placement, i.e. to perpetuate — as they have already done with Ence — this harmful and dangerous company near the city of Pontevedra. And my attention is drawn to the fact that the Galician Board acts as a spokesperson for the company, that is, it is publicly transmitting the company's intentions to remain in that location against all criteria from a logical, environmental and legal point of view. Of course, without communicating anything to the Council of Pontevedra — practical as well as usual — about it. And in a very clear exercise of lack of transparency and obscurantism, because we have never been aware of these negotiations at any time — they inform themselves at a later date — or of the agreements they have made in this regard. So there's a deal with the company against previous agreements. You say some talk and others do; you do but do the opposite of what they say, the opposite of what they say. Because it has to be said that in this case they are contravening urban land management standards, such as the Land Management Guidelines or the Coastal Management Plan, approved by you, which classify the lands where the factory is based as "area of improved landscape." In particular, the additional third provision of the POL provides for environmental and landscape recovery and regeneration from 2018 onwards. I don't know what you're going to do with the POL, if it's good for something, if you do it on fabric paper, if you write it on fabric paper. But the reality is that it's wet paper and it's not worth anything. I don't know what the laws are for; the words are worthless; the laws are no good either. What they are -- we see it, it's more than obvious -- is from the Government of the Union preparing the ground for the expansion of Elnosa's concession beyond 2018, which is another favourable treatment exactly like what they did with the extension of the grant to Ence by applying the reform of the Law of Back; delivering for free — that's what they plan to do — land of public domain sea-terrestrial, exactly over twelve thousand square metres, to a private company for doing private business. I mean, they plan on applying the same thing they did with Ence with the turning doors. Yes, from that board of directors of what is part of Isabel Tocino or Carlos del Alamo; it seems that you have to be responsible for the environment to be part of the board of directors of this company. It is also a decision that reveals pollution, which is not the worst pollution of the Pontevedra River, that of the border or that of the Greek mountains ahead, but the contamination of the State sewer network. But, well, that's a decision that is still the subject of a debate, a campaign, and of course we'll see the resolution of the courts of justice, both state and international. In the case of Elnosa, we don't know how you plan to solve the situation of irregularity or urban illegality in which you are awaiting the approval of a PERI. We do not know whether they intend to border municipal competences by approving a sectoral project of supra-municipal impact as they did in the case of Ence. In any case, you're looking for a legal solution to the permanence, let's say no longer for the Land Management Guidelines or the Coastal Management Plan, but for the need for a PERI or a sectoral project of municipal incidence. So we find it appropriate to bring here a number of questions, for example: What agreements did you actually make with the company? Will they approve a sectoral project of supramunicipal incidence to skip the powers of the Council and to skip the majority will, for example, of the Pleno of the Pontevedra Corporation with 17 of 25 concellers who clearly manifested their position contrary to that location, both for Ence and for Elnosa? Or we also ask them if they plan to extend the concession period by applying the Law of Back, that Law of Back of the Turning Doors. I think they just need to introduce a new legal standard, let's say "the right of urban perennial," to promote particular interests against public interests. That's the last thing they need! I want to remember here -- if you don't know -- that Elnosa has an activity and a location that doesn't allow you to follow the location it is -- it's an activity classified as harmful and dangerous, a location prohibited by law for this type of activity by proximity to the nucleus of population. It's a real time bomb. It's a threat to the surrounding population, where more than one hundred and twenty thousand people live. That's why we bring here a concrete proposal, for which we ask for your vote: First, begin the proceedings for the cessation of Elnosa's activity in Lourizán, complying with the applicable legal regulations, including the Land Management Guidelines and the Coastal Management Plan. Secondly, to dismiss the extension of the concession of the public domain lands currently occupied and to report negatively on this in case of transit. And thirdly, go to the Ministry of the Environment to start the process of recovery for public use of land — twelve thousand square metres — which occupies the Elnosa factory in Lourizán. With regard to the addition proposals made by the PSOE, we agree on the first two. The first refers to compliance with zero-green regulation for contaminants such as mercury. And secondly, strictly apply the environmental criteria for reporting in the event of an extension of the concession. Third, we understand that it already matches the text of the BNG proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia to Mrs. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Elnosa is in Lourizán, as the BNG spokesman said, since 1966, at the end of the 1960s, which was when the concession was granted. It's on the left bank, pasted to the lands where Ence is. There's a concession of 12,587 square meters -- that was an area of marsh, it's still sitting somewhere, little enough -- and there's a sea bank facing very important. In 2011, what was at that time the Environmental, Territorial and Infrastructure Adviser of the People's Party — who is now a concelerator in the Town Hall of Santiago — said that the deadline for Elnosa was January 7, 2014, and extended the concession through the renewal of integrated environmental authorisation. The Elnossa Company Committee itself then recognized that it was obliged to make a technological change in the chlorine production system because it used, and continues to use mercury, which is banned by the European Union, because it is highly polluting. Besides, the company committee itself recognized the need for a change in location of its facilities. The factory workers themselves recognized that there are better techniques available to electrochemical companies. In particular, I don't know the question — it's a technical question that I don't know for my profession well — but what they've explained to me was to change the mercury usage system by using a new system through membrane, which would no longer use this tremendously polluting element. And so, Elnosa needs -- at that time it was said, today too -- the change in her technology. At the end of May 2016, Spain signed documents that depend on the European Union, called BREF — reference documents on available technical improvements — which expressly refer to these types of companies, electrochemical companies, and which provide that all European companies will have four years to adapt to these technical improvements. And according to these documents, in principle, environmental authorisations would no longer be temporary, they would automatically be renewed whenever certain environmental parameters were met. And here's the question: even the Territorial Environment and Planning Council itself said in the past legislation that Elnosa did not have the right technology environmentally, and that precisely because these BREF documents could not be applied to him, that at that time they were still pending to be signed by the Spanish State, and that these regulatory changes did not introduce substantial changes to Elnosa. I don't remember whether the advisor was the current advisor or the previous one, but that's what was said since the Environmental Council. There's a basic principle that is zero green for contaminants like mercury for its highly contaminant value. The current owner of Elnosa, who is CUF Chimigal, at that time proposed the transfer of the factory to another place, the construction of a new plant with a new technology. But now it turns out that Elnosa does not want to leave Lourizán, she wants to continue in the same place, and in fact filed a petition with the High Court of Justice of Galicia to be able to stay beyond the next date — which they told us from the Environmental Council that it was the last end of Elnosa — which was December 31, 2016. At that time, the Council said it was under consideration to give a moratorium, integrated environmental authorization, but in order for Elnosa to dismantle her plant in Lourizán and launch a new plant. But the truth is that the German Government, through the back door, as the BNG spokesman said, recently issued a resolution extending the deadline until December 11, 2017, that is, next year. And taking into account the obligation to change technology which has not yet been established, the essential principle of the European Union of zero-greenness with regard to the use of pollutants such as mercury for electrochemicals — which matches exactly what Elnosa does — we have tabled this amendment, which calls on the Government of Galicia to comply with this principle of the European Union of zero-green for contaminants such as mercury; to strictly apply the legal environmental criteria for reporting on enlargement, if so, of the granting of the public domain land Elnosa currently occupies; and, literally copying what sets out the last point of the non-law proposal of the BNG, to address itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u219	...—now finished, President—to the Ministry of the Environment of the Government of the State to recover for public use the land that has occupied Elnosa in Lourizán since the end of the 1960s and to return to a marsh as we had at that time. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilan. For the Group of Parliament of En Marea, Mr. Marcos Cal Ogango has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u221	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. From the Parliamentary Group of En Marea we are going to vote for this initiative because we defend the recovery of the Pontevedra River and we are in the defence of the rule of law, where compliance with judicial judgments is bound to be complied with by the institutions. Elnosa's intended extension to the Pontevedra River in maritime-terrestrial public space is another episode beyond the urban and social environmental attack in the Pontevedra River and its surroundings. But it's also another example that the People's Party does not comply with legality, which is evidenced by the various acts they are doing in the Pontevedra River, which must burst the illegalometer of illegalities per square metre of any country with serious and rigorous institutions, and which discredits it also with respect to compliance with the legality and the defence of the rule of law. And to the facts I refer: Elnosa, Judgment of the National Court dated 29 January 2014, ratified by the Supreme Court, which condemns the General Administration of the State to the initiation of the expiry of the concession and the adoption of all measures legally envisaged for the paralysis of the activities and suspension of the use and exploitation of installations which do not contain administrative concessions and other legally enforceable authorizations. We don't know if Amaya Echevarría Moreno, one of Elnosa's top managers, took advantage of these Christmas days to discuss this with his sister, the current Deputy Director-General for Environmental Coordination in Galicia. In the same situation, with firm judicial judgments, and in the same terms, the infamy had been consumed recently with the extension of Ence by the Government in function of the People's Party in the State, celebrated by Mr Feijóo and the Government of the United States. In this case, we understand that the management by the company Ence would take over Isabel Tocino and Carlos del Alamo, their comrades from the spin doors. The court rulings here have also moved on to a second plan, business is business. Other: Wastewater Debugger Station (EDAR) of the Praceres. On April 19, 2013, the National Audience sat in a sentence that "the debugger station and the collector built on its day by the Board lacks the concession of public maritime-terrestrial domino." The National Court also condemned the State to "initiate the expiry of the concession and to provide legal measures for the cessation of activities and suspension of the use of the operation of the facilities". This judgment was subsequently ratified by the Supreme Court. More: harbour fillings carried out by the Port Authority of Marín-Pontevedra, in an extension of more than 300 thousand square meters won at sea, were declared illegal by the Supreme Court in a firm judgment of 2009, which condemns the Junta de Galicia, the Deputy of Pontevedra and the Harbour Authority to the restoration of the port area to the state which it had before the adoption of the special plans cancelled. Far from complying with the provisions of the Supreme Court's judgment, it has continued to announce the invitation to tender for works of improvement of the locks in maritime access in the affected area. In the Pontevedra creek you must have some kind of amnesty law, which are a lot of these things, in this case to protect friendly companies. Compliance with the law depends on the business you have in your hands. They must follow the example of the Plenty of Pontevedra, and I don't mean that they name the Feijóo ungracious person; I won't ask them so much, but they defend the rule of law. A year ago the Pleno de Pontevedra, with an initiative presented by En Marea Pontevedra, with the support of the Socialist Party and the BNG, approved to enforce the judicial judgments affecting Elnosa, Ence and the harbour fillings, in an exercise of responsibility and coherence with the rule of law, where compliance with judgments by the institutions is bound to be complied with. Look, Elnosa is one more part of the conflict we have suffered in Pontevedra with the recovery of the river, and its continuity is another unacceptable decision, both as a brake for the recovery of the river and its environment as well as the way it is intended to take forward. Elnosa is a contaminant and dangerous company that stores large amounts of chlorine and poses a serious risk to the neighborhood of the region, which signed with the Galician Union an agreement that set 2017 as a final date of stay in Lourizán, and that agreement is already wet paper. We know well — as the other speakers have already said — that the promises of the People's Party are worthless. You know that Elnosa has an expiration date in Lourizán. And as long as the expiry of the concession file in public domain is not solved, it cannot be decided on its continuity in that placement. And they also know that Elnosa is a dangerous factory for the accumulation of huge volumes of chlorine, a situation that will not change yet in the hypothetical case that they have changed the technology of manufacture of chlorine alone. And this should lead the administrations to prevent permanence in the river and in other areas where urban agglomerations exist. When decisions are made according to private interests rather than thinking about the common good, reason and law go to a background. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Cal Ogong. The People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia has the floor to Mrs. Guadalupe Murillo Solis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u223	Good afternoon, gentlemen. He's addressed to all of you to present our vision on a very important topic related to Pontevedra's laugh and on which we must all maintain a position consistent with the current situation and to opt for the best of decisions. On behalf of my group, the People's Group, I want to defend first of all the great work of the private company, which is a job generator in this country. As some of you know, I'm employed by one of those private companies, and I'm very proud of that. From this rostrum, I'm going to put in value today the word "private" -- that word that I've heard so many times in this House dealing with disparagingly, so many times. And I think it's time we started thinking differently. I know first-hand the risks of business activity and the increasing reality of layoffs when things don't work so well for us. At the human level it is important, and we cannot go over a subject like this by denying it the importance it has, because the jobs of many people are at risk. For this reason I cannot allow this intervention, my first intervention in this House, before you to ask for your support and respect for all the entrepreneurs, large and small, autonomous and employees of Galician private companies, who thanks to them and their daily efforts, we can continue to grow. I think they deserve recognition from this House since today and, therefore, from today onwards. After all this, Mr Bará, if it's true that we could agree with you that it would be desirable a new location or an alternative location or other location than what the company Ence has actually had since its inception, it's not our job as Administration to value it personally. Our job and duty is to maintain rigour and apply the regulations we are competent to, and also to be very vigilant so that these regulations are always met, Mr Bará. Besides all this, I wouldn't want us to forget about the human component, about the jobs, because in this case there's no perfect solution, but if there's a few worse than others. It would be good if you could propose to this Parliament and to the citizens of Pontevedra an alternative to work, for all the people you plan to leave out of the labour market with this proposal. Would they be able to do it?, what's your alternative?, can you say? No, no, no, no. We all would like to hear these proposals here today, these alternatives for these people, but I don't think we'll listen to them because they don't exist, and you know that. Your group and the Pontevedra Council have already announced that they are very concerned about Elnosa's issue and that they will judge everything that has to do with this company, because we would like that same concern that Elnosa's has to do with generating economic activity and jobs, which we miss a lot in the city that has the greatest unemployment in Galicia. In order for a real alternative to be possible, we must revitalize the contour of Pontevedra's city, make it attractive to the entrepreneurship, accelerate PXOM, which has been paralysed for some time, to, among other things, be able to offer industrial soil, that of which we now lack. This is very serious, where do we intend to work for the citizens of Pontevedra, Mr Bará? Our group, Mr Bará, wants the citizens of Pontevedra to be able to work and live around the city, so they will always have our support. But not only must we remain in this task as politicians of the city of Pontevedra, because we have a beautiful city that is not yet located as one of the most visited in Galicia. It's also true that our local trade needs a lot of help. But you know what, Mr. Bará? This is so that local commerce won't die. But the biggest problem of all is that we have to do a lot more important things for our city, Mr Bará, before we get here to present a proposal about which we have no powers of action and which, in addition, would leave many people in the street. I think it's a duty of all of us to meet the demands of citizens. You know, Mr Bará, that our image as politicians might be much better if we spent our time taking action to make people's lives easier, not to complicate them by sending them off to unemployment. This is the work for which we are here, ladies and gentlemen. We're to serve citizens, not to close companies without giving them alternatives. I'm going to briefly detail the particularities of the case you know perfectly: Elnosa. Look, it has an original environmental authorization granted in 2008 by the Bipartisan Government of the Union, of that government where you were high in charge. That was the original, then we extended the others. That's why I don't understand in any case the argument you bring here tonight requesting the cessation of this activity as harmful and dangerous. You were here when this first authorization was granted to the company Elnosa. However, there are more solid reasons to reject this proposal than to speak of who originally granted the authorization, which you were. First of all, it is the responsibility of the Galician Union to grant environmental authorisation, but in no case is the formal concession, which depends on the central government of the State. And in the case where we are concerned, competition is clear. Our role is to ensure, as has been done for some time, that this activity is subject to limitations and controls that guarantee the minimization of its impact on the environment and people's health. This is what the General Secretariat of Environmental Quality and Assessment has guaranteed since its original use — which you have given — and also through the 2011 resolutions of the derogation, and 2013 adaptation, and in September this same year — as you well know — has expanded to December 2017. You know that this authorisation with this extension is linked in any case — as the Galician Union has already informed itself — to the company making an important investment in the manufacture of alkaline chlorine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u224	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u225	...and leaving their present... all this that you have told me to value mercury. Well, our role as Administration must be limited to ensuring compliance with regulations and legality, as it has always done to the Council of Galicia, when you were and now that we are. So, as far as it reaches the scope of the powers of the Galician Union, the continuity of Elnosa's activity will depend that the company finally decides to assume its conversion, with the investment that this entails, and thus installing a new mercury-free technology, according to the new environmental standards. And being the Junta who has to demand maximum rigour in compliance with this regulation, and so do we. Let's finish, Mr. Bará. To the colleagues in the Galician Nationalist Block, with regard to the non-law proposition presented by his group, it must be made clear that it does not correspond to the Galician Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u226	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u227	...the start of the cessation procedures of any industrial activity, as long as the activity is being carried out under the current legal framework, as is the case. Similarly, it is the responsibility of the General Administration of the State to grant or refuse to extend the extension of the occupation of public maritime-terrestrial land. And thirdly, it is not appropriate to initiate any process of recovery of space without there being an expiry of the concession, which right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u228	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u229	...have the company. It would be illegal, Mr. Bará. Look, for all these reasons that hit the current legislation and for the lack of a real alternative for Elnosa's workers, we're not actually going to support their non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u230	Finish it, please, that time has passed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u231	And so that you can walk through the city of Pontevedra and look at the people and tell them that it wasn't you who made those people out of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u232	You have the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group, author of the non-legislative proposal, Mr Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u233	Well, in the case of the People's Party representative, Mrs. Murillo, I don't know if it counts the time to speak or the number of words spoken per minute, because it shoots more than speaking. Sorry, yes, cordially. [[Murmurs.]] You spoke here of coherence. And I think you're consistent on these issues have had little, I think I've shown you clearly the lack of coherence that you've had both in the case of Ence and in the case of Elnosa. We don't say one thing and we do another. Well, I made it clear. You did a little bit of the private company here. Well, I don't know if you're in the same case, if your company is in the same case as a public domain concession and you've already been renewed, then they'll be very happy about it, right? Elnossa's new location does not have to be decided by the Town Hall. You reached an agreement in 2013 with the company that included, among other things, the transfer of the factory and that the company was committed to finding two locations, one of them in Pontevedra district. What have you been doing all these years? In 2013-2016 they had enough time for that undertaking to be fulfilled. You worry a lot about the seventy jobs that Elnosa does, but you don't care about the jobs that Elnosa destroys. Because Elnosa also destroys many jobs, apart from the prejudice that creates a harmful, dangerous and polluting company like Elnosa. And the problem is not the change in technology, the real problem is the location, the type of activity that is, the lack of legal protection for its stay there, is the extension of the concession. And you, with those meetings you've had with the company, what you're trying to do is justify the company's stay in that location based on a supposed change in technology and an investment they're going to make there. But, of course, the Council will be against, face-to-face against that permanence, as we are in the case of Ence, and we will use all the arguments and all the legal and institutional means to try to prevent that situation. I know you're coming here too... I think you're already stressing yourself as a future candidate of the People's Party in Pontevedra ; I think you're moving your chair there to your colleague Jacobo Moreira, who is already getting nervous because she wants to come to Parliament too so that she doesn't take all the focus here Mrs. Murillo. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] He has already told me, that you are looking at the appointment of some more or more honourable Member there to play his turn. Anyway, that you're taking a break at that new post... well, it must not be that you don't trust Mr. Moreira much, right? [[Laughter]] Mr. Rueda is also nervous about my intervention, which I'm revealing private conversations... yes, sir. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u234	We continue, please, and stand with respect to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u235	I'm done. Because you made reference to a retrouse, to a slogan promoted precisely by the company Ence, paid by the company Ence and the company Elnosa, which is "Pontevedra capital do paro". By the way, Pontevedra is a city that has a dynamism and an attractive city that has few cities in the world, not in Galicia, in the world. And it's not true that it's the city with more unemployment than Galicia, because for you, unemployment is the fault of others and if it goes down it's a achievement or success. The reality is that unemployment has dropped in the last two years in Pontevedra, we're at seventeen percent, we're in the middle of the Greek cities, and there are three cities that have more unemployment than Pontevedra. So don't keep repeating that slogan created and put on the posters of the city of Pontevedra by the company Ence and the company Elnosa, because it's a lie, a lie.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u236	Sorry, with regard to the amendment, Mr Bará, that I was not clear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u237	Yes, with regard to the amendment, if it were to be added, we would accept it, if it were to be replaced, logically not, although the third point, which literally coincides with the BNG proposal and, of course, is already in the BNG proposal. At any rate, we would accept a point-by-point vote so that each group would take its position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u238	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to reduce the late diagnosis of HIV/AIDS infection
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u239	This motion for a non-law tabled the following amendments: that of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Julio Torrado Quintela, and that of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mrs Eva Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u240	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mrs. Marta Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. From the Popular Group we bring to this House an initiative that aims to improve the early diagnosis of HIV, since early diagnosis is especially important to reduce the transmission of the virus between the population and also to improve the forecast of cases. The epidemic for the human immunodeficiency virus and immunodeficiency syndrome acquired in Galicia began with the diagnosis of a patient or drug user injected in 1984 — there has been a long time since this — and according to the latest data in the article "The early spread and epidemic ignition of HIV-1 in human populations", published in the journal Science in October 2014 — of which, by course, is co-authored by vigous researcher David Posada — locates the start of HIV infection around 1920 in the city of Kinshasa. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in less than a hundred years HIV has spread all over the planet, causing a public health problem of first magnitude. In the last thirty years, the infection has become a huge pandemic, which keeps around thirty-five million people in the world living with HIV and has caused the death of more than forty million people. In the beginning, AIDS also generated a great alarm in society because of its transmissible character, in addition, because the transmission mechanisms were not known and there was, at that time, no pharmacological treatment when the epidemic started. In Galicia, in the first decade, it had a strong impact on the collective of people using injectable drugs, both in morbidity and mortality. The transmissibility through this route was elevated, the epidemic spread rapidly and has affected many people. On the other hand, society and the health system were not prepared for an immediate response at that time. The fear generated by the new infection and, above all, ignorance about the channels of transmission caused social discrimination and stigmatization of these people who already had problems of social exclusion. A similar situation happened to men having sex with men, because HIV infection hit them strongly at the beginning of the epidemic. Here was a very important task for the LGTBI movement, as it was the most active social group, generating awareness in society of fighting AIDS and discrimination against the people affected. It was very important to work on the prevention of drug use and reduction of damage to drug use, and the Greek drug addiction and AIDS plans have brought important improvements, especially with drug hygienic insertion programs and alternative opiate programs. In those early years, an enormous research effort was made in all the infection-related fields. I myself was part of a research project on AIDS, back in 1988, which we were working at the Immunology Department of the Faculty of Medicine of Santiago, where we were trying to predict the behavior of the AIDS virus using the virus of pseudo-rage, because they had similar behaviors and forms of action, because — as I said at the beginning of my intervention — ignorance was enormous. Little by little, the research work was providing solutions to the many problems that have been posed, and today we can look to the future with hope in the struggle against this pandemic by 2030. The epidemiological changes detected in recent years in the HIV epidemic in Galicia that have basically turned it into an infection of sexual transmission, as well as the rise in rates in other infections of this type, have made it necessary to carry out an update of the HIV/AIDS plan, adding in this fight against other STDs, taking advantage of the synergies that occur in the prevention of all of them and following the guidance of the European plans and the Spanish plan. In the period 2004-2015, 2,177 cases of HIV infection were diagnosed in Galicia, with an average annual of 198 diagnoses, with a slight trend to decrease in the last three years. The predominant epidemiological pattern is clearly the sexual pathway, 77% of these infections. It also highlighted that the infections caused by sharing drug injection material have a downward trend and that of the 149 cases of HIV infection diagnosed in 2015 are in AIDS phase 29 cases. Onusida's 90-90-90 strategy marks for 2020 to achieve goals that 90% of HIV-infected people are diagnosed, 90% of those diagnosed access antiretroviral treatment and 90% of those receiving treatment maintain their viral load undetectable. This is one of the main challenges that you will have to face the Swedish HIV/AIDS Plan and other sexually transmitted infections 2015-2018 that took place last year, in order to achieve the end of the epidemic in Galicia. We have a major challenge ahead of us in the coming years, which is to diagnose 30% of people living with HIV and they don't know their infection. This is one of the specific objectives of the plan: to reduce the late diagnosis of HIV, as it has also shown a stabilization since January 2004. Among the individual benefits that approach us to early diagnosis are reduced morbidity and mortality, benefits from antiretroviral treatment, psychosocial support and prevention of risk behaviors to acquire other TSIs. At a collective level, undiagnosed people have a rate of 3.5 times higher transmission, and they can have a higher viremia than people diagnosed and treated, and people diagnosed use more condoms and decreases the percentage of unprotected sexual practices, which reduces the transmission of HIV and, therefore, other sexually transmitted infections. To achieve this, there will be a need first to raise people's awareness of HIV testing and to offer this evidence widely in health centres. Finally, to improve the early diagnosis together with the opportunity to control the infection offered by the antiretroviral treatment allows us to contribute to Onusida's goals, to be optimistic for a future without AIDS. That is why we bring this initiative, which we hope you will count on with the support of all the groups in this House and which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to initiate the routine offer of HIV testing, provided for in the Swedish Plan against HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted infections 2015-2018, to people between 15 and 59 years sexually active, who are going to proceed with a blood extraction in their health center, with the aim of reducing the late diagnosis of HIV infection." Because — once again, ladies and gentlemen, as I began — early diagnosis is especially important to reduce the transmission of the AIDS virus among the population and also to improve the forecast of cases. Finally, to improve the health of the Galicians and the Greeks, which is what matters to all of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, I deeply appreciate your initiative. I am aware of his special sensitivity on some aspects of this subject — which I thank you and you have already shown in this House on other occasions —; a sensitivity that, if Isaac Newton was saying he was riding on giant shoulders, I believe there are situations or themes in which, given the party on which he is fighting, I wish you all luck because you ride at the foot of the horses, and it's complicated that you defend situations like this before your party. I wish you all the luck of the world, but you'll allow me to — without making personal reference because I think you've made a very clear exposition — propose some idea that I think has gone away from this initiative. We made some amendments: one, removing the term "sexually active" from the point you propose, because there are people who may not be sexually active at a time but yes later, and it would also be good if they could go through that test process. And then basically, what we're proposing is to budget both this plan and the drug addiction program, and the collective aid program, because that's where the real policies are. Because we're wise, what they bring here is an initiative -- this is no longer a campaign initiative, this is a cathedral initiative -- that the only thing I'm proposing is to offer people the HIV test. And what's next? Bringing an initiative to offer people to open the door. This is not an initiative for a full-time, this is a sensible thing that needs to be done and done: to offer people the opportunity to take a test to detect HIV. Of course it's normal, but we consider that if you bring this issue to this plenary, what you have to do is talk about budget allocation. Because what happened to this issue is that because of a 2012 People's Party decree they've been out of the system, for example, people who have come from some other countries where the incidence of HIV is much greater, are out of the system and can't be applied to them. So we have a problem with possible contagions that we don't apply to this test. What happened is that, with that decree, the sick do not have the same abilities as others to pay the treatments, which are expensive. Therefore, we are interfering with economic decisions — which is the basis of that 2012 decree — in health decisions. By the way, as happened to hepatitis C. Mr. President, just calling me "false" a member of the People's Party, I don't know if you deserve to say something...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u244	You deserve to keep talking. Thank you very much. Please, I didn't hear the statement you said, keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u245	In case of sight it's called scotome, which the mind sees what you want to see, and in case of hearing it has another name. Anyway, as time goes on, I've been taught in my house the silly words... In any case, those decisions... occur the same as in that case of hepatitis C, sadly. But it also happens that there's been a reduction in aid, a lot of help to the committees. You closed Vigo's foster home, why? Because the Government of the Union, the Government of Alberto Núñez Feijóo, has reduced to zero, in this case, the contributions that were made. They shut down the anti-Sided committees in Lugo and Santiago. He closed a foster home in Ourense, why? Because they were reduced to half the help they received and because they tried to speculate urbanly; it was much more interesting to speculate urban in that case than to have a foster home there. Of course, it's true that in that case the inclination to suffocate those who were there was agreed between the Union and the Bishop of Ourense, which leads us all to understand the origin of this situation, and is that there is a consciousness, usually marginal, of who are affected by this kind of situation, by this disease, that it has cost you a lot of time to admit and that some do not yet admit it. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. President, I don't know if this...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u246	Look, here's what regulates the debate. It's me, so...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u247	That's why I'm asking you if you're not worthy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u248	...then I'm telling you, that you can continue to intervene, that until this moment — that I have heard — there was no serious interruption and at least no shrapnel, that you can sometimes hear from all the benches. So please continue with your intervention. And the rest of the Members pray that they remain silent and pay attention to the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u249	I agree, when I speak I always let go of the bench that is on this side. In any case, he said that the Ourense Bishopship and the Galician Junta suffocated a shelter for AIDS patients, a center that worked as a day hospital. And they report from the center themselves, they denounced the committees themselves, that this evil two-party government invested around 55 euros per person in the fight against AIDS; now it's invested less than half. That's anti-psyched politics. That is why we believe, yes, that it is important to support an initiative like this because, simply, if they did it without needing to bring it to the full, it would be well done. So, still, I think those amendments are interesting to prove that we are really conscious, but what is important is to be convinced of what is done. And as Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo said — and I return to personal appeal — I wish you all the luck of the world because I know that you have a good job ahead of you and that you want to do it with good conscience — and I am fully aware of that — and I wish you all the luck because in cases like this it is very hard to see some political party defend some positions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrado. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to Mrs Eva Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u251	Thank you, President. It certainly surprises the initiative precisely when we have just discussed the budgets in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In the case of health, there was neither a minute nor a contribution from the Government to take into account in prevention programs an improvement on HIV/AIDS prevention. And I wanted to do a couple of things before I referred to the initiative, which is also related to the subject: One, counsellors should change the gender gap and the issue of sexual orientation in their sexual health reports and plans. And I sincerely say that in the HIV/AIDS report of the Health Council — because I read it to prepare for this intervention — women who have sex with women do not appear anywhere in the report, and this is quite negative. In fact, the People's Party has moved it in its intervention, and it says that most of the transmissions — even now when the method of addictions has been changed — are no longer so parentally, but, above all, by sexual contact, and yet the report says that 39.4% refers to men having sex with men, 37.6 to heterosexual relationships, but does not speak of any women having sex with women, nor does it mean that there are many, few or no infections. There's just invisibility because no data is being collected, and we've already reported it on other occasions. And secondly, the report itself moves — I just named it — 39.4% between men with sex with men and 37.6% in the case of heterosexual relations. I sincerely believe — and I say it as a contribution — that this issue should already be changed about people's sexual orientations to report on the impact of disease transmissions, in this case, on HIV. Because they could do as Gesida does — which is the group of experts in the National Plan, which is also dependent on the Ministry and, therefore, their reports are official reports — and refers more than to people in particular, to practices in particular. Gesida's own profiling plan — which I've also been reviewing to prepare for this intervention — talks about what relationships are or what sexual practices lead to more infections, and above all, they're the prophylactically unprotected annual coits. There could be relationships between men or they couldn't be. So that's a recommendation. With regard to the initiative itself, we do not understand this concern now and that, as we have already said, there is a permanent cut in resources that have to do with the prevention not only of HIV/AIDS but also of the infection of other sexually transmitted diseases; the anti-AIDS committees are, as has already been said here, missing. But the evaluation of the Health Council's HIV/AIDS Plan itself — this document of the Health Council itself — says, on page 39, that "investments in the Galician HIV/AIDS Plan of Action remain at high levels between 2003 and 2008, and from that year they appreciate significant decreases due to changes in public administrations resulting from the economic crisis. In 2012 and 2013 finalist funds for the autonomic AIDS plans approaching the Ministry of Health disappear." I mean, it's your own Government that's taking on the cuts you've made, both from the central government and from the autonomous government, about games that are essential. So we have a situation where there are cuts in drug and HIV subsidies, which is a major cut in the Communicable Disease Prevention Programme from 2011 to 33.7%. And we ask the amendment to recover the budgets in this matter, because if it's no use simply to do this test, with which we agree. It seems to us very good to offer to carry out this test. We also propose here that you take advantage of the screening to also do the serology of hepatitis B and C. We know that these serologys are not for the global population, but if you have to do a questionnaire, an interview, to offer this test to people who approach primary care, take advantage of this because the people on the Hepatitis C Platform are reporting that it is not being carried out precisely with the Hepatitis C Approach Plan in preventive matters. So you could take advantage of this decision as well. Another important part of this plan, which is not met either, is precisely what it has to do with the information and training of professionals. So, let us also propose to you in this amendment that you take advantage of the circumstance to carry out general campaigns for the population, concerning this test and regarding information from groups or risk activities, which speak of both HIV/AIDS, hepatitis C and hepatitis B — although it is true that the sexual transmission of hepatitis C is much lower — and other sexually transmitted diseases. In addition, since the Galician Council's own report talks about the importance — and I am finished — of prevention, see if you can start a study for the possible financing of the prophylactic means. At least put the study in place and then calculate how much it would cost to start it up or make a discount, among other things, so that precisely the absence of economic means is not an aggravating factor or an impediment to be able to take preventive measures in sexually transmitted diseases. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs Noa Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u253	Well, good afternoon. As for the concrete proposal put forward by the People's Party, to say that Mr. Torrado qualified it as sensible. I don't know if it's very sensible that the People's Party itself includes a measure on this proposal that does not innovate anything at all about the measures that have already been taken in that Welsh HIV/AIDS Plan and other 2015-2018 infections. It's good that the People's Party asks the People's Party to comply with its program and to comply with its plan, but since we're fully involved. We're not going to oppose the concrete proposal, but we really wanted to make some shade. We understand that we cannot untie the debate on which measures to be taken in favour of the early detection of this issue, which is undoubtedly an objective for which we must walk as a society — all of us will agree — but it is true that this issue cannot be dealt with in isolation from the context in which we are. What context are we in? For we are in a context where Galician public health is in a state of true emergency thanks to the progressive cuts of the People's Party, which is an authentically hostile organization for health, and which in the last seven years has dedicated itself to boosting all kinds of measures that have been grounded in the dismantling of this public health: a progressive reduction of budgets — as has been the case in this debate — the elimination of professionals, the reduction of services and so on. And this in practice involved, for example, drugs, which are so expensive, finally establishing almost one tax on the disease of people with less resources in a vulnerable situation. And it is true that there are people in this situation who are affected by AIDS who are twice as much affected by this issue. The People's Party has continued to pursue this policy of cuts without concern to it, because this very morning it has reminded us that it does not care at all about anything as serious as what happened to the issue of hepatitis C. Since the BNG we understand that all these cuts have a serious impact on the provision of health services globally and on the deterioration of health care, and this has also happened in particular with the issue of HIV and AIDS. The fellow Torrado and Solla spoke about some of the cuts, and we could remember that, as early as 2011, the Government of Greece, in the resolution of the call for grants to projects of associations and municipalities that develop public health actions in the field of AIDS in Galicia, made a drastic cut of more than 106,000 euros on the same aid, for example, in 2010 — I am not going to 2009 but to 2010, already a year planned by the People's Party itself. In this way, they were left out of these aids many associations that had come to do a work primarily of volunteering, a type of associations that had no income and which, therefore, were left without own funds and which depended on these subsidies to carry out this activity, which had an important role — here was the example already of Santiago or Ourense in the villages — to predict and first of all care for all the people affected. Since the BNG we believe that it is the public administration that must make these types of benefits, but it is of course responsible if there are social entities that help this work and dismantle them and contribute to certain territories having deficiencies — as some examples have already come out this afternoon. But, at last, nothing surprises a government that I defuse so little in so little time with regard to health. We, logically, do not oppose this concrete measure but we understand that it must be accompanied by a reversal of all these cuts that have been applied in public health so that this 2015-2018 Plan can actually be carried out in all its terms, although it would be insufficient but at least that, and do not come to advertise an initiative that should already be implemented routinely. We understand that, in addition to what is being considered, this has a lot of moral doubles: to come with this measure in particular when primary care — which is where to be provided to the user — is being absolutely demanded. In their own goals, they increase the performance of HIV testing from primary care centers and enhance new tools such as rapid testing, etc. How do you fulfill them — I wonder — with such a crippled and slime health as we have? It would also be interesting if they were to sink into other measures — which they have already discarded — such as the establishment of area health councils, and thus approach that Paris Strategy — which in other latitudes if they assumed that consensus around municipalism — to work, too, jointly in something like prevention of diseases as important as this. And, just to finish, to incise too -- as did Compañera Solla -- on the issue of gender. I was surprised that in the plan they collected as they were several factors that increased women's vulnerability and invisibility for this genre.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u254	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u255	I'll at least have as much time as Mrs. Murillo before. He calls me the attention that is recognized in the motivations of the plan but which is not followed by concrete measures. It speaks constantly — especially in the introductory part — of promoting transversality, but — as we always say — transversality must be accompanied by measures, if it is not a word that lies at the thresholds of the plans and that does not lead anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u256	Thank you very much, Mrs. Presas. For the author group of the non-law proposal, Mrs. Marta Rodríguez-Vispo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, after listening to them, you don't seem to like the People's Group bringing these kinds of initiatives, which seem to be heritage on the left. Mr. Torrado, I thank you very much for your concern for me, but you may be quiet because I, in my group, have no problem with these issues. It's more: we're in the 21st century and my group, the People's Group, has opinions on this subject that are as valid as theirs. So I appreciate it, but don't worry about me. [[Applause]] And Mrs. Presas, initiatives are not only to innovate but also to urge the Government to do something, which is the goal of this, to do something on this subject, and we tell you one of the possibilities that you can put into practice after you present a plan. By the way, it's a fantastic plan, it has a lot of measures, and they'll tell us over time the impact they have on the transmission of HIV infection; we'll talk in a few years of the positive repercussions that the Council has just made. But by focusing on the subject: you always talk about it, you always talk about cuts, you always talk about the negative side; you never recognize -- I think sometimes you don't listen -- the positive, because I told you that the most positive of these last few years, and the good news, is that HIV is coming down slightly in Galicia in the last three years. I think it's news to celebrate and not to continue talking about the dark, black Galicia, with the cuts of the PP, that we all live because in a tremendously dark times. So, I think we have to be more positive, support what's really good for the Greeks and for the Greeks, and so I think we're all going to be much better. You are presenting some amendments, both from the Socialist Group and from En Marea — which is not going to give me time to tell you everything I have to say — but that, Mr. Torrado, one of your colleagues this morning, Mrs. Vilan, explained to us what was an amendment and said that the amendments are used to improve the initiatives and to express the different political views of other groups. But these amendments that you tabled, rather than to improve, are a new initiative. If they want another initiative, it has nothing to do with what we're talking about today. It's like En Marea's, it's new initiatives and therefore we can't accept them. With regard to your amendment to your group, point 1 is our initiative. And we offer you a transaction where point 5 refers to: its replacement amendment that is to be added. Our initiative remains as point 2 of the initiative. In the amendment by En Marea, for in point 1 of the clay — which there was no, Mrs Solla — of HCV, because the strategy of screening, we believe it must be within the national level and must be within the framework of the strategic plan currently under review. We do not refuse, of course, Your Honor, to see that this must be raised at the level of the national health system. As for point 3, to associate prevention with HIV control and other sexually transmitted infections — as I have just said in the same explanatory statement — with the epidemiological changes detected in recent years in the HIV epidemic in Galicia become a basically sexually transmitted infection...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u259	...and they make it necessary, Mr. President, to finish an update of the Anti-Dense Plan by adding the fight against the other ETS, in which we agree with you. With regard to budgetary resources — which also discussed the cuts — in the 2017 budgets, the Council continues to cooperate with the associations and NGOs working in this direction through aid in competitive competition. In the 2017 budgets in the aid for activities developed by the municipalities...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u260	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u261	... they are destined — Mr President, indeed, a second — EUR 6.8 million — just like the previous two years — and in terms of the existence of drugs in collaboration with Fegamp, EUR 3.278,000. I am hoping that they will really meditate on it and vote in favour of this initiative, and that the aim of this initiative is to reduce the late diagnosis of HIV in the population of Greece. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u262	I'm sorry, with regard to the amendment of the PSOE, then I understood that I was offering a possible transaction. And with regard to En Marea?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u263	En Marea's can't accept it because it's a new initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u264	All right, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-27-DSPG009.u266	After this initiative has been completed, to make it easier to attend the funeral as well, we will end today's plenary session and resume tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you very much.
