ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u1	Good morning. Let us resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Fernández Leiceaga, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the results that the Government of Galicia intends to obtain for Galicia in the revision of the model of self-financing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u2	Mr. Leicega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u3	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we are going to debate self-financing today. Normally this is a debate — let us say — arid and not interesting, but, however, for citizens, it should be a debate of enormous importance, because in the end, autonomous funding is what it tells us how much activity will be able to sustain the Union of Galicia, that is, how many basic services we are going to make available to citizens, to what extent we are able to invest in productive activities or in necessary infrastructure. As you well know, this model should have been reviewed after five years, so in 2014. It's not done. The branch minister explained that there were obvious economic difficulties and political difficulties, undoubtedly also obvious, for this to happen. But in 2017, however, there is a commitment by this same minister to make the review, and I think it is reasonable, after eight years, to do a review of this model. In addition, it should be a review — I suppose you will share it with me — that, even if it is done during 2017, it has effects since, at least, January of this year. So it is urgent to define what we have asked you from Galicia to review this model, which asks you above all Mr. President of the Union and his Government, what demands it makes and what are the objectives it sets so that Galicia can have a reasonable result after the revision of the model. We must not ignore that this model already meets the cost needs, even if it is imperfect. It's a model that has a strong redistributive component, it's not a model that's focused on community tax capabilities, it's not. It's a model, besides, that, by the weightings you enter to define and calculate spending needs, you already take into account both cost and demand elements, that is, you already take them into account. We may not like weighting, but it already takes into account dispersal and takes into account aging, for example. Of course it can be improved. I myself, in academic or journalistic writings, defended that this model had confusing objectives, far-sighted procedures and that it had problems of residual inequality, that there were problems of tax autonomy. But we must not ignore that, however, this model gives Galicia some results that are not negligible. In terms of per capita expenditure needs, we are approximately at point 108, and in terms of unit financing and we are also above average. So it's important not to miss out on these results when you ask us for a review, and in this sense, I would like you to make an evaluation of the model results and a new scenario where Galicia should be headed in the next few days. And for this, it's also very important to be able to weave external and internal complications in Galicia, politics and civil society. Your group, with the majority of you, said not to the special parliamentary committee on this which we have proposed, but I'm sure you will have some element to establish a political and social consensus in Galicia that defends our position. So I ask you, what results do you expect from reviewing this model? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u4	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Leicega, I agree with the content of your exhibition, beginning with stressing the importance of an autonomic financing model for Galicia. Indeed, Your Honor, you will recall, in the recent investment debate, that there you and I pronounce in relation to this approach of the autonomic model from the point of view of financing. We raised three basic questions: the first, the stability of the model; the second, the sustainability of the model; and the third, the progressiveness of the model. Stable for what? Because there can't be a model subject to permanent changes, Your Honor. Sustainable, because it's not worth a model where autonomous communities are told that they're going to have money for everything, i.e., frustrating and unreal, but it's not worth a model where autonomous communities are the poor kin of the state structure in Spain. And finally, progressive, progressive, because this has always been the case between people, those who pay more and those who pay less depending on their income, and consequently also between the whole community, which we form the only state, the state of autonomy. Therefore, Your Honor, the model, ultimately, cannot be at odds with pressures derived from arbitrary games or from political or ideological positions by the rotating governments of each autonomous community. In short, Your Honor, the model has to talk about the actual cost of the services we provide – – that is the approach I would like to share with you – – the real cost of the services that autonomous communities provide, and the real cost has much to do with – very much to see – the dispersion, has a lot to do with the aging of the population and has a lot to do with demographic evolution, which we now know about Spain and about Galicia. Your Honor, why the real cost? Because already in Galicia we have more than 24% of the population over 65 years old, five points more than the average of Spain. The actual cost, because the population dispersal in Galicia, for example, accounts for 14% of health centers throughout Spain, with a population of 6%. The real cost, Your Honor, because, without leaving health care, an optional primary care attends fifteen singular entities in Galicia, and in Spain, two singular entities. A real cost, Your Honor, because the ageing and dispersion of the population in Galicia is costing from the very important health point of view. A real cost, Your Honor, because school transportation in Galicia is four times as much as the average of Spain. And a real cost because, for example, in Galicia we have 8% of the total schools in Spain, while we have 6% of the total students. So, Your Honor, we are in a technical debate, certainly, but also in a political debate, and there I would like to have a strengthened position, and there you have a role, and I would like to count on you for that strengthened position. Your Honor, the financing debate has nothing to do with sovereignist and independent approaches. I'd like you to agree with this. Your Honor, the debate on funding has nothing to do with the hectares of the territories or with the identity principles of the territories. With funding we're going to talk about grown-ups and children, towns and villages. And finally, Your Honor, I believe that in the funding debate there is an increasingly important separate part of the public health financing system. 42% of the spending of autonomous communities is public health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u7	If we don't do a piece separate from the health expense, we won't finally be in the approaches that you and I are currently defending. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u8	Thank you, President. Replica, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u9	Yes, Mr. President of the Board, I hope you didn't deduce from my words, I certainly don't see where it can be deduced that my approach has something to do with identity matters; rather, my approach clearly has to do with spending needs, which you call effective cost and I call expenditure needs. But it wasn't clear to me that you aspired to improve Galicia's position in your results with the new model in terms of funding per unit of expenditure or not, because that's decisive. Some of the things I'm thinking are good for me. We have also made an evaluation of the model, and we believe that we need to improve the vertical balance between the state and communities in favour of communities, just because we support basic services from autonomous finance. We also believe that we need to strengthen the weighting that health has in the model, which is quite below its actual weight, is at twenty percent, and it should be at least 40%. We believe that two new steps must be introduced for the equivalent population for health effects and for the population also for the purpose of social security: over 75 and over 85, which generate more expenditure. We believe that we must make many other reforms that we will have the opportunity to discuss. But my question is, what, at the end of this, are we going to have more resources per unit of necessity or not? What's your plan? Do you argue that this should be the case or do you think that the situation we have is enough? And secondly, it's good to hold your hand for consensus. What procedures do you want to put in place? You said that not to a parliamentary committee, I can understand it, but tell me what the instrument is, and if that instrument is a balanced and sensible instrument, including, where we are all political groups and then we can move it to civil society, we will undoubtedly agree as well. We don't have an exclusive approach, or much less, but if we want to know, before we begin, what are the objectives of the Government of the United States on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u10	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, in no case did I say that your approach had to do with the principles of identity, what if I tried to translucently is that in your party there are such approaches, and I'm going to sit there with the presidents of the various autonomous communities, some of them of your party, and, consequently, Your Honor, it wouldn't make much sense, in order not to fool anyone, that you here tell me one thing but then in the Tax Policy Council and Finance your party just defends the opposite, because that wouldn't be useful to anyone. And that is why I am pleased that you reiterate today that funding has nothing to do with the identity principles and the sovereignist principles and therefore you are much closer to the proposals of this majority parliamentary group than with the proposals, for example, other parliamentary groups that pose self-determination, sovereignist and identity principles. Calm down, since you've been a spokesperson, because you were previously in favor of a concert system in Galicia. Yes, Your Honor, you voted in favour. And that, as you know, is a bad deal for the country. I know, Your Honor, that you didn't defend him, you weren't in the House and now you're here; calm me down. But I want to tell you that, when I ask you about these kinds of questions, it is that if the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in Galicia and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in the whole state speak with the same language, we can move forward, Your Honor. And I'm going to defend Galicia's interests. If there is any president of my party's autonomous community who defends other interests, there will be confrontation, Your Honor. I'd like you to raise that question clearly as well. And you, as far as it may affect the Socialist Party in Galicia, incense, Your Honor. I, of course, can assure you that I will in no way waste the opportunity to put into value the principles that you and I shared. For example, the value and weight of health in the financial system rises. For example, if the age structures are actually taken into account. It is not the same health expenditure in paediatric age as expenditure from 65 to 70 or from 70 to 75 years, or from 75 to 80 years, or from 80 to 85 years. That's what we've been defending here before you came into this legislation that we've just started. So, Your Honor, we agreed. Look, Your Honor, we will defend and defend that a good system is compatible for Galicia and for the whole of Spain. Why? Because equality is good for all, and we're not going to ask for anything more than what we like, Your Honor, but I'm not going to ask for anything less than Galicia. It's nothing new. I said this in my capacity as President of the Galician Council in a hall in this Parliament, in front of the President of the Government of Spain. Look, Your Honor, what is about changing the current model, bilaterally imposed between the tripartite of the Generalitat of Catalonia, the Socialist Party of Catalonia and the Socialist Party of Spanish Workers in Madrid, unilaterally imposed on all. Look, is Galicia responsible? Yes. Does Galicia do it? Yes. Will Galicia defend equality? Yes. Does Galicia defend the unity of the country? Yes. Is Galicia a serious community? Yes. Are we good? Yes. But we're not fools, Mr. Leicega. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the agreements of the country announced by Mr. President of the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u13	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u14	Mr. Feijó, during the investment debate I asked you a question that I am going to repeat today. I don't know if you're at any point feeling any repair when you check that your word is useless. I ask you about such scandalous breaches as when we talk about AVE, Pemex or when we talk about AP-9. In 2012 you announced to us, by land, sea and air, a strategic alliance with Pemex -- I don't know -- in that election year your promises; we were going to build fourteen tugs, fleets; the oil tanker would have its logistics base in Punta Langosteira; he talked about chemists... The reality was very different — and you can believe me well that I feel it. It was all in two fleets and on sale at the balance price of a historic yard for this country. The laughs of Vigo and Pontevedra if they're full, full of lies and thousands of people cheated, because you've been playing with your hope. But let's talk about a second important issue: the arrival of the AVE. You, no longer elected president of the Galician Union, signed the Abrahamic Pact; shielded the AVE by 2015, then by 2018, we are still waiting. I, Mr. Feijóo, do not know who you believe: whether the minister who announces that there will be delays in the morning or the minister who tells us that everything was a lie in the afternoon. You'll understand, Mr. Feijóo, that this isn't serious when we're talking about such an important topic, and what they've confirmed is that AVE won't reach Galicia in 2018, as you said it was armored. But the successes of that meeting that you have described as historical to the Minister of Development, that minister of the north, do not remain here. You also talked about AP-9. The minister said that, in relation to the transfer of AP-9, nothing at all. And you've been quiet despite knowing that Basques and Catalans have been managing similar transfers for many years. The minister told us that, from the rescue of AP-9, nothing at all, that the Greeks have to keep paying fees that are a real scam. And you shut up while your party says there's 5,000 to 6 billion -- whatever it takes -- to rescue some Madrid radials that are a real ruin. And, as it ends, yesterday at the Congress of Deputies, the President, Member of the province of Pontevedra, signed the veto on the debate of the law which we will unanimously approve in this Parliament to transfer AP-9. The conclusion, Mr. Feijóo, of this huge coat of hair is that either you take the yellowish and Welsh or you take it to your party. And I ask you today whether you're going to follow the line of blaming me for all the evils that have happened or whether or not you're going to start to exercise as president of this country, face our interests and show us, even if it's only for once, that your word is worth something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, let's do some memory. In 1976-1977, yes, Your Honor, we approved the Law of Political Reform and then the Constitution; by the way, the rule that allows us to be here today and that you are the spokesperson of a parliamentary group and that I am the President of the Council of Galicia, the rule that allows us to have a Parliament and have a Statute of autonomy. [[Laughter]] The nationalism in that case was against the Constitution and the nationalism in that case was against the highway of the Atlantic. Nationalism is still against the Constitution — it hasn't changed much — but nationalism now seems to be in favour of the Atlantic highway. So, Your Honor, I would like to congratulate you because you are gradually moving in the right direction. Look, Your Honor, we have our ideas clear, we don't change depending on who's in government. I am much more serious with the Government of my party than you were with the Government of the Socialist Party in Madrid when I ruled the PSOE. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, Your Honor, there's no problem with the positioning of the Atlantic motorway; for us, the transfer of the Atlantic highway remains an undeniable plan. [[Applause]] Second point, Your Honor. In the last fifteen days — from which I had the opportunity to enjoy your question and you from my answer — in Galicia things have happened in relation to the Atlantic highway, there has indeed been a meeting with the Minister of Development. [[Laughter]] Look, I'm going to tell you what was before and what's now. So far since 1973 — date of concession — Galicia has had no opinion on the motorway of the Atlantic. Now, Your Honor, there is a bilateral commission — from which we are putting the scope and content — for the joint management of the Atlantic motorway. First change. Second change. Your Honor, until now, on the freeway of the Atlantic — state title when you were in the Government — paid — and signed the agreement — EUR 6 million to finance the costs of a state highway. Now, Your Honor, Galicia won't pay a euro. That means saving 186 million euros in favour of the heritage of the Autonomous Community. [[Applause]] Your Honor, in 15 days we moved from the unilateral management of the State to the joint management between the Central Government and the Autonomous Community. And we have just paid 6 million euros — we have paid 52 million euros since you signed the agreement — Galicia saves 186 million euros. I know, Your Honor, that seems to you little, but, of course, with 186 million euros you can almost make a new bridge. So what is the nationalist's approach? The nationalist approach, Mrs. Pontón, is to vote against requesting the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, as you have done. Second, to sign with Madrid fund the fees of a state highway, as you did, and we had to proceed with the agreement until we denounced it. And third, Your Honor, the shared management of the Atlantic motorway, the saving of 186 million euros in tariffs of the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the irrevocable planning of the transfer of the Atlantic motorway is the positioning of this majority group and this government. Nothing else, thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u17	Thank you, President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u18	The truth is, Mr. Feijóo, you always get over yourself when it comes to, yes, yes, being helpful to the interests of Madrid. And I have to tell you that on some occasions the serious thing is that you rub the ridiculous, and this worries me, because you're president of the Galician Union. He says you don't change your mind. Look, in 2012, Mr.Núñez Feijóo said: "I will not allow the AVE to delay beyond 2018." This is these days, Mr. Feijóo: "If you put the money, we'll have an AVE with a reasonable date discount." You are, sir, the king of euphemism and you are the king of betrayals to this country. Look, you're talking about historical a commission that exactly consists of? What are you going to negotiate with Audasa as they fix the bonnets? But, Mr. Feijóo, take yourself a little more seriously, because I think when we talk about AP-9 management, we're talking about something very important. And you have accepted not only that your minister — this friend minister of the north — gives you a letter to the transfer of AP-9, but that you have also accepted that the former Minister, the Member of your party, breaks the unanimous complaint of this Parliament with the veto of shame. Will you do something, Mr. Feijó? Or are you just going to keep your arms crossed thinking that propaganda and euphemism doesn't matter what happens in this country? Well, look, I'm telling you, since the Galego Nationalist Block, we're going to continue working to modernise the railway in our country and to get an AP-9 Welsh and free of fees. And I also tell you — and I can tell you — that we are going to make two very specific proposals: first, the BNG will bring to this House an appeal before the Constitutional Court for a veto before the debate of the law that we will adopt unanimously. I hope, Mr Feijóo, to have the support of all the groups in this House to do so. [[Applause]] And secondly, are you going to do something about the ridiculous thing you're doing, that it doesn't even have enough weight to make the laws we approve here respect in Madrid? For I have already told you: if there is no immediate correction, from the BNG Parliamentary Group, we will ask the President of Congress to be reprobated for the outrage of this country, for committing irresponsibility and sovereignty to say "no" to a law that is beneficial to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Mr. Feijóo, you have to choose which side you want to be from: on the side of Galicia or on the side of those who break with the agreements of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u20	That is what you used to say when you were doing the freeway of the Atlantic, and, therefore, they are now still being attacked but in different versions. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, we know each other, and the important thing is that the Greeks know each other and that's why I'm President of the Galician Union, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor, we've been ruling for eight years, the Greeks know me well and measure the value of everyone's word. [[Applause]] And that's why on September 25, the Greeks just spoke in a clear and clear way. Look, Your Honor, I'm glad to know that you want the highway; it's, of course, an important qualitative change in the country's nationalism. You talk about rescues and you talk about other things. I suppose you know that when they were in the Government they signed heritage responsibility on the motorways of the Autonomous Community: on the highway of Salnes, on the highway of Barbanza, on the Brión-Noia... yes, Your Honor. What you're now arguing about is that the central government does, that is to fulfill the contract, were the contracts that you signed when you were in the government. They're here at your disposal, Your Honor. Who do you want to fool? Who do you want to fool? Yes, Your Honor, Galician highways with a shady toll have a heritage responsibility, just like radials, in case they break, and those contracts have been signed by you when you were in government. And, therefore, do not deceive anyone, because cheating people has no right to anyone and much less one Member or one Member, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] But let's go on, Your Honor. Of course, I'm not going to fool people I owe myself to on the subject of AVE. And that's why since the opposition I said that all those things that BNG and PSOE said that AVE would be in the year 2012 were really a strict outrage. You were silent, Your Honor, I didn't. And I'm not going to shut up, Your Honor, because I'm defending my country with ideas and political speeches. And above all, Your Honor, I am defending my country. You know why? Because I owe him and nobody else. And as I owe it to him, I know perfectly well that for a year of blocking the Government of Spain no one could sign any contract in the country because the law forbids it. And now I would ask you, will you block the budget for 2017? Because if for a year they block the possibility of modifying or hiring and for the next year they block Spain's budget, how are we going to do the AVE, Your Honor? I hope that Spain has budgeted in 2017 and we did not then give the wrong idea. Look, Your Honor, the Greeks believe in my word, and that's why I'll never tell the Greeks that if we get the title of the highway, the beaches will be free; that's what I leave to you and your conscience. [[Applause]] And I repeat again, Your Honor: at this point, there is no need to rethink the AVE, we must do it. AVE has to be done in 2018 and the specific problems of the concrete tranches have to have a concrete answer. But, of course, I'm not going to go through at least, Your Honor. You know why? Because I'm not going to change my mind, neither when I was in the opposition, nor when I was in the government, nor when I just took on the new responsibilities of the government. And in January they have to tell us what the real problems are and how they solve the real problems. But, of course, I'll never participate in a government where I said AVE would be in Galicia in 2012; you, yeah. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, about Pemex's decision to abandon the announced project in the outer port of the Coruña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u22	Mr. Villares Naveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, indeed, a lot of people have trusted you in the past elections, have introduced himself as a Galician militant and a lot of people have trusted in his word. What's the matter with your word? That three months have passed from those elections and we have seen several consecutive breaches of that word: non-compliance in AP-9, non-compliance in the AVE, non-compliance with Pemex... it seems that his word is worth little or nothing or that his political weakness is very high, both here and within the structure of his party in Madrid. With regard to AP-9, you were not able to assert the unanimous position of this Parliament in defending a political position of country in relation to AP-9, in relation to strategic infrastructure, and you could not avoid the veto of Parliament itself made by your party. That's his weakness. Nor in relation to the AVE was he able to enforce the deadlines that you yourself imposed for the completion of the works, and acted more like a government delegate, like a boy from Rajoy's errands or a newly arrived Minister of Development who as a person truly responsible for his country and president of his country. But he also broke his word in connection with Pemex. You sold a smoke, sold promises of something you couldn't fulfill, of something that didn't depend on you, and did it to make it happen throughout Galicia as an own electoral success and as a political success that didn't depend on you. What he did with Pemex, announcing heavy workload for the whole Vigo stream, which he couldn't accomplish later, and what he's still in Vigo waiting for explanations for that situation, is something that should make him reconsider how you deal with the electoral promises of matters that he can't fulfill. And especially significant was the promises he made in 2012 regarding Punta Langosteira, ensuring that a terminal of hydrocarbons would be created there, that Pemex would bring the largest terminal of hydrocarbons to the whole of southern Europe, and everything remained at nothing. You came to sit on 3 October 2012 at a meeting of the Pemex Board of Directors here in Galicia, you came to sit at the Board of Directors meeting, you thought you were Pemex's CEO. That's yes, then, for the first time in twenty-five years of his political career, he made no statement on the way out, because he came out a little rudely from that full identification of his business facet with his political facet, and he was completely discredited. That's right, Enrique Losada, the president of the Harbour Authority, went out for you to say he sat there because he was born to be grateful. From there his electoral campaign turned around that promise that you were pointing out as a achievement of your own. Well, people trusted his word in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, and now, fifteen days ago, you have to go out defending Pemex, excusing Pemex for not doing Punta Langosteira's work, a work that would bring many jobs to the entire metropolitan area of Coruña. Instead of you demanding explanations to those who are in breach of their contracts and those who are in breach of their promises, after deceiving you and making him sit on the board of directors, as if you were one more, executive member of the Pemex Board of Directors, instead of demanding those responsibilities, you go and act like the CEO who is not from Pemex, apologizing to the company itself for not doing that work. You sold as your own achievement to which you had no right, because it did not depend on you or upon the Board. If you assumed that as a achievement, will you now assume your failure for not having produced that investment? You, who was Galician militant, will now assume that failure as your own? What you've assumed as a success now will assume as a failure? What's left of all that propaganda, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u24	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, tell me you don't have the leadership inside my party. Well, that, of course, is your opinion. I think you do, and you have more and more leadership within your party. [[Applause]] But, questions aside, Your Honor, welcome to the business world. But you should distinguish the board of directors. I never sat on a Pemex board of directors, I don't know what you mean. I think Pemex's board of directors is held in Federal District, Mexico. So I never sat on a board of directors of Pemex, neither as a guest nor as an observer. But probably, as you just got to the business world, you still don't distinguish it from a board of directors. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, last October came to the Congress of the Union the Secretary General of Energy of the Mexican Government. And he said that Pemex's income dropped by 75%. Pemex is finally a company and, as such, must be subject to economic rationality. Like every company, if they degrade their income in this magnitude, you need to make adjustments. That's what the Mexican Minister of Energy said. That is, a drop in Pemex's income of 75%. I suppose this will have some value for you. When Pemex signed the agreement in Galicia, the price of the barrel was $114. In December of last year I was at $34 and now it's with a rebound at $56. By giving you data about that company, since you are interested in meeting them, in 2013 Pemex lost $11 billion; in 2014, $15.400 million; in 2015, $40 billion; and in 2016, $7.300 million. So, Your Honor, of course we would like Pemex to keep all his investments in Galicia, but do you think a company with this result can keep all investments in Galicia or Mexico or anywhere else in the world? Your Honor, am I now responsible for the fall in the price of the cru? Yeah, well... [[Laughter]] Your Honor, I take on all the responsibilities you want to implement me, but the Greeks know how to read and write, ladies and gentlemen. Look, if you tell me, hey, Pemex's contracts, look, in this House there is witness to all the things that were said: first, that there were no contracts, and secondly, by paraphrasing some socialist leader, that the fleet's one was "a small boat". Look, Your Honor, the fleets, that of Barreras-Vigo left for Mexico, and that of Navantia is finishing its construction, 300 million euros, three million hours of work. And this looks like a fiasco to you. Contracts to renew the smaller fleet. Freire, contract for the design package, materials and equipment for three multi-purpose ships. Armon, design and supervision and technical advice of sixteen trailers. And a barrier presence, yard that was in liquidation process. Too bad no German businessman would want to take over Barreras, gentlemen! So I'm pleased with your question, for several reasons: the first one, because you start to believe in the outer port of the Crown; the second one, because you are interested in the world of business. And do you care about the workers in the port of Marín? Are they interested or not? 63% of the goods in the port of Marín come from Ence. What do we tell the workers at the port of Marín, Your Honor? What do we tell the Reganosa workers in the Ferrol River, Mugardos? Your Honor, what do we tell the workers of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u27	...PSA-Peugeot-Citroën, when you were against which you could expand your facilities? Look, Your Honor, I'm glad you're worried about the outside port of the Crown. Do you know what worries me most about Pemex right now? Let Navantia deliver the fleet in time. You know why? Because it's out of date right now and, as a result...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u29	Your Honor, I think you and I should be worried first about meeting the contracts signed. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u31	He was coming. You said we knew everything about you, we didn't know everything, we discovered something today. We found out that you were Pemex's public relations, it was not the delegated council, it was the public relations, which is responsible after justifying why it is or why it is not from companies. We always said that: you couldn't make that kind of ads, you couldn't get that kind of a bunch of ads, just because they didn't depend on you. Let's say it now and say it first. What changes your speech is you, because you were pointing out as a bit of your own that you can't defend now. And instead of asking for explanations to those who made promises to you, all he does is apologize to them. So we find it very nice to apologize now at the price of the cru, but that was already known at the time when those commitments were signed. And yet you sold as your own in the 2012 election campaign, then sold in 2013 and 2014, again in the 2016 election campaign a series of promises that couldn't be fulfilled, because they didn't depend on you, but it introduced itself as a guarantor of that compliance, because it was the person who could influence to do so, because it was the person who could bring that investment to Galicia, because it was Galician militant. For Galician militants escape the companies in their hands, and we discovered that whoever was called to be a deputy adviser remained in a simple public relationship, charged with justifying what is often unjustifiable, which is the use of something that does not depend on you as if it were an own electoral achievement. And, therefore, you are missing your word. People have trusted you, but you're cheating a lot of people, and we've only been there for three months. Pemex is an example. AP-9 is another example. The inability to face up to a unanimous decision by the Galician Parliament is an example. The inability to show the strength to demand that a work like AVE end in time, in the time that you yourself did and modified over and over again because you knew that you wouldn't let it happen within the deadlines that you yourself would impose on the later modified ones. You have made many words, many promises, and now you're seeing that your promises are better worth your political weakness and your inability to take advantage of the political weight of our country where it is needed, whether by companies making them pass as their own when they are not, be in front of their own government beyond Padarnelo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u32	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u33	He says that I already knew that the price of the cru would evolve from $114 the barrel to $34 the barrel five years later. Mr. Villares, welcome to the business world, but please be a little more serious. Because when you take the operating account of all the world's oil tankers and the investment plans of all the world's oil tankers, you find yourself not to be blamed by Mr. Feijóo. If Repsol invests less, Mr. Feijóo doesn't have it; if BPI invests less, if Fine invests less, if Galp invests less, Mr. Feijóo doesn't have it, Your Honor. If the shipyards in Galicia, which used to make ships for the oil tankers, are now moving to make ferries, or to make fishing boats, or to make tugs, or to make military contracts, Your Honor, it's because the world of oil has fallen from the point of view of investment as never in history in the last ten years. Look, Your Honor, when you talk about the outer port of the Coruña, you know that Pemex constituted an aval, and that aval cost money, and it costs money, and kept him down for four years. Does that mean he was interested in making the investment? I suppose, Your Honor, because you pay an avalanche for nothing, as you can imagine, no one does. When Pemex is with negative results of more than $40 billion, what do we say, Your Honor? Make use of your political approach. Look, Your Honor, I suppose this sentence will be a joke. Your Honor, what this company did was to constitute an avalanche on the outside port of the Coruña... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u34	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u35	...to reserve a space to make an investment, downstream it kept for four years. Your Honor, 300 million euros, three million hours of work in Galicia, do you think you're kidding? When Navantia was seven years old without making a contract and finally got a contract seven years later, do you think that's not keeping an eye on the country's interests? Your Honor, when Barreras was in liquidation, raising Barreras, making a fleet, delivering the fleet, 150 million entering Barreras and Barreras about to sign other contracts, will you look like a fiasco? I'll keep working for my country, Your Honor. With you or without you, Your Honor, I will continue to work for my country and always face my country, because I think it's my commitment. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Nothing told me about the port of Marin. What's wrong? That the people who work in the port of Marín aren't from the Coruña, Your Honor? Does the port of Marín have no companies, which depend on that port of activity of those companies, which you want to close? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, aren't the people who work in Reganosa from the Coruña? I know, Your Honor, it's from Ferrol. Look, Your Honor, and the people who work in Citroën in Vigo don't you deserve respect from In Marea? Your Honor, there are two fleets that are bigger than this Parliament, you go to see them, there's only one chance left, that of Navantia, the other has already gone to Mexico, Your Honor. By the way, it's much better to see the fleets instead of talking about what they tell you. Because seeing the fleet means that this president of Galicia's board — I'm head of commerce in Galicia, yes — will defend his country anywhere, and I'm going to risk all over the place Yes, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Among other things, Your Honor, there will be two fleets sailing through the world's oceans thanks to the efforts of this country and because of what this country believes in its people. By the way, Your Honor, I didn't tell you a minor thing: what else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u36	Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u37	...I'm worried right now is to deliver the fleet in time, because we're already out of date. So on what you depend, Your Honor, help Navantia — I don't doubt to finish it —...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u39	...it ends in time, because if you don't, you're going to ask me -- I suppose -- why don't we hand over the fleets we got for Pemex and Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u40	We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. Da Paula Vázquez Verao's interview with G.P. of En Marea, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to effective wage equality between men and women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u41	You have the floor to Mrs Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning. This House is not as small, not as large as a fleet, either, but at last it impresses a little for the first time. Good morning to all and to all. In Marea, the legislation began, as you know, with employment initiatives, recalling, for example, those 113,000 jobs destroyed in Mr Feijó's two legislates. More than 113,000 jobs are said soon, right? And so we will continue to work for Galicia, for our country, as the president of the Union said, bringing here the working reality of Galicia, which, as you know, is more precarious than the rest of the state. And I would like, Mr. Counsellor, to keep that data you've been given here in this House, that almost half of the working class in Galicia is in a precarious situation. By analysing the wage evolution between 2008 and 2014 — which is the latest data published by INE — the average wage rose in Galicia by 5%, from €19,156 to €20,196; however, we well know that the averages hide reality. Average wages — you know — people under 35 are still stagnant at pre-crisis levels, EUR 16,169 in 2008 and EUR 16,312 in 2014. But it's just that, in addition to this wage freeze suffered by young people, something will have to do with -- and we'll talk about it later -- emigration and the lack of demographic weight, which I think yesterday didn't want to relate to this situation, but besides -- I said -- because workers aged 45 to 54 also saw their average wage reduced by 0.6%. And according to the INE's quarterly labour cost survey, the average payroll in Galicia in 2015 increased by 0.4%, up to EUR 1.775.83 gross per month with the payments prorated. However, in the state -- and this is a constant -- it increased four times as much, 1.7 percent. This data — if you have been told here in this House, in this plenary session itself — shows that Galicia maintains itself as the fourth community with the lowest average wage, the fourth community below. Besides, I said the averages disguise reality. The most expensive wage earners in Greece are those who work in the industry, 35 percent more than those who do services, with payrolls — the averages of €2,247, compared to around €1,658. And this wage gap between the wages of both sectors continues to increase, the difference has not ceased, as in 2015 wages in the industry rose by an average of 4.2, while in the service sector they decreased by 0.8. In the construction also the salary increase was 1.7. But it is because — we return to these media that hide reality — more than 300,000 people employed in Greece, 31%, receive wages below the minimum inter-professional wage. So, anyway, with this data, it is perceived — if — that the average Greek wages rise in all sectors. How is it then explained the wage loss of the working class in Galicia? For, according to the INE, they will know, the reason why, given a loss of wages from the working class in Greece, this rise in the average wage is due to the increase in the salaries of managers, professionals, technicians and technicians from 2008 to 2014 in EUR 2,000, while the administrative and auxiliary staff, operators and operators of machinery, unskilled workers, lost wages or maintained the same as in 2008, and these worst-wage sectors were also the ones most punished by the destruction of employment. But in addition to this small increase in wages in general, the labour costs in Galicia, as supplements for sick leave, compensation, i.e. the total cost per worker for the company, fell in Galicia by 0.3%. Again, if we compared it to the state, the increase was 1.2%. And, of course, we have already said so in this plenary: not only that of 2012, the labour reforms and the policies of the evil so-called austerity were at the expense of the working class in Galicia. But if this reality is hard, this reality of our country's employment, it's even worse for women. On November 25, Marea registered several initiatives aimed at ending the inequality and discrimination of women in various areas, because we know that the most brutal form of discrimination, which is feminicide, is based on a system of domination relations over women, secular discrimination. And one of the contemporary facades of this discrimination is wage inequality, the gender wage gap, which in Galicia is represented by that 23.4% that women charge on average less than men. Furthermore, this wage gap in Galicia has increased by two points since the beginning of the crisis; i.e., the average annual wage of the Greek workers is €22,505, almost 5,000 above that of the Galician workers, almost 5,000 euros. In this way, a Greek woman would have to work 85 days more a year and in a 36-year-old working life to retire to the 65 suppose that she would have to work a 45-year-old woman to match her colleagues. In addition, as I said, wages were lower in the service sector, 85% of the women employed in Greece work in this sector. I mean, we're faced with a complex reality, a reality that also implies that women, the cost of women's working hours is 11.39 euros, that of the Greek women; it's, by the way, the lowest salary in the state after Cantabria, we're second in line, compared to 13.61 euros/hour in the case of men. To this, we have to add -- you know -- that daily reductions, surpluses for family care are mostly taken by women. It is also necessary to add — if you have commented in this plenary — the poverty of monomantal families, which reaches 53% of these types of families. Or also the precarious conditions of many public workers, who, by the way, keep their wages frozen in these budgets. Then, to finish, we will also say that this wage discrimination, unfortunately, if you suffer all your life; in unemployment benefit, 18.2% lower for the Greek women than for your colleagues, or in retirement, with almost 200,000 retired Welsh women who earn an average allowance of 618 euros a month, 38% less than retired Welsh women. In addition to the lowest pensions in the state, then in Galicia we have the poorest workers in the state, the poorest retirees in the state, a gender gap that increases. So, we consider from In Marea that, in the face of this material poverty of the working class, specifically of women, it must be an absolute priority of the Board to put measures on the table that end with this discrimination. We know it's a complex reality, it's not going to be solved with a law or more papers, not even with the laws that are in the last decree that has been published, not even with the initiatives that we're going to present to you from En Marea; I also say this: not even with those that we can bring here to this Parliament. We know it's a reality that settles in centuries of discrimination, but we consider that number one of the first Union of Galicia must be priority. And besides, we want to relate it, because yesterday it gave us the feeling that they didn't want to relate the Greek demographic loss to this reality of material poverty in the working class, nor did they want to relate to emigration, it's like this country had a biblical curse. And no, there are some material conditions that make youth and the people of old age to have children and daughters emigrate and that make women unable to be free to have children. I mean, we don't need demographic dynamization -- and I quote it, because that's what they call this program -- but what we need is a plan to bring back young people. We saw yesterday that they were not interested in a fair distribution of services in the territory to compensate for this lack of population in the interior, or in the implementation of measures, launched by all the mechanisms that the Union has to recover and create quality jobs. I mean, it's like they want to load us on women's wombs that eager demographic recovery; and no, they don't, they have to give us the chance to choose. Therefore, in view of this material situation of poverty of the working class, especially of women, I ask you, Mr. Conde, if you have an incentive plan for the creation of qualified work based on R & D+i and recruitment of young people, which could alleviate that immigration to which we refer; if the Board is willing to open a negotiating table with the trade unions and the employer's representation to adopt agreements that would already allow the recovery of the Greek wages, to achieve at least the state average, and to fight against the precarious labour; if you are going to negotiate with the legal representation of workers and public workers the improvement of your working conditions; and if the Government is willing to convene, through the Galego Labour Relations Council, the employer and the most representative trade unions in the territorial sphere to promote a collective negotiation of the Galician field. This is because, as you have seen, the differential with respect to the State is negative in all indicators. And I specifically ask you, Counsellor, what measures will prompt the Government, in this collective negotiation of the Greek field to which we refer, to achieve effective wage equality between men and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u43	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. You have the floor now, the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, first of all, to bring the surprise to you for your intervention, because your question is a specific question about the situation of collective bargaining in the labour market and effective wage equality, and you made an intervention which is an approach to the whole employment policy, the whole industrial policy. And, therefore, I will try to respond to all aspects, but I already say that from a specific inquiry into effective wage equality between men and women you have gone through the whole employment policy, through all industrial policy, through the entire economic policy of the Government. In any case, as you can imagine, this clear government is working and is its first concern not only for employment, but for the quality of employment, but also very specifically for equal employment, promoting and watching at all times for equal opportunities. So I appreciate the interpellation, because it will allow me in this House to remember all the performances that the Galician Union has already put in place and all the performances that the Galician Union is putting in place to achieve, indeed, greater equality between men and women also in the wage field. This inequality, Your Honor, and you have made reference, is not a specific problem of Galicia. This situation, unfortunately, is a structural problem, which does not depend on ideology. I regret your reference to the demographic policy of this government, which will continue to advocate demographic dynamization, and that you link the policies of demographic dynamization with women's ability to choose and freedom, I think you simply have not read the Government's demographic plan; when you read it, if you want, we can discuss it; but, of course, make here demagogy and ideology I think it doesn't proceed in this case. In any case, what I'm telling you is that what we're worried about is to keep taking steps, and we're taking steps. Galicia, Your Honor, is the fifth autonomous community with a lower wage deviation between genres, and we are more than two points better than the state average. We have to improve, but when you make reference -- and so you started your intervention -- to which we are in a much more precarious situation than in the state, I tell you specifically, in terms of wage care, we are in a better situation, in particular two points better than the average state. And, indeed, in terms of wage structure we are decreasing, Your Honor, the wage gap with Spain. We will have to logically intensify that decrease, but that is the data, and there is a clear trend towards the recovery of the wage increase that is being agreed on in the various conventions, which increased from 0.52 % in 2014 to 0.82 % in 2015 and up to 0.88 % in September 2016. So there's an improvement, which can also be seen with the data, which is insufficient, but which marks a clear trend. As you know, Your Honor, the law prohibits inequality and therefore conventions cannot include any kind of discriminatory clause, and the work of the Union, logically, is to follow and monitor that situation. But the truth — and that is unfortunately reality — is that we still face clear situations of inequality. That's the diagnosis, that's the reality, and so we have to act. And the Government and all groups have the responsibility, first, to raise awareness of society. I believe that this is a co-responsibility shared by all groups, also by the Government logically, and the Government has a more direct responsibility, logically, in the promotion of employment, in the inspection of work, in order to effectively comply with the regulations, and also in a social dialogue between the different interlocutors with greater commitment, between trade unions and entrepreneurs, as you point out, and that it is in advance that we agree with that approach. And, as I told you, we're promoting that female employment, we're promoting gender equality, we're doing it with concrete actions. We since 2009 -- to give you a reference -- 55% of all aid for encouragement and recruitment was to use women -- 55% of all aid for this government since 2009. And in 2017 we will continue to intensify that positive discrimination towards female employment. Why? Because, firstly, they will have a greater intensity of aid to women's contracts, in front of other collectives; and, secondly — which is a measure that I have already transferred to the appearance of budgets and that I will again insist on it — because it seems particularly relevant to me. We're going to include in the valuation criteria a higher balance ratio between men and women in their staff. So on our own valuation criteria, we're going to work to ensure that, in fact, this equality between men and women has clearly positive discrimination for women. And secondly, in addition to this positive discrimination, we are strengthening business equality plans, because companies have a very important responsibility to actually achieve greater equality. And so we've increased 28% of the budget of the aid we give to companies. And as I told you, we're working with the Labour Inspectorate, because the Labour Inspectorate has to act, it has to act with the annual inspection plan and it must also act on the demand of the various complaints that may be filed. This year, 229 proceedings were already planned aimed at the pursuit of discrimination on the basis of gender, and all the claims brought to the Inspectorate itself were dealt with. And, as you know, we also urge the Galego Labour Relations Council to set up what we believe should be the basic lines for an inter-professional framework agreement on equal opportunities for men and women, an agreement that we find essential, in which this government will be working with the Labour Relations Council and which we will certainly promote. Finally, Your Honor, we continue to work, and in 2017 we will push for more measures, we will develop a women's employment plan, because we understand that women must be supported in achieving that space within the labour market. There's a clearly priority roadmap, we want to promote women's inclusion, balance their participation in all sectors, and certainly encourage the development of their professional career. And all of this, logically, as you can imagine, in a clear business bet context, bet on employment and bet on industry. I think it's very good that you come here to say what is the policy of R & D of this government, industrial policy. I've already transferred it to the budget show. We bet on innovation, we bet on Industry 4.0, we bet on Rozas, we bet on the aviation sector, we bet on natural gas, we bet on Reganosa, we bet on Ence, we bet on Elnosa. Where is your group's position on industrial policy, on innovation? Because if I were to follow all the proposals you put forward on industrial policy, unfortunately, Mr Sánchez — which is so gesticulate and which he likes to hang on the benches — because unfortunately Galicia would lose 15,000 jobs. What is your approach to industrial policy? Ours is very clear: bet on quality employment, bet on knowledge, bet on innovation, bet on Industry 4.0 and therefore bet on quality employment. And that's where your group will find this government, open to dialogue, dialogue to identify the best opportunities for all the Greeks and the Greeks. And I logically already tell you that in the matter of equality, in the matter of equal opportunities, this government is acting. The results are marking a positive trend, still clearly insufficient, but our responsibility will continue to be marked by that positive discrimination, by continuing to work for the equality of men and women, and also for that ever-increasing pay gap. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u45	Thank you, Counselor. Replica roll, Mrs. Vázquez Verao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u46	Well, of course, at Marea, we're also going to keep talking about this issue, which is one of the most important issues we're going to be concerned about during the legislation. But what I wonder about is that all these measures did not give the effective result as we are the second community — I repeat — that we now have the worst paid workers in the whole state. I don't mean that we had a higher or lower wage gap than the rest of the state, but here, in our country, that gap has increased two points since the beginning of the crisis; that is, all that has been done is not enough. I also like to say that they will continue to bet on all these measures, but the reality is that in the budgets submitted for 2017 — as mentioned here in this plenary — employment promotion programmes for 2009 are falling in real terms, taking into account the evolution of prices by more than 50%. And I would also like to point out that they have also withdrawn funds from the equality action programmes, compared to the budgets since 2009. I'm one of the programs that most fall into action for women's equality, protection and promotion. I'd like to read this specifically: 87% fall from 2009 in real terms; it's one of the worst programs. I also ask you why you're withdrawing funds from these programs. Anyway, one thing is to say the intentions and another thing is that it settles in the budgets. And he was talking about the Inspectorate. We, from En Marea, of course, claim that the Labour Inspectorate must have much more funds and must be transferred here, to Galicia, having full powers in that matter. Also about the public workers, to whom I also refer, who also suffer the precariousness of work, in these budgets, there is no commitment to the recovery of everything lost, because one thing is that they recover the specific complement of the extra pay, which they have to do -- it's not a government grace -- but they keep their wages frozen, and at the same time -- they have been told in this plenary -- while the Government increases the salary by 7%, the workers and the public workers keep their salary frozen. I don't really like this debate about rising or decreasing wages, but I didn't open it, the People's Party opened it in 2008 or 2009. They remember when Cuba's chupitos, which Mr. Tellado said yesterday, related the crisis to the chairs, to the Audis. That's a real demagogy. I don't think the crisis is going to go any better or worse, 7% more of the cost of this government, which, by the way, is already becoming the state's seventh most expensive, when wages are the lowest quarters in line. But I understand that the working class, the public workers specifically, are in this debate, because they feel that this increase will not match their working conditions. That's why I mean that. Fifty percent of the recruitment aid he said to use women and he pointed out a number of measures that we'll be watching and told me he was in line with my proposal. So I understand that they will convene the Galego Labour Relations Council and bring about measures that lead to effective equality between men and women. I do not cease to relate this poverty specifically for the women of Greece — 5,000 euros less than their fellow men — to the situation of the population of Greece. I'm not going to demagogy. How do you intend to live with the minimum interprofessional wage and start the adventure of having a family? How do you expect them not to relate the emigration of older people to having children and children to work precariously? Yesterday it seemed like it was disconnected and actually in its plan, which told me we didn't read the Plan this demographic — I have it here — the demographic dynamization plan, it's significant that we don't mention the high Welsh emigration anywhere when analyzing the Greek demographic structure. Nor does it give me much hope to see that in his Agenda 20 for Employment, neither in the diagnosis of threats nor in the weaknesses mention the gender pay gap. This gives me a lot of concern. That is why we are bringing this question, so that we can begin an agenda to bring measures here to this Parliament, which I have already said is not even the measures brought in Marea will be sufficient to address this problem. That is why we are opening a great dialogue — I take the floor — not just here, but with all the agents involved in employment, so that this effective wage equality can be achieved between men and women in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u47	Thank you, Mrs Vázquez Verao. Close the debate on this appeal, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Vázquez, allow me a small comment, because it moved you that your first intervention is to broaden the spectrum of the employment policy debate, in the field of industrial policy, and in your second intervention, I have already moved the debate to the Business Council and the Social Policy Council. I'm glad you want to talk about public workers and population policy, but I understand that the priority in this case is to talk about employment. Indeed, I greatly appreciate that position of sharing initiatives to logically improve the Government's own capacity for initiative. We will have opportunities, in this legislation, precisely with the debate in this Chamber of the new Galician Employment Act, which I believe will be a very appropriate and appropriate framework for giving priority to concrete actions to the groups who are most concerned about the situation of the labour market, such as women, as are the young people and how long-term unemployed — I believe they are very important aspects — and also, logically, how to continue reducing their own temporality, precarious employment, which, in fact, will be one of the objectives of this new Employment Law. I've already said that I think we'll have to move that debate and I'm glad of your position. Just as we will continue to work on this case at the Galego Labour Relations Council for this framework agreement on equal opportunities for men and women. And all of this, logically, in a clear context where we have to encourage employment creation policy. There's no job without a company. We have to make this clear: without companies there is no job, and therefore we will have to keep working in this direction. Budgets this year 2017 show an increase of 8.5%. As you know, and the priority of the Economics, Employment and Industry Council, and all the rest of the boards, will be to create jobs, to get to that creation of 20,000 new jobs, and above all to attract new investments and projects to Galicia. And in the area of employment, you know that's where budgets grow the most, 16.4%, and so we'll also have a chance to promote that quality job, that job on an equal footing. I think that's the way, and of course that's where we all have to find each other. The roadmap is clear, the logical will to arrive at agreements with the different groups is also clear, but I want to highlight today, Your Honor, that Galicia is moving forward towards equality. Clearly Galicia is marking a trend, where we are improving the position since 2008, both in terms of wage deviation and in terms of the evolution of women's own employment. I'm going to give you specific data: female unemployment has been reduced by thirty-seven months, thirty-seven months has been reduced by female unemployment, with an annual decrease — of the last figure we know of unemployment — of 8.10%. That's the reality, in terms of data. Just like more than half the decline in female unemployment, Your Honor, corresponds to long-term unemployment, which has to be a second objective, not only women, but women who have been unemployed for more than two years. So I think it's everyone's job. The trend already says that it is positive, insufficient but clearly positive, and of course our main concern in 2017 will be to make progress in economic growth, to move forward in job creation and, therefore, to give our workers opportunities and, logically, to make the labour market more and more equal; and that these opportunities between men and women are becoming more and more equal to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u49	Thank you, Counselor. Interpellation by D. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Italian Government on the prevention of the consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u50	To formulate the plea, Mr. Torrado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u51	Good morning. We are bringing to this House a debate that we consider extremely important and, unfortunately, currently, and even if it is mediated recently on some serious issues, it has not ceased to be present at any time, because it has been a long time. And let's bring this issue here to try to contribute to it's over and it's a problem that we can solve. We have two problems on this issue. In the first case, we have an obvious problem with the situation of consumption; a consumption of alcohol in minors who see their starting age reduced. Now we're talking about data that tells us that the onset of alcohol consumption is under the age of 14 — slightly under the age of 14 — which is an excessively early age, of course. We have problems associated with this. Some problems are more striking. They don't stop being serious because they're appealing, and they're not more so because they're more appealing, like some emergency incomes, severe ethyl cases in minors, and in some cases, that's yes, some sad cases, not happening in Galicia, but we all know, like what happened in the Community of Madrid with a minor who died because of an ethyl coma. We have other subtler problems, but they're equally harmful, or more, in the long term. There are ongoing studies that show the effect that early onset of alcohol causes medical problems of various types. So we're faced with a very serious situation in terms of alcohol consumption in minors. There are certain causes that I think it is very important to point out, and in which I think we have socially stopped less time. The first and most important thing is that there is social tolerance to alcohol consumption that does not exist on other substances, such as tobacco – I will talk about that – and that there is no other kind of drug. There's a serious and very important social tolerance. And it is important because this points out that guilt — as it were in some way — is not only — sometimes even less — in those who consume when they are younger, but in the context around them. There is one more problem, one more cause, one more, associated, that is positive expectation and no sense of risk; the null or very low perception of the risk of consumption by minors. Obviously, early onset is a cause of continued consumption. In some cases, some studies point to families that are destructured as a problem, although to a lesser extent what is commonly spoken when we speak in terms – and forgive me the expression – more vulgar; much less than other effects such as social tolerance. He said that we have a problem like consumption but there is another problem, which is precisely the social perception of the problem; I think we have a bad focus on the problem. There are false debates; two, in particular. First of all, we confuse the problem of consumption with the problem of intensive consumption in short spaces, which the English call binge drinking or what we call bottle. We're not talking about the same – although it's associated problems – when we talk about consumption in minors and bottle. Why? Because consumption is a problem in itself, and the bottle, in addition, may have another kind of problem. Here the situation is in which we often associate this debate erroneously and we are confused that the problem of consumption is basically a problem of public order. So neighbouring complaints, or attempts to resolve, are based on discussing the problems that the bottle produces in dirt, disorder, noise, and it seems that if we move away from those problems, they disappear. Looks like if we don't see a problem, it disappears. This I know is very common in the President of Government Mariano Rajoy, but we're not on that subject. So, even if we make it disappear, the problem doesn't go away. Even if we don't talk about it, even if we don't see it, it doesn't disappear. And there's another problem I think very important too, and it's just that, when we work on this subject, we do it from an age perspective. There is a false debate about the problem of consumption among minors and adults. I argued with the will of debate that it is the same problem, or even more, that there is any popular party in which a carp, a bar, and there are obviously excessive consumptions, where there are also remains of dirt, where there is also quite noise, quite noise -- by saying it somehow — are also bad examples for the future consumption of minors, but there we are not talking about a problem because we consider it, because of that social tolerance, less, when in fact the problem of consumption also has its source. So this isn't just a minor problem. Why do I say that? Because you're wrong to criminalize a generation, and this is a problem. Criminalizing a generation is supposed to attack them by their age, and sometimes it can be more a mitigating than an additional problem. I don't want to apologize to anyone about what he's doing, but I assume that alcohol consumption in minors is neither a problem nor a public order — although he's associated — or old — although he's associated with it. About this there exists—and this autonomous government in the previous legislation built a law, Law 11/2010—a law from which we socialists were against. Why? Why is it a law -- we said then -- insufficient and that would be ineffective, and I think reality will move them that we were right. I don't think the Government had built a law that would have been inefficient, but we warned about some things. We said, first, that this law, although it was based on two issues that we considered to be correct, regulatory interventions and educational actions, were unbalanced by the weight they had in that law. There was too much regulatory intervention and too much punitive intent, and little educational intention. Well based on the preamble of the law, quite well-founded, it is noted that with interest and support of the subject's acquaintances, but not developed correctly later in the law, and of course that educational action did not later develop in reality. Regulatory interventions are tools but they are not ends in themselves, and therefore we have a problem if we use them incorrectly. If we believe that by announcing sanctions we will avoid a problem, we are wrong. It's excessively punitive, and it also passes the powers to the municipalities. The responsibility lies with the municipalities: to monitor, to sanction, to control, and in this sense we are not providing — even budgetally — the councils of tools for this. We're putting together another competition, a delicate competition, but we don't give them tools for that. The same police officers have to do it, complaints procedures have to be done from the city halls, and we're not supporting them in this direction. Besides, let's be realistic, regulatory interventions are not done. Nowadays, a minor couldn't buy alcohol. However, what do we do when there's someone who, just after the 18th, does it in a gang where there's a lot of 17 guys? What do we do with that? It seems that by preventing — according to the law — buying alcohol from minors, we are solving the problem, but reality tells us that it is not. The reality tells us, moreover, that that law is in breach; and the reality tells us that alcohol is bought beyond the 10th of the night, though it cannot be bought. So we're considering very punitive interventions, but then we're not following up, and we're going to compete with the municipalities so they're the bad guys in the movie. Incomplete. And we also believe that there is no follow-up on this subject. As I said, educational actions don't exist. I think we can do an exercise of reflection and think about how many educational, pedagogical actions we know about the matter that they have really touched, because it really means they are not particularly voluntary. If we do voluntary actions on awareness-raising work, on the problems of alcohol consumption, we're going to have the problem that, probably, assistance to these actions is smaller, we're going to have the problem of low collaboration... so there's no real conviction about supporting this part of the law, and in that sense we've already announced and believe it's incomplete. Besides, we have to do it about the causes, precisely about that social tolerance. So we also demand educational actions about the population as a whole, not just about the minors, in order not to criminalize a generation. I set the example of tobacco law. I know you didn't like some political groups, or some political group, the anti-smoking law of that bad government, but you've got something quite interesting, and it's that today there's a social conscience against tobacco much larger than there was and that there's a much lower consumption, which, in addition to being socially good and fantastic medicine, is even economically profitable. That law was a good example of how to fight completely, without differentiating ages – although consumption is more painful and more worrying in minors – and doing so with conviction. I also wanted to remember that citizenship education, because I think some of the things they were saying weren't bad enough to talk about better people and better citizens, but I know that that's a somewhat lost debate. In any case, we believe it is important to reform that law. We believe it is important to address this issue with the conviction that it is possible. I am convinced that all Members, all political groups, will face this with the serenity that it is a problem that we must face among all. And I'm not leaving this problem as a minor, I don't take it, with all sincerity, but I think that if we have the responsibility to direct and build laws that regulate the situation, what we must do is properly, with the opinion of experts, with real knowledge, with the participation of all, and to make them effective, which even means budget allocation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u52	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u53	... – finished – that this year – as I have already been able to comment on last Commission 3 on Monday – I have not seen it anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u54	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torrado, of course, I would like to convey to you that we fully share your concern about the problems that alcohol consumption is causing in youth groups, especially when this conduct takes place in minors, but as you well say, not only in minors. It must be borne in mind that alcohol is the most extended psychoactive substance among minors, but it is not the only one. From the Health Council we are making every effort to try to curb this serious threat to our youth, both from the point of view of demand control and through prevention programs in all areas and supply control. In the content you haven't specified so much, but in writing if you've brought up a series of questions, and you say in one of them if the Union considers that the known data shows a worrying situation about the consumption of alcoholic beverages in Galicia in youth. Well, the data provided by the different information and surveillance systems, which have periodically analyzed this phenomenon for more than 20 years, expose a worrying situation, although in the process of improvement. Because of the difference in data it makes, I think we're improving. As the last published survey on the use of drugs in secondary education, the 2014 Study, which will know, 73.6% of the young people in Greece between the ages of 14 and 17 consumed alcohol in the last 12 months. A very high figure that, as we said at first, concerns us. However, these rates are 3.2 points below those of the rest of the state, where they are at 76.8%, and 5 points below those mentioned by the Galician youth in 2012. 46.8% of the students in Greece between 14 and 18 years of age, according to the 2014 Studies, admit to having made a bottle in the last 12 months, being less extended in our community than at the national level, which is 57.6%. The drunk rates in the last thirty days also follow a descending line, important in addition. It was 30% in 2010, when the law was passed, and it's now 20,9% in 2014. Another fact that makes us think that we're in the right direction is the increase in the mean age of the onset of consumption -- this fact I think you had it wrong -- because if you start at 13.9 years now you start at 14.2; a slight improvement, but take it still. It is important and worrisome to stress that 65.9 percent of the minors who wanted to consume alcoholic beverages in the last thirty days claim that they have achieved them themselves, not through a third, without having to resort to third people — as we said before — but also that case. Being the main shopping venues for bars or pubs, discotheques, supermarkets and hypermarkets. As for the perception of risk, only 6 out of every 10 students in Galicia think that taking five or six canes or drinks of alcoholic beverages at the end of the week can cause a lot or a lot of problems. It's still little for me, but it's true they're more aware of the danger of the Greek boys than the Spaniards; but it's still worrying. The number of acute ethical intoxication incomes in health centres reached its highest value in the years 1996-1997, with 16 incomes per year. However, this number is still high, and in 2015 it is around 11 revenue. The minors assisted by the 061 range around 400. That's stabilized, it's figures that if they're stabilized. He said that, even if you're better than other years, these data are still worrying, because they reflect a reality where the consumption of alcoholic beverages is still too normal in our society. Secondly, they also ask about the degree of compliance with Law 11/2010, about the results after that law. The assessment of the degree of compliance is positive, being aware that there are still things left to be improved. We're already working on a regulatory amendment, and here I can announce that we have a very old drug law and we're updating it. Update it not only by talking about alcohol, but also about drugs in general, but also about addictions. Topics that are emerging new such as, for example, the theme of the game — especially worrying in minors — that we want to introduce into the new law. We believe that the law, which is in force and in operation, has put forward a very important step in that it has defined clear regulation on the following aspects: preventive measures that must be put into operation — preventive —; the prohibition of alcohol consumption in minors; the prohibition of sale or supply to minors, including vending machines; direct sale between 22:00 and 9:00 to people of any age; the regulation of the inspector body and the sanctioning regime; the prohibition of advertising, promotion and sponsorship of alcoholic beverages — except the exceptions collected in the norm — the famous happy hour or three times two. All of this gave visibility and sent a clear and unequivocal message of consumption, which must be a zero consumption between the younger age and also recommended throughout the rest of the ages. We must continue to work, among other things, in the regulation of consumption on the public road, in the effective restriction of access of minors to alcoholic beverages, and in the denormalization, as you said, of the tolerance that alcohol consumption has in our society. I must also point out that the work of inspectors, both bodies and security forces as well as the inspectors of the Autonomic Administration, since the entry into force — which was February 28, 2011 — has been detected by more than three thousand infringements due to its failure to comply with it until December 31, 2015. Thirdly, we are asked whether the Government of the Council of Galicia is considering that a good work is being done in the execution of the law and whether there is a follow-up to this execution. As mentioned earlier, Law 11/2010 regulates the implementation of two types of measures: prevention measures and those related to the limitations of the supply of alcoholic beverages to minors. The implementation of the first group of measures implies the development of an integral preventive policy which must include activities in all areas. One that you didn't announce, and that seems fundamental to me, is the family. And, of course, school, community and, logically, health care too. In this sense, the Health Council has been co-financing and developing projects to prevent the consumption of addictive substances since 1994. Until 2012 it was done through collaboration agreements, and since 2013 through open invitations to grant in competitive competition regime. As a result of these aids, the Council collaborates with a number of local and non-profit entities in the development of preventive activities, not only alcohol, but also all kinds of addictive substances. In the current call, which covers activities from June 2015 to June 2017, 38 preventive projects are already being co-financed: 25 municipalities and 13 non-profit private entities. And interventions will take place in 126 municipalities, where approximately 61% of the population of Galicia live. With regard to measures aimed at reducing supply, on the side of the above-mentioned inspectoral activity, which has detected more than 3,000 infringements since the entry into force — as stated above — the Health Council informs and advises all concerned about the requirements laid down in the legislation on alcohol consumption, sale and advertising. In addition, the Order of 1 March 2012 regulates the marking of restrictions on the consumption, sale and supply of alcoholic beverages in commercial places. It also adopted Decree 126/2012, so it establishes and regulates the system of information on the consumption of alcoholic beverages in minors. And passed Decree 88/2014, so the sanctions substitution system imposed for non-compliance with Law 11/2010 is regulated. In addition, we are going to create a multidisciplinary working group — it seems fundamental to us, and I believe that the honourable Member also has that sensitivity — where the Education Council must be, the anpas, the Fegamp representing the municipalities. We don't try to blame the Town Councils, but rather that the Town Councils collaborate on something so socially important. Also associations, NGOs and people who are directly involved. And logically, we're going to be in collaboration and coordination with the Ministry of Health, where the new headline announced only a few days ago that there would be a new law to avoid all this kind of social problem. I'll be in the next few weeks, before the end of this year, with the minister, and, of course, we'll do something special, like a special coordination, trying to bring the problems we know here, which we've analyzed here, which we're detecting here, to the level of state legislation. I still have things to say, but I think we still have an extra time and we can then count on measures that I think are very good for all citizens, and especially for minors. But as the honourable Member said, and we all believe, we have to make society to have zero tolerance with all drugs. Drugs more or less introduced into our society and those that are being introduced in recent times and of those that we don't know too much about them yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u56	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u57	Yes, Counselor, we agreed on some things, no doubt we shared some. It'll allow me to be a little more demanding. The data I gave you -- if I don't remember bad, but I'm going to consult the reference again -- I think it's the other way around: it's down the start age. I quote recent works published this year in international magazines. I'm saying academic, not institutional, but I think they're quite well-founded in this case. And I also quote them from working groups that have their roots here in Galicia. We have leading international groups that work precisely on this situation, on causes and psychosocial analysis. In the Faculty of Psychology itself there are two working groups: one in the neurological aspect and the effects of consumption; and one probably more focused on contextual issues and addiction treatments. Anyway, we're talking tenths. I think we share that age is worrying, so in that sense we face the same problem. It's true that there's a problem -- it's obvious -- with the bottle itself. I insist that we don't just stick to a generational question, because, if we talk only about minors, it seems that we do this Rajoy tactic — I'm sorry to say again — that we hide the bigger ones and so it doesn't seem... I think they're equally worrying because they're an example. In the end, the conditioning and learning of minors often comes from the image they have in the house or in the context, and the bigger ones are also worrying. I'm saying it because there are specimens, in addition, that we have to give. It's very hard to go out and do a survey -- I went to set an example, I wouldn't have happened to myself -- a criticism of the university bottle, in Alameda in Santiago, and then I fell asleep in front of a traffic light for going into sad conditions. I mean, it would be very sad and ineffective. I guess that's never gonna happen in this country. So, I think we should not hide that there is a reality and that there seems to be a tolerance, because since we don't blame anyone for this sort of thing... It is true that there may be some improvements – even I recognize it in the interpellation, there is some improvement, some better data – but I think they are too shy, too, because we have been carrying a law that has been running for five and a half years – and we consider that improvements are very low, and therefore there is a problem arising from that particular inefficience of the law that we initially consider. I certainly talk a lot about the causes, of course the family; but beyond. I mean, if sometimes we don't even agree on the concept of family...! I make it a little wider. I spoke of an integral matter. Family, environment, friends, of course, and school, but — let's say — it is necessary to be comprehensive because there is tolerance in the context and because it is not an age problem. I insist again, we don't criminalize a generation. He quoted a lot of data, cited a lot of regulatory applications, I agree with all the initiatives that are being made. I am more supportive of doing less and being effective, because — I insist — I think the improvements are few and because, in addition, the whole reality of all the data we are quoting is there, but the reality in the street is another. You mentioned something. It's true, nowadays the minors still can buy, no one tells them anything — more or less, being a bit exaggerated —; they can consume, there's consumption on the street, everybody knows where to consume. And to me, in myself, I think we need to educate on the consequences that it has. Because I do believe that someone who's 17 and a half is as mature as what he's 18 and a month old, and, therefore, we can't attribute to one capacity of reasoning or decision-making that the other doesn't. So that's why I'm involved in the non-generational issue. And, therefore, we must assume the reality that exists. And we don't -- I insist on this -- responsibility to the municipalities; or even, lastly, to someone who, working in precarious conditions behind a bar at 4:00 a.m., has to walk asking someone to see if they can or can't serve him. That's ineffective. We can say that we regulate this and feel calm, but it's ineffective and the problem will continue to exist. So let's do things that are effective, and the most effective thing is pedagogy. And we believe that the pedagogy on this matter is based well on the preamble, but it is not well developed. And we believe that it is not developed in real programs, that they do not have, in addition, budget games and in which there can even be a tennis game about who the responsibility — the municipalities, the board... We don't pass it on to non-governmental organizations, which can provide and help, but can't be responsible for not doing so. There's a legal vacuum about who's dealing with teaching the problems that exist. You mentioned multidisciplinary groups: anpa, schools, education. Again we're talking only about a generational spectrum, let's do it in everyone. I think we need to do it at all. I believe that we need to deal with this problem with a dimension, so we will bring to this plenary a motion making some proposals on the improvement of the law and we are open to redebating the law in order to be able to include in that sense and even talk to the number of experts — who are there — that are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u58	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. The Health Counsellor closes the debate on this appeal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u59	Thank you very much, President. Without an audacity, Mr. Torrado, I believe that — as one member of his group said yesterday — he was very serious when they joined a president of an autonomous community — President Rajoy's summons is out of place on such a serious issue. I honestly think we should avoid this kind of thing. I take, of course, the hand held because we also love it. I think we have to make adjustments in the law, especially because — I say — the Law on Drugs in Galicia is a lot of years old. And I think there are many new addictions that are in the field, that are in society, and still haven't arrived. Anyway, to tell you that the subject of statistics, although they are always indicative to me, the important thing is to work and work to improve the situation. In the 2014 Study — which is at the national level — it is a very serious study, a highly valued survey — the data that comes out of us are these. When they're bad, you have to keep them in mind, and when they're good, I think so too. But, as I say, we have to keep working. To also say that sometimes you said that the laws should not be completely punitive. I think they have to have a very important preventive part. This, the 2010 one, had clearly a preventive part. But then you value Zapatero's law, the anti-smoking law, which, of course, was quite punitive and we all recognize that the results were good because they significantly decreased consumption. So I think it's important. But, as I also said, prevention for us is very important. As you know, on the subject of tobacco, we have a non-punitive prevention campaign that talks about smoke-free homes, smoke-free classrooms and smoke-free beaches. So, I think it's good that we can do one thing and the other one, they're complementary. The health and education councils are moving forward — because you were asking about concrete actions, especially at the educational level — and I meant that the Education Council is playing a major role, not only in this, but in other matters, in the health field, which I know well. As I say, there are several prevention sets, included in the portfolio of services in the prevention of the Galician Drug Plan, and they are carried out through municipal prevention teams and non-profit entities. They include interventions adapted both to the level of risk of the student and to the level of his or her maturity. The process indicators used to evaluate the implementation and follow-up of programs show satisfactory results. As for its effectiveness, it's a field where it's difficult to assign specific effects to the various preventive programs developed. Anyway, as the selected programs accumulate abundant evidence of their effectiveness and have widely tested and validated strategies and contents at national and international levels, we understand that they are producing positive effects on our youth. I also asked whether we believe that the resources necessary for regulatory interventions involving the law are available. With regard to economic resources specifically intended for the prevention of the consumption of addictive substances, among which alcohol receives special treatment, it has sent our council EUR 5.6 million for the six aid calls, covering a period from 2013 to 2017. We are currently drawing up the next call for grants for programmes to prevent addictive disorders, where the prevention of alcohol consumption by minors, in addition to those related to the pathological game, especially through the Internet, will be prioritized, which is something that is currently being introduced into our society and we have to be — I believe — very vigilant — very much on this issue. Finally, saying that alcohol consumption by minors is not a problem generated by them, it is a complex problem associated with the tolerance of this consumption by adults, and if certain attitudes are not changed, the struggle will be long. In this way, the solution necessarily goes through legislative measures such as Law 11/2010 — as I say, updated to current situations — supplemented by others at both the state and the local level. But also because of the necessary involvement of families, as we said; the commitment by distributors of alcoholic beverages in allowing them to have access to them; the development by local entities of active health promotion policies, along with measures to control the access of minors to alcohol, both to avoid their acquisition and to prevent so-called bottles. In general, the cooperation of all — including this Parliament — is a subject in which I think it is desirable for us to reach a consensus. Of course, I welcome your group's tending hand in order to be able to work, so that we can make a regulation that extends the current spectrum, and that we can give the whole society a serious problem that is there, and that, of course, we all have to solve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u60	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Abel Fermin Fermín Losada Álvarez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and Mr. José Manuel Pérez Seco of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of the Government of Galicia in relation to energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, I'm glad to have stopped my comrade Julius Torrado, because, in connection with the initiative, that the call of attention about Rajoy seemed inappropriate to the counsellor, he had thought of talking about Aznar and "live him wine", that so satisfactory institutional statement in Quintanilla de Onésimo Redondo. [[Applause]] So, the truth is that being so accustomed to hearing about Zapatero day and night in this Parliament, this hypersensitivity of the People's Party skin I would say it's almost obscene, I'd say it's almost obscene. But well, I'm sure fit. Let's go to energy, poverty and business results. As we're talking about energy companies and we're talking about business results, I want to resume an energy company, which is Pemex, and some interesting remarks that were made in this plenary session at the beginning of this session. In fact, Pemex bought 51% of Barreras for 5.1 million euros and just billed for 170 million euros a fleet. That means 51% of that billing is 86.7% and means that, with a 6% return rate, it would have recovered its investment. After yesterday's box, the day before, we're seeing that Galicia for some is a real land of promise in terms of profitability of financial investments, a real land of promise! I'm speaking in this case of Abanca and I suppose that of Pemex, if it's true that that billing has already occurred, it's paid. And it's true that the fleet is no longer in Vigo's creek, I suppose it's on its way from Mexico. Energy poverty. Energy poverty, Counselor. There is a new European framework which radically questions all the energy policy of a bad industrial minister, Mr Soria, who was absolutely against what were the lines of action of all the advanced countries. Because I want to remind you that the paralysing of renewables, which is the way Brussels says... By the way, surprisingly Mr. Arias Cañete, in a new fall of the horse via Damascus... the truth is that I am a true embassy from Syria, you. They're all day on their way to Damascus. Let's see they fall off the horse! Mr. Arias Cañete, who was applauding Rajoy's cousin who denied climate change, now leaves next to the Commissioner of Environment absolutely delighted to have renewable energy strategically prioritized. So this is an objective fact. But it's very lawful to change position. [[Applause]] In any case, it exists. It's also true that Rajoy's cousin, in addition to Seville's chair, now has perfectly yes, yes, I'll keep talking about Rajoy's cousin whenever I want and be in the use of the word. And if a member of the People's Party bothers me, I'm very upset about some more references to presidents of folk autonomy... so I'm going to keep talking about Rajoy's cousin. [[Applause]] I insist, if anyone bothers you, there are psychoanalysts. There are, there are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u62	No, but that point you know I'm especially... I don't like those points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u63	Well, there are clinical psychologists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u64	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u65	I was thinking about it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u66	No, but I don't like to link the debate in this Parliament with those issues, and you know it well. It's a special sensitivity to me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u67	The folklore of the president of an autonomous community elected by his citizens if he can connect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u68	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u69	Is that right? You all right?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u70	That's right. You can say that. That's what you can say. I'm fine.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u71	Your proverbial neutrality, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u72	No, no, I mean, I have nothing against that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u73	His proverbial neutrality.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u74	We're not going to argue, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u75	Well, well, let's not argue about it. In any case, there is a new European framework and there is an old history, which is the history of the energy price in Spain and of poverty and inequality. And I know that the price of energy in Spain was very high in 2007, very high. But the unemployment rate was 7.4%, Counsellor. Now the price of energy is higher and the unemployment rate in Spain is almost 20%. So, don't ever tell me about Zapatero, who I know, was a president... No, no, what can't be is that you can talk about Zapatero here whatever you want, and that a member of Parliament speaking about Rajoy is a matter that makes the sensitivity of the People's Party. Listen! either a little seriousness on everyone's part, or at least not making the ridiculous. In fact, the price of energy has grown. It is also true that — as you well know as Innovation Advisor — the introduction of new renewable technologies is always more expensive at first. So I'm not saying that explains everything, but of course, it explains some of that overestimation of the renewable energies in origin. The truth is, despite the reforms of that magnificent minister who had a tourist route that was Panama and the Dominican Republic in luxury hotels at the price of bargain... He was not denied, therefore, I suppose he slept there, which is very good. Getting those prices means it's an absolute genius. The truth is, the price of energy continues to rise in Spain. By the way, it continues to grow significantly in the last year. It's true that there have been some climate conditions, let's say it's adverse. But they also have to explain, if when there is no wind and there's a shortage of water rising the price, is that renewable energies are not as bad for consumers as they initially told us. Because what can't be said is that when there's a lot of renewable energy it's bad because it goes up the price, and the price ends up when there's a little renewable energy, which is what happened this past year, which, as we all know, has had an abnormal climatic behavior. For this price rise, which has increased energy to average consumption by 28% since April – I would like to remind you that the IPC is practically at rate 0 – is accompanied by the business results of the large electricity companies in this country. And I give you the 2015 data, I think the last time I gave you the 2014 data, so I'll let you be updated and I'll spare your advisors the job of looking for the data. Endesa, Iberdrola and Natural Gas had over 6. billion euros of profits in 2015. Spain has 46 million consumers. Germany has 81 million consumers. And the three big German electricians, who have an oligopolitic situation similar to Spanish, had losses exactly the same as the profits of Spanish companies. With which, I think that between the correlation, I don't say that causal — Mr Counsellor, don't examine me, or wait to answer me to examine myself — between tariffs — among the highest in Europe — and the business results of the electricity companies, there is some correlation. I repeat again: in order to approve the examination by this Member, I insist that causality can be discussed, but there is correlation. So we're going to the other side of the coin, which is the inequality and the financial exuberance of the Rajoy Government. Excuse me, Government Feijóo. In 2015, as you well know, they left without using the deficit limit — because it was necessary for Mr Feijóo to appear as leader in the public management of the People's Party in Spain — in about 0.13 % of GDP. That's about 90 million euros. Everything seems to indicate... something less, it's okay. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I thought it would grow much more of the German gross domestic product. This rule of three... I'm magnificent, you see. [[Laughter]] It gives the feeling that through the approved expenditure ceiling, they're going to be left out of running once again 0.1% of GDP. I mean, yes, they have a 0.6, and for now what was voted here was a 0.5, unless there's a parallel reality outside of this Parliament. What was voted here, and what was discussed here was 0.5. I don't know if your companion in Fairy told you anything else, but it was exactly that. Therefore, EUR 57 million more than — let us say — do not take advantage. Next to that we have — and I'm sorry to repeat the data, but I'm going to repeat it — an increase of homes without any income of 17% in the last year: third quarter of 2015, third quarter of 2016. EPA data or National Institute of Statistics, Eurostat type-approval, demand high-level figures: 17% increase. I'd like an answer to that. We have 76,000 people who have been stopped for more than two years. I don't know how many more than nine have been stopped, and they were already stopped when Mr. Touriño stopped being president of the board. That data doesn't collect the statistics, I'm very sorry. But, of course, 76,000 people who have more than two years of unemployment. Normally people, besides, with a certain age and a level of qualification normally low. Therefore, with difficult socio-laboral insertion. Faced with this, Mr. Counsellor, what Mr. Feijóo's government did was exactly an energy aid program via the enormously complex Internet — it is true that I am not very skilled at computer science, but obviously complex — that pure and simply does not solve the problem of energy poverty, the supply of both electricity and gas, and also water, of this vulnerable population; which is much though Mr. Feijóo tells us here that there were poorer people in Galicia in 2009. I understand you say it. By the way, I could transfer that yesterday also told us the history of emigration — or today, I don't know when it was —. Yesterday you published the Agency would tax the mobility data of the occupied. In fact, there are many workers in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as Mr Feijóo said. So, Counsellor, I'm the only one asking you is a political commitment that a serious, coordinated policy is going to be pursued within an integral plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u77	...to eradicate or combat poverty. A plan you voted against yesterday, by the way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u78	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u79	So I'd like to know what you have to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u80	Thank you. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, the truth is that this morning they're putting the thing quite difficult on me, because yesterday at an employment interview they talked to me about farm and they talked to me about social policy, and now you, in an energy poverty, talk to me about Banca, Pemex and talk about renewable energies, which is true that you can have an indirect relationship, but you understand that they put me in the situation... but I'll try to answer, especially. But most importantly, I'm going to start with the end, I'm moving that intention of the Government and the intention of the parliamentary group to actually work together to identify new measures, beyond what this government has already implemented, to deal with a very sensitive situation like energy poverty. And, therefore, we will have a framework, which is the popular legislative initiative, where we can identify these measures. And I have already transferred this position on the part of the Government to establish a coordinated policy, not only at the level of the parliamentary groups, but also at the level of the Government, which we will promote the collaboration of other governments, in particular of the councils. That's the way, because energy poverty doesn't know signs, energy poverty and vulnerable consumers what they need are answers, and so I think that in such a sensitive and complex problem, we actually have to work in that direction. I'm saying that we, this government, have been doing this since 2014. It's not a new situation, therefore, for this government, but we've been trying to give an answer to a reality and sensitivity to energy poverty for two years. And we have already established specific measures to alleviate that energy poverty, both through the social electric ticket, with which we have already helped close to 5,000 homes, as well as through help to avoid cuts in electricity supply, with which the Union has already supported about 900 homes. And, as you know, because I have had the opportunity to transfer it to the budget presence, to these two concrete measures, the social electric ticket and the order to avoid supply cuts, we will expand these measures this year to avoid cutting natural gas supply. We will therefore ensure that all energy supply of the most vulnerable families can be covered in terms of concrete assistance from this government. So we understand that this is commitment, meeting a reality, and we will therefore respond to these requests that may be made to us in the coming months and next year by the most vulnerable families. And that's why I told him that we are still open to work, to continue working both in this House and outside it to continue to identify more solutions to this issue, coordinated solutions from the point of view of co-responsibility by different administrations, and therefore that citizens have a concrete answer. They are tips that, by the way, have a clear view of government. And I want to highlight this morning because all the measures I've taken are inside a umbrella, which is Galicia's Social Agenda. So even though there are different departments of the Galician Union involved in the goal of alleviating energy poverty — I insist — they respond to the same government policy through this Galician Social Agenda. I think we can agree, Mr. Losada, that energy poverty is a complex issue, that it has many edges, but above all, that it has two very important sources that I think are the two about which to work, which are the income of families and the energy cost. I think we can agree on that diagnosis and, indeed, that is where we have to deal with it. These solutions, from a social point of view, are being addressed from the Government, because the Government, through this Galician Social Agenda, has concrete help to help the most vulnerable families. For example, Risga. As you know, Galicia's Social Integration Performance has as its objective precisely to address needs from an energy point of view. And there's another type of aid that the Government has, like that supplement for non-contributory pension holders and the rest of the help I've already transferred to it. So that's the way. And the complementary way to having a higher income is a policy of employment and therefore through employment policy, in fact, citizens have concrete answers. But let's go to the second axis, which is the energy system. You discussed here the situation of the energy system and I recognize that decision the Socialist Party made in 2009 to create the social bond, which was an important step at its time precisely to meet the Community's mandate to protect the most vulnerable groups. I would be grateful if you would recognize the People's Party that in 2013 we were able to improve that social bond, moving from that fixed content to a percentage count according to the billing. So, Mr Losada, we have worked together in the same direction and logically the social bond will be one of the areas where at the level of government we will have to identify measures by the political groups, so that the social bonus will also respond to the situation of energy poverty. But, as I told you, the problem of poverty is not only a problem of income, but also an issue of energy cost. And then, of course, we won't agree anymore. I am going to transfer very specific data to you, because during the last few years of the Socialist Government — it has referred me to the last four, not to the period 2004-2012, but to 2008-2012 — the electric bill of domestic consumers in Spain, Mr Losada, rose to 50% with the Socialist Government. And in the last four years, the price of electricity for the household consumer has fallen to 0.2% in Spain. That is the reality from the point of view of the evolution of energy costs according to Eurostat's data, which I think are in a position to share. And that situation responds to an energy policy at its wrong time. That's a reality, and it had to be corrected. The Socialist Party increased by 10 the tariff deficit and, logically, that situation had to be addressed. But I already tell you that we have to find solutions and, therefore, we have to keep moving forward in measures that this government has been implementing since 2014. And so that's where we have to work, seeing the operation of the electric ticket and the power and natural gas cut-off order that are already implemented and are giving concrete answers to about 6,000 families in Galicia. And from that point on, to move forward on the dialogue in this House, on dialogue with local administrations for their involvement and co-responsibility — not only in terms of information, logically, but also in terms of co-financing, in order to actually give a concrete answer. And we have the roadmap marked, we don't have to look for any roadmap. That roadmap is the processing of the popular legislative initiative in which we will have a good opportunity. And in that context, we're going to work. I think we just have to reach an agreement to contextualize the development of the popular legislative initiative. First, make decisions, measures, be adjusted by law, and I think that we can agree with the Socialist Group and the Government. And secondly, realistic measures that can be carried out through collaboration between the Galician Union and the municipalities themselves. I believe that this is the context of work and I hope that logically you will recover that speech from a party with government options and that, therefore, in such a delicate context as this one, we can reach consensus in the development of this popular legislative initiative and be able to continue to move forward to complementary measures that we have already put in place to give citizens solutions, especially to the most vulnerable citizens from the point of view of energy poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u82	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor on the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, the truth is, I don't know very well where to start. See, in fact, they took action in 2014. Given that they arrived in the Government in 2009 and found a Galicia desolate by all kinds of socialist and nationalist tornados, I'd like to know what they were doing for exactly five years. As a reflection period, it seems to the Committee on Boxes. I think he's here. The co-responsibility of different administrations seems very good to me. Let's see if it turns out that whoever has competence, which is the Union, is asking for municipalities to pay. In case. It's that there's some background, like in terms of metropolitan transport, in which it is so, and I don't want it to be repeated on issues of energy poverty as well. And, in fact, it's a complex theme that has to do with family incomes and energy costs. In the end, it gives me the reason, it has to do with exactly the financial results of electricity companies and it has to do with an economic model that leads to the fact that the unemployed population has income levels that do not allow them to escape poverty. I fully agree with you, you are dangerously approaching social democracy, be careful. Yesterday they voted against considering Risga a subjective right. Hey, hurry up! I've always thought Risga was the show... I appreciate the particular class, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, but the interrogation is directly with the advisor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u84	Please keep quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u85	Subjective right. Subjective means, therefore, that you are subject to an interpretation and therefore for me, for socialists or for the left, social integration is a subjective right, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. I'll report as much as you want. [[Applause]] So — I insist — it would be good for them to clarify themselves. The truth is that the rise in the last Zapatero government of 53% of the electricity tariff is a very high rise, it's true. I'm sorry I've been up since April this year by 28%, Counselor. It's going to turn out that in four years 53% is a lot and in seven months 28% is part of market dynamics. Of course, so let's see if we know... if we know perfectly what we're talking about, man! Social bonus. Indeed, the government of Zapatero has implemented it, improved it by the government of Mr. Rajoy. I am very concerned about one thing now, because it is true that the new energy minister seems to have a new heel, and we passed the social bonus of producers to all the marketers —350 companies —. All right, I'm just worried about one thing: that it turns into an indirect tax and that the cost of the social bond ends up going through, through prices, at which all citizens pay it, not depending on their income. And we moved on to the subject of the freeness of textbooks: via taxes, via taxes! I don't want companies to pay the social bonus, I want companies to pay taxes for their economic results, for 6 billion euros. And I know that Europe says it's possible, but it doesn't make it, it doesn't. [[Applause]] And I repeat again: a socialist government did it when the unemployment rate was 7%. And I'm not going to defend everything the socialist government has done, which probably went wrong; but, I insist, taxes, taxes on these scandalous business profits. And with that, the social bond is funded from the public perfectly, as you well know. There are 12,000 families living in chalks in Galicia; of them, 10,000 without odor. Year 2016: City of Culture, native Greek forest planted there, next to it. I say it because we have to frame the issues, because if not, it gives the feeling that we're talking about Yupi's worlds, and we're not talking about Yupi's worlds. I insist: 10,000 homes — I don't know if it's a subjective or objective right, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias — that have no odor. Then tell me, thank you, of course. [[Murmurs.]] And in terms of budget -- I understand the commitment of the government of Feijóo to energy poverty, but maybe he's wrong or maybe there's some game that got away, because it's true that it can also happen, and I'd like him to answer it -- last year for the social electric ticket there were 2,100,000 euros, and I just found 1,193.115 euros this year. The truth is that I'm surprised at the accuracy, I recognize that I was absolutely amazed at the ability of government budgeters to fine-tune Feijóo. It is approximately half the funds, or 60%, of the previous year. But that's right, the number of homeless homes is 17.7 percent more. So I think it would be all right if you took advantage of that deficit margin that gracefully granted to you by the Rajoy Government. It is true that in the latter case, with the help of the Socialist Party in Madrid. And, in fact, the data from the program "Energy efficiency and renewable energy", where this electric ticket is, inexplicably, because it goes down -- of the few that go down, it's true -- 15%. It's not bad for a year when the budget grows expansively, as you say.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u86	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u87	I'm going to finish, Mr. President. On the subject of the municipalities, I insist, all cooperation. But it won't be that the board invites and the municipalities pay, because I see the counter. And then I love the cooperation of all administrations. That's why Rajoy's government has brought to the Constitutional Court the Catalan Energy Poverty Act, in an exercise of approach to the Catalan problem. I'm not going to go in there, which isn't a subject that works for me, but I think if the way to approach administrations is by resorting to the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u88	Go finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u89	... finished, Mr President, because it does not seem to be the right way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u90	Thank you very much. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u91	Mr. Losada, we focus our discussions, because the Government has brought the law of the Catalan Government to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has sanctioned that it was indeed unconstitutional to the legislation that Catalonia wanted to establish so that companies would bear that cost, because an autonomous community cannot regulate aspects that affect the Spanish electricity system. And, therefore, what we cannot do — which is what I wanted to move you — is to do the same for us. We know what we can do and what we can't do. We did not fall into a mistake which is already settled by the Constitutional Court itself, and do not intend — if that is the intention I wanted to investigate — to bring to this House an initiative which the Constitutional Court has already said is unconstitutional. So I think that's exactly what I was referring to before, that we have to focus on issues and, above all, be realistic if we want to reach an agreement. But, look, I have to say it, because you're talking about the profits of companies. You'll forgive me, but in Spain you pay taxes, all companies pay taxes. I don't think he has any doubts. But, look, I'll give you two data. Because you ruled in Spain. It just looks like you guys haven't ruled. And the Galician Nationalist Block, which I'm going to refer to, supported the Socialist Party. Look, the Socialist Government was what installed in 2008 a power of 3,000 megawatts in photovoltaic panels, which were panels that had a cost seven times higher than the target that was marked and, therefore, derived, Mr. Losada, from a tariff deficit, which we are still paying, of 28,000 euros. So that's a reality. The second is that when they talk about companies, they have a little smell, a little smell, because you — the Socialist Party, with the support of the Nationalist Block Galego — have forgiven the electricians 3,000 million when they didn't want to claim too much for the costs of transition to competition. A little respect! And that's perfectly settled also in the courts. So, Mr. Losada, I sincerely believe that, if we talk about energy poverty, we're talking about a little serious. So let's talk about the problem citizens have and how we can move solutions to citizens. You haven't talked about the electric ticket, you haven't talked about the supply cut, because they're working well, Mr. Losada, they're working well. And we, in a week, guarantee a person that they want to cut the supply that doesn't cut his supply in a week. There is no system that I know in Spain that, automatically on an established regulatory basis, in a week you give that order so that you do not cut the supply to a person benefiting from a help from the Galician Union. One week, Mr. Losada! So I think we should also talk with a little bit of rigour from the point of view of what is meant by the administrative processing of the aid itself. Can it get better? No doubt. We have all the services of the Galician Union at our disposal. We've reached agreements with Caritas and the Red Cross. And I would be delighted to have the municipalities, all the municipalities of Galicia, collaborate in the processing of these aids. They didn't want to do it, but I'll be happy, logically, to incorporate all the municipalities and all the social services so they can help us give citizens answers. Mr. Losada, I was wondering what we did for five years. Well, we're paying 2,000 million euros that you left without paying -- I remember: a fictitious budget of 2,000 million euros -- among other things. We did a lot more, but one was that. Finally, Mr. Losada, if I move, as my intervention began, an invitation to dialogue, an invitation to consensus and, above all, an invitation to identify a new agenda of measures that will allow us to respond to citizens. And that means that, through this popular legislative initiative, we have a good opportunity to give new answers, to lay foundations for the future and, above all, for citizens to have in the Galician Union and in different administrations a clear answer to deal with a problem, which is the problem of energy poverty, where we have to work both on income levels and also on the evolution of energy costs at the national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u92	Thank you very much, Counselor. We move on to item 6 of the agenda, from questions to questions to the Government. Question by Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Bloc, on the assessment of the Greek Government with regard to the conventions signed by Galician Waters with the municipalities in the second quarter of 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u93	To put the question, Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u94	Good morning. The truth is, in these two months and the peak I've been in this Parliament, I have the feeling of living in a parallel world, in a sort of parallel Galician. And more today, that I come from Pontevedra and opposition groups have just announced a motion of undercover censorship. I'm not going to ask you, logically, about that question, but about the Galician Waters Conventions. [[Applause]] He said I have the feeling of living in a parallel world, in a parallel Galician world, because we live here in an absolutist majority regime. Mr President, at least that of this Parliament, that of this parallel Galicia, tells us that this is the best place in the world to be born. He said it here in parliamentary headquarters. It's the country of growth, of work, of well-being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u95	Mr. Bará, get to the point, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u96	I thought it was about the digital paradise of new technologies, but I see it's the traditional digital paradise, that of the finger. And they also use the Transparency Law to highlight opacity. And I refer to the conventions published by the Galician Waters in the DOG on November 3, 2016. I'm not going to tell you about the investments you're making, for example, on the Galician hydrological plan to try to remedy it, with a lot of slowness, by the way, with many pitfalls, the critical situation in which the laughs are, and other agreements they also have with the state to do infrastructure works in the cities. I refer to these 66 conventions signed with local entities in Galicia, which were published on day 3, fulfilling the Transparency Law, and curiously, of these 66 conventions, 56 were signed with councils governed by the People's Party. I don't know if the digital system of new and traditional technologies has been applied here. In any case, I would like to ask you what criteria are followed to decide the agreements and why this absolutely discretionary, escurantist, partisan and opaque use — by a lot of transparency law they say they have — to sign these agreements and to do these works. And I would also like to ask -- I don't know if you know the case -- why a request from the San Sadurniño Town Hall and the Narón Town Hall for a joint infrastructure was not included in this list. You assume a great deal of primacy and support for the works that are done through cooperation between municipalities. Why did this project, which has been carried out for more than eight years by the offices of Junta last year, Mr. Director of the Waters of Galicia informed the mayors that it was not going to be carried out and, instead, if they have a wide door to enter into the offices of San Caetano and to be approved and processed the council agreements governed by the People's Party? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u97	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. Mrs Mato, you have the floor of the Councillor for the Environment and Planning of the Territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u98	Thank you very much, President. Mr Bará, I actually agree with my president that Galicia is a paradise, and I can also assume that it was this government and not another that had made the law of transparency public in our community, by which you are asking. I would also like to have something in mind in this speech — by all Members and, of course, by myself as a member of the Government — and that the powers are clear in the matter of water. The Water Law clearly says that, and indeed, the competence in sanitation and supply is an exclusive competence of the municipalities, where the Galician Union and even the Government of the State may, if it so believes, participate actively. And so we've been doing this ever since we've been in government in 2009, and so have we done this year in 2016, in which, as you said, we signed 66 conventions in the waters of Galicia, in the second quarter. But also on the third quarter, we signed six more conventions. That is, 71 conventions signed during 2016, to which we have to add six more acts that were made by decree in collaboration with five municipalities. That is, 75 municipalities in our community will have engaged — since 2016 — works over the next few months — and also years, because some works are important —; 75 municipalities, Mr Bará, means that one in four municipalities, one in four municipalities!, in our community will have an investment made by the Council of Galicia in an exclusive competition of the municipalities. And, as you said, in these investments, in these commitments of agreements and decrees, we invest and commit about 50 million euros. If you were following me, at the beginning of 2016 I announced an investment of 61 million euros in water in our community. That is, they have not been able to execute, without compromising, 11 million euros, 11 million euros which correspond strictly to the Ferrol Town Hall, which still today, and since August 2, has the agreement on its table and we don't know anything about it, which has a committed investment of 7 million euros and where, as you know very well, it does not govern the People's Party; which corresponds to the Sanxenxo Town Hall, where since July it has an agreement on the table with 400,000 euros of investment and on which neither, as you know very well, govern the People's Party; and which corresponds to 6 million Poio, where today it doesn't have an agreement, it doesn't even know where you want to invest those 6 million euros. And so it's already ahead of you, so when you ask me why the 61 million euros I was talking about were not executed, which, of course, has the answer. I'll be right there. 33% of these investments were for municipalities not governed by the People's Party. But I would like to point out that the average investment in municipalities not governed by the People's Party of this council is one million euros per municipality, on the average.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u99	Finish up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u100	And the average investment in the Town Councils of the People's Party is half a million euros. I'll finish the intervention later, in the second part.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Bará Torres has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u102	Well, Counselor, you say Galicia is a paradise. I suppose it won't be a paradise for the more than 600,000 people in Galicia who have difficulty reaching the end of the month and who live in situations of poverty and social exclusion. I suppose you won't refer to those people when you talk about paradise. And, of course, we don't question the need or the opportunity to do all these works that were signed by agreement, what we're questioning is that they use digital technology, that is to say, decide on what agreements are made and which ones are not. And I mentioned the case of San Sadurniño and Narón, and you couldn't replicate anything about it. I hope in the second intervention you can tell me something. You tell me, as a proof of great generosity and magnanimity, that they make agreements with a third of the municipalities that I'm not from the People's Party. It seems to me, of course, an extraordinary amount, given the distribution that is after the last elections in 2015, where you have carried a good electoral battalion with the division that is in municipal power. The truth is that we are not surprised at this issue of opacity, lack of transparency, discretionality and partyism, because they also apply it to other calls, in this case, that they do through the DOG, such as the Hurbe Plan, in which they also apply absolutely discretionality. I hope you will give me some answer regarding the case of San Sadurniño and Naron, because I find it extremely serious that, when two municipalities — which is quite difficult — agree to face works like this type of work — in which there are also many litigations and many confrontations over these beautiful issues, when two municipalities and two mayors agree that they close the door and that the director of the waters of Galicia calls the mayors to tell them that this work will not be executed because they have already done a lot of work in that area. So it seems to me that the path they are following, of course, is not the right one, it is not respectful of the rights of citizens and the rights that the municipalities have to be able to execute these works with the collaboration of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the reply by the Government, the Counsellor, Mrs. Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u104	Yes, Mr. Bará, I still think Galicia is a true paradise, and it is also a place of hope for all these people. You were talking about the political representation we have in our municipalities. The truth is that it's timely, because the People's Party is actually ruling over 52% of the municipalities today, and it was also ruling around 52% of the municipalities in 2007, when, by the way, at Galicia's board, the Bipartite was ruling, of which you were not part but their political formation yes, the BNG... Oh, you guys too? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, look how good it is, it still puts me more in my favor. Because, do you know what the percentage of Bipartite investment in water in the People's Party councils was? Twenty-five percent of the investment was for more than half of Galician municipalities, governed by the People's Party. I mean, Your Honor, that was really having a digital technology policy, not what we're doing now. And what we're doing now, thanks to the Transparency Law that put this government in place, you've got it published; and even in the Budget Law, where it clearly identifies investments. And I would like, of the 71 investments of the 71 agreements we have signed, to highlight some highly outstanding investments and where, indeed, the Galician Union is going to be: Ferrol's, where the place to which, if possible, talk to someone about its political formation to see whether it is right to sign this agreement; the Viveiro's, of course, also with 1 million euros, which will be an EDAR of 3 million euros and where in 2017 we will have 1 million euros; that of Pontedeume, where we will also have 4.3 million euros; Cedera, where there will also be an investment of sanitation; Ortigueira; Rianxo. Finally, Your Honor, I could report all the investments that since this council is developing in collaboration with all the municipalities. And you do well, if you want to talk about San Sadurniño, and even about Narón, because of course you can ask me questions, how can you ask me about Vilagarcia, how can you ask me about Panton, how can you ask me about Portomarín, how can you ask me about the whole relationship of councils that have been presented to the Government of the Council of Galicia since 2009 to ask him for cooperation in a competition that is exclusive to the councils. The Galician Union will be, but it has the priority — and in these investments we are making — to complement all the investments and support for the sanitation of Galician rivers. And then they'll have us. So, Your Honor, when we have to talk about the execution, what this advisor has to do and this advisor's advice is to respond to these needs. One in four municipalities, in one year, have engaged an investment in sanitation, and I think that's the most outstanding milestone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u105	Thank you very much, Counselor. Question by D. Antón Sánchez García, from G.P. In Marea, on the opinion of the Government of Greece on compliance with the project called the Lusame Environmental Management Centre of European, State and Autonomic Regulations concerning the waste treatment hierarchy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u106	To put the question, you have the word of Mr. Cal Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. The Lousame Environmental Management Centre project is a run forward, a kick to follow, is to close your eyes and keep focusing on the mistake. We are in front of a new macro-verter that does not bring anything new to the unrelenting Sogama model, that model that the Counselor says, over and over again, that is an international example, in a titanic effort to defend the indefensible. But the data is what you are, Counselor, it's data that puts this model on Europe's tail. Of the nearly 100,000 tonnes of toxic and non-toxic waste that will receive the plant annually, almost 80% would end up in the dump, while only 22.5% of waste could be recovered for other uses, as the Environmental Council itself pointed out. We don't even know if the transition costs of the supposed 10% valuation that would be converted into fuels would be profitable, because of the opacity we find ourselves with. We don't know the energy costs of transforming and transporting them, but we can suspect, by the recent data from Sogama's report, that no levels of energy recovery will be achieved either. We found that, despite the insistence of presenting it as an installation of recycling and taking advantage of the materials contained in waste, its real function is to bury most of the garbage in a huge dump. Of course, the figures we're handling are far from the target of 50% of recycled waste by 2020, so nobody understands how it can even be proposed to carry forward this work, instead of decisively embracing the management model change based on the hierarchy "reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering", which was not enough errors for the lady advisor in the appearance of last Friday's budgets, who also said they wanted to rebuild, repair or redistribute, for example. Well, Counsellor, for now, we will be able to see how projects that focus on moving forward in the "reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering" errors, which, of course, cannot be achieved by building macro-greens and conforming to the Sogama model, which only recycles 3.34% of the waste managed. I repeat, this international example only recycles 3.34% of the waste managed. Their policies in this matter are those of the defense of a single error: re-incidence; re-incidence to error, re-incidence to a model that is not sustainable, re-incidence to a model that is expensive from many points of view, externalizes costs and does not generate jobs. The management of which the alleged plant boasts will largely result in the accumulation of waste and, to a lesser extent, incineration; a model that does not differ much from the existing one in the 1970s, which contradicted European legislation, which, with the horizon 2020, insists on reducing this activity and on wagering for recycling. So we see instead of moving towards sustainable policies of original reduction, reuse and recycling to reduce incineration and direct greenery, we promote toxic public policy technology.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u108	Finish it, Mr. Ogong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u109	I'm done. For all this, let us ask you the following question: does you consider that the project of the Lusame Environmental Management Centre, promoted by the company Residue Manager of the Northwest S.L, is adapted to the principles of European, state and autonomous waste legislation as regards compliance with the waste treatment hierarchy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u110	Thank you very much. You have the word, to answer that, the Territorial Environment and Ordination Advisor, Beatriz Mato.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u111	Thank you very much, President. Mr Cal, this is the second time that I have the opportunity to answer in this House for this very matter, and it is the third time that the Council is responding to this same question. I have to add a little bit more to what I said to this Parliament about 15 days ago than to reiterate once again the firm commitment of this council to comply with and, of course, enforce the legislation in force in this matter. I reiterate to you that if there had been a single unfavorable report during the processing of this file for the implantation of this plant, this board obviously will not sign it. And there's one thing that somehow seems to you that you don't want to understand, in which this government believes, that there is indeed free competition and free market and therefore the Administration, so because yes, willingly and willingly, you can't tell to any private initiative that is not for an activity, for a pleasure. Because that has another name and he's also punished judicially. Any company — as this is the case — can undertake the activity which is relevant, obviously having all the licences and permits, and fulfilling — once again, which seems to be kind enough — the legislation — which all Members should know about. This file, which is a private company, has been presented for some time now, and I can't move forward — as I said — in the last fifteen days. You should also know that environmental authorizations are not short processes over time, they are processes that require a lot of information and a lot of reports, which take a lot of time. So, when you ask me a question about whether you're adapting or not adapting to regulations, today I can't answer because there's still enough time left to process. But you have no doubt, Mr. Cal, that we apply and apply the same requirements as we have with any other project that is presented in this advice for your environmental process. I believe that this issue has been answered in the Commission, even here in Parliament, and I can answer as many times as I need to. What I would ask of you is a certain rigour in your intervention, because speaking of industrial waste — which is what is presented in this dossier — mixing it with urban waste has absolutely nothing to do with it. You're talking about a model of urban waste management and treatment, which, as you can understand, has nothing to do with the project you're asking today, and it doesn't even have any link in the current legislation or its processing. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u112	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Cal's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u113	Just as the requirement they have with this project is the same as the one they have with Sogama, because we're going wrong. That's why I do the comparison, so I remember the model they're defending, and that's why I'm worried that this new model is going along the same line. This model they're defending doesn't differ much from the landfills we had in the municipalities a few decades ago, in their recycling levels, in the treatment of waste in landfills and incineration. But, in addition to this, this Lousam project, in addition to going against the waste hierarchy, is being able to make everyone agree: ecological associations, neighboring platforms, trade unions and political parties. Ecological groups are denouncing irregularities: the irrigations and nascents of the environment appear more distant from the dump than they really are, do not agree with the geological study, do not define the final destination of the leached, the environmental values of the land correspond to a reality far richer than they are exposed to in the project, there is no archaeological study or impact on the heritage, and the population nuclei in the project appear more distant than they are in reality. The Labrego Union also gave its voice of alarm, fading into the possible prejudices to the dozens of agricultural holdings that work in the nearest neighborhood, and which generate nearly a hundred jobs in the municipalities of Lousam and Kings. It notes that hundreds of acres of contiguous or adjacent to the landfill are the fundamental support of the farms concentrated in the neighboring villages of Lousam, a municipality declared area of special agricultural interest. There are also several municipal plenary sessions that have already approved motions for rejection of the facility: Girl, Lousam, Kings or Brothers, and so has the plenary assembly of the Crown. The mayor of Lousame, of his own party, pointed out that the document prepared by the Town Hall offered powerful arguments for that company not to be established in Lousame, as it had found very serious deficiencies and defects in the project. The mayor of the PP, not the Tide, concluded that the project is disrespectful to the territory, the middle and the landscape. The local government of Lousame also commissioned the development of an external environmental audit to supplement this technical report. It seems that your party's mayor doesn't trust himself to see how this issue is being handled. Counsellor, step back and do not continue to resume, do not allow this project to become another black spot in the waste management policies of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u114	Thank you, Mr. Cal. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u115	I understand that it is important to speak, as I said at first, rigorously on a subject. If you want to talk about the Sogama model, we can talk about the Sogama model, and the Nostián model and the Lousam model, these plants that are urban waste, because, as I say, they actually belong to a commitment, which is the urban waste plan of our community, and which, therefore, I think it doesn't proceed, if we want to be rigorous and take the debate really seriously, mix both things, because it's how they talk about absolutely different topics. I don't want to take this time to defend the Sogama model, because you said they recycled 3.4%. So yes, they recycle 3.4 % of material, it's an approximate figure. But you're not talking about recycling and energy recovery -- because it doesn't seem like that -- taking 25% to the dump, 25%. Of the tons entering Sogama 25% goes to the dump. I think you're betting on other models where the dump still grows more and still fills more of waste — which seems to be what you want —, which contradicts the concern you say you have with a new dump. So, I think it's important to clarify whether the model they want is to divert 50 or 60% — which is what diverts the other urban waste management plants from Nostian and Lousam — and to increase the landfill year after year until the moment that it is no longer in the dump — in Nostián, for example, it doesn't fit and has to be sent out — or if what they really want is to defend is that there are no landfills in our community. And these dumps in our community — the ones you talk about — belong in this case to an application by a company made to this administration. And, in fact, I know very well what worries they're causing in society. And I, as the head of this government, have to do with a written request to an administration is to process it and run it. All the reports you were talking about — including the mayor's — I can assure you that they will be part of that file, all the reports. And with all those reports, it will be like this council will have the ability to respond in one sense or another. What I am sure is that our commitment is to continue to move forward in that circular economy that contemplates the "multi-R", indeed, as you said. And to do so we will have in our community for the first time — if you want to talk about this request from this industrial waste management plant — a new industrial waste management plan in our community until 2022, for the first time. There has not been so far and there will be a new industrial waste plan in the coming weeks, which will have an investment of EUR 3.6 million in 2017. He's recently passed his strategic environmental statement. And, of course, this statement will culminate in the environmental assessment and presentation of this project, which, as I say, we will soon do so to have a roadmap and strictly stick to legality. Paying attention to legality is an obligation that we have to hold a public office and also to Members.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u116	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u117	And, of course, make it happen. And that's what this council will do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u118	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Junta of Galicia regarding the environmental state of the Arousa River
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u119	Question by Ms. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u120	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in 2011 and 2013 the Court of Justice of the European Union sanctioned Spain for its non-compliance with clearance and sanitation, also in Galicia. When several MEPs from the European Parliament arrived here in February 2013, they were surprised by the cleansing and contamination of the Welsh rivers. And although our laughs -- according to them -- are very productive, they are in grave danger because there are no measures being taken by governments. There is a preliminary report which was very hard at the time, and which was relaxed in its drafting, was softened, by the conservative Euro MP who finished writing it permanently. And yet he said this sort of thing: that at the end of 2014 the European Commission announced again that it would punish Galicia before the Court of Justice for the ill-treatment of urban waste water in our autonomous community, because there is no proper treatment system and because there is a risk to public health. And in the past month — a few days ago — the European Commission again asks the Court of Justice for a new economic sanction to Spain for the lack of liquid waste treatment in Santiago, Vigo and Ribeira. This is our reality, Counselor. And you've been ruling in Galicia for twenty-nine years since democracy began in our autonomous community, so some responsibility is likely to have. One more example of this disillusionment is the situation of the Arousa creek. The Marquean professionals have been in a dramatic situation that has led to the fall of captures in the free Marquean banks. They already buy — from professionals — concrete and exceptional measures to deal with this situation. The sector is at the limit and there are possibly future campaigns that are broken because you do not take measures as a government. The only answer is always a commitment that never materializes: no dragonflies, no seedlings, no action against predators, no new studies that take some consequences on why the Berbecho has been killed for almost two years by a foreign parasite that is also now affecting the plum. In particular, in Cambados and in Carril — which are the two Berbeet Extraction Zones and threatens with greater economic impact in the Lower Rhine — these two species continue to die. The red tide and the toxin year by year economically strangle this sector and also lately the mexillon producers. Counsellor, you are in a government, and this government is what you have to put the means to analyze the situation and what is happening not only in the Arousa River, but also in the other rivers of Galicia, to determine the factors that influence this situation and to take, once and for all, corrective measures immediately. Unfortunately, we're still waiting. It requires the comprehensive sanitation of the Arousa River and you have to provide immediate solutions, immediate measures, for the purification of the municipalities that you see in it. Let's wait for your answer to what you have to tell us, as a member of the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u122	...and responsible for the environment, on the environmental situation of the Arousa River. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u124	Well, thank you very much, President. What I have to tell you, Mrs Vilán, is that we're working and we're working all over the Arousa River and all the laughs of our community since 2009. And, of course, this already contains realities and facts that are already present in our laugh. And also what I have to say to you — since you are concerned about this visit that took place in 2013, related to the visit of the Members of the European Parliament to our reports which gave rise to these reports — is that I, Mrs Vilan, have the firm hope, the firm hope, that the data we are going to provide to the Government of the State so that the Government of the State can justify itself to Brussels and that this complaint is nothing and that it is not really a judgment on the placements that touch Galicia. Because, as you said very well, that denunciation is about the kingdom of Spain in seventeen agglomerations, three of them are in our community — as you spoke — that is Santiago, Vigo and Ribeira. And I would like to point out that in those cities in particular, if you've invested a lot in sanitation, which I hope will be enough for the data we provide to drop that complaint. In Vigo, in particular, the largest investment was made — I repeat: the greatest investment — of the history of Galician sanitation union, with 230 million euros in the city of Vigo for an EDAR that will be about to work and that we will soon put to the test. In Ribeira we also have a new EDAR — which is now under test — with more than 19 million euros invested. In Santiago too, the EDAR in Silvouta has invested about 4 million euros that are already giving data totally different from that in 2013 in the conditions and parameters that Europe needs to assess the quality of water. And in the Coruña, of course, they also invested about 21 million euros in EDAR. In short, we are doing our homework and making it possible to change the circumstances that accompany the laughter of our community. As I told you, I have a firm commitment — because it is a government commitment and it is a commitment by the President of the Galician Union — that by the end of 2020 all the work on sanitation in our rivers that are pending to improve the quality of the water executed or running, and that they can therefore be made available and substantially modify the quality of the water. Because this government is particularly concerned about the water quality situation, especially as it relates to this sector, which is indeed so important in our community — whether or not more than 18,000 people live — that is the seafood and seafood sector. Thanks to the investment of the Galician Union — which was more than EUR 1 billion, 600 in our rivers — we could improve the conditions of the marine banks and increase their classification, from C to B by more than 30%. So I think this is the way we have to walk. In the answer, I'll tell you in particular — in the second part — of the Arousa River, which is why you ask me today.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u125	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Vilan's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u126	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't want a first generic answer and a second answer by the Arousa laugh, I want the first and the second about the Arousa laugh because that's what the question is about. The question is very clear: what do you think of the environmental situation of the Arousa River? From the rest of the laughs you already told me in the Commission the other day and you told me — as you just told me here for that headline that you have to go out in the press again — that all the works will be done or run by 2020. I've already answered you at that moment that I don't believe in pregnant birds, and I suppose you don't either. It's gonna be really hard, but, well, if you want me to answer the same thing again... And I want to know if you can say that the water from the river's urban waste is treated correctly right now, if you know if you're contaminated with bacteria and harmful viruses, if you know that there's a proliferation of algae that are suffocating precisely the plum and the Berbecho and that you might have to do with high amounts of nitrogen or phosphorus, if you know your government if you're originating risks to public health, not only for the environment, for the inland waters, for the marine environment. Don't tell me you're responsible for the sanitation councils, as we were answered in July 2015, and as you insinuated in the first question you were asked today in this House. Tell me what you're going to do, that you're responsible for the treatment of waste water. Don't tell me either, since 2009 they've invested 30 million euros, because we already know those things, Counselor. That's what they keep saying to those headlines. I ask you about the Arousa creek, that you answer me from the Arousa creek, and tell me that the seafood banks have improved in the Arousa creek, which is what I'm asking you about. And, Counsellor, nothing has to do with the new complaint from the European Union, from the Commission to the Court of Justice — the young one, which has to do with Santiago, Vigo and Ribeira — with that report from the European Parliamentarians who came to Galicia, who only came to Ferrol and saw the Burgo's river. It was something different. There were previous complaints in 2011 and 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u127	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u128	...they came in 2013, and then comes the 2014 complaint. Thank you. Specific answer, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u130	Yes, Mrs. Vilán, I invite you to visit in Ribeira to EDAR to see if you think it's a headline. I invite her to visit the Grove to EDAR to see if she's a headline. I invite you to visit the new EDAR in Corrubedo to see if it's a headline too, to see if everything I'm talking about, for example, Ribadumia and Boiro are headlines, headlines like the 55 million euros invested since Galician Union in the Arousa River since 2009. You may call it the headline, but if you go through all these municipalities, one by one, you can see that headline of what you're talking about. And you can also say that it is a headline to say that the new Galician hydrological plan up to 2020 will invest around 23 million euros in this line. You will call it the holder, but what I do know is that this is something already committed, a plan where 23 million euros will be committed in this stream, where by 2017 we will draw in Boiro 2.1 million euros, in Rianxo, 337,000 euros, and in Ribeira we will continue to finish that investment that we have pending 2.8 million euros. Look, Your Honor, what we did from the beginning, beyond that total -- by 2020 plus 70 million euros that we are going to invest in the Arousa River, 55 already invested and 23 to invest -- was a sanitation plan and mark that roadmap, as we said in the last question you asked me about the River of Pontevedra, to know where we have to invest in this river. And now in the Arousa River there are five areas, that is, there are five sanitation plans, which are the ones we've put in place; five sanitation plans in whose writing was invested 3.6 million euros to be able to write it. In these plans is Cathoira and Vilagarcia, on the one hand; Vilanova and Cambados, on the other hand; Meaño, Sanxexo and O Grove, on the other hand; Ribeira and A Pobra, on the other hand; and Borio and Rianxo, on the other hand. In short, Your Honor, what the Galician Union does is work, work to meet the needs of Galician municipalities. And above all, to ensure the improvement of the quality of our waters. We did it in the past with more than 1,100 million euros invested, 600 in our rivers, and we will continue to do it in this one. If you want to know how water quality is in shellfish matters, that's a question you can answer better than me at the Sea Council. But I can assume, as a member of the Government of Galician Union, that we have the best technology centre in our community, which is the Intemar, which assesses the situation in which each of the sea bank is daily. And it's the ones that are obviously providing us with that data for which I can assume — after all these investments — that Galicia has improved its position on the marine banks thanks to these investments since 2009. Is it for better? Obviously. And that's why we're going to invest in the Arousa River, which you're talking about, 23 million by 2020. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u131	Thank you, Counselor. We'll wait for the visitors we have to withdraw. Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado and four other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the operation of the New People's Card since its activation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u132	Mrs. Antonio Vilasanchez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This question is motivated because we're about to end in 2016 and so we're going to try to balance those initiatives that the Government has launched throughout this year. And one of these initiatives is the implementation of the New People's Card, as you all know, which is a measure within the metropolitan transport of Galicia. In fact, the metropolitan transport of Galicia responds to a basic need of our autonomous community, which is the connectivity between our municipalities and, in particular, in those municipalities that are located in the area of influence of some of the great seven cities, which, as you know, are the attraction in the labour market, in the field of leisure, in the ear of all teaching services, shopping, etc. The geographical dispersion, so characteristic of our community, should not be a penalty for the people who decided to set their lives outside the large urban centers. That's why all measures to facilitate, improve accessibility and mobility between public services must be positively assessed. In this sense, one measure that is worth a positive a priori is the creation and implementation, precisely, of this New People's Card at the end of the past legislation. When this proposal was debated, even in this House, the Galician Board, through the Council of Infrastructure and Living, commented that with this card it intended to achieve several main objectives: promoting public transport, helping family economies, educating young people in the culture of the use of collective transport, and we could even add other benefits, such as giving greater autonomy and independence to young people in Greece, such as contributing to the improvement of the environment, such as reducing the pressure of the mobile park on urban centers, etc. At that time, it was thought that this measure could benefit a universe of close to 200,000 people, boys and girls between 4 and 18 years of age, with an impact especially relevant to those who are not in the field of compulsory education, because, as you know, school transportation to public educational institutions is free of charge. It was also positively appreciated the impact it could have on savings, especially at a time of economic recession and restriction. Right now this measure is implemented practically in all areas where metropolitan transport exists, that is, the areas of the Coruña, Santiago, Ferrol, Lugo and Vigo, and today, five months after the start of this card's vigil, we ask the Infrastructure Advisor and Live the evaluation of the Conseilerie of Use and the benefits of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u135	Thank you, President. Your Honor, it was last August 26th, in the Official Journal of Galicia, when the Board activates a new social measure of great importance for families, but above all of great importance for young Greeks; it is the New People program, which involves the implementation of the freeness of interurban metropolitan transport to the under 19 years of age. Therefore, a new bonus for young Greek girls under 19 years of age, and that the Galician Union could implement thanks to a surplus of responsibility, that is, thanks to the fact that the Galician Union was able to meet the deficit and, therefore, to acquire and obtain those additional resources as a result of fulfilling the deficit. The New People programme, as I said, is directed at children under 19 years of age, but in particular it is for children between 4 and 18 years of age, because, as you know, those under 4 years of age already enjoy this long-term urban transport. So it means a new tariff, a new tariff of 0 euros for long-distance travel in areas where metropolitan transport is being implemented. Therefore, young Greeks under the age of 19 can enjoy a maximum of 60 trips in interurban metropolitan transport, which means, therefore, that they have guaranteed a free trip and return every month, including weekends, and have also guaranteed the free transit of urban and urban transport; that is, they have free travels that take place between urban and urban services in the areas of the Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol, when they are part of an interurban journey on the metropolitan voyage. So, a new initiative that will strengthen, increase the advantages that you already have of the Metropolitan Transport Plan, which is already implemented in five areas, sixty-five municipalities, which allows savings of up to 600 euros a year to frequent users and which, even, can reach 1,000 euros a year when they also use the urban bus. So, the New People's Card offers the maximum advantages to the younger families, it has a clear social component, a clear educational component and also awareness-raising, because what is learned as a small one, of course, is never forgotten, and we want our children, our young people to grow up knowing, being aware of the advantages of public transport. And since Galician Youth, we are pleased with this initiative, with a great welcome within the young people of Galicia, because in less than three and a half months, in which this New People's Card program has been running, there were 11,000 of them who already have the card and about 400,000 trips since they have downloaded this New People's Card. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u136	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u137	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Well, Counsellor, I would like to thank you for your explanation, but I would like to say that in your second shift I would like to have a little bit more on the results and implementation of this card for new people: an area evaluation, an assessment of the welcome of the program, the number of users, even the budgets allocated in 2016 and, above all, the budgets that you are going to allocate to your Counsellor for this program in 2017. And I would also ask you to move to the head count counties of metropolitan areas to join this urban transport initiative, now that they are also preparing their budgets, so that there is no inequality between the boys and girls of the heads councils themselves, as I said, and the rest of the metropolitan area that is added to transport. Because it is paradigmatic that precisely in those municipalities where they govern — as they well know — different parties to the People's Party because unfortunately that card cannot be implemented in urban transport. That's Vigo's case. Well, in Vigo we no longer have metropolitan transport, as we could have heard two weeks ago in this House, with which, if we don't have metropolitan transport, we're unfortunately going to have a card. So first the transport and then the card. As is the case with Coruña and Lugo, although the People's Party presented a motion for inclusion or for the addition of the municipalities to urban transport to this card, there is no answer, nothing is known about what they intend to do. And already paradigmatic is the case of Santiago, where also in June the People's Party took a motion that was passed by the plenary but that was not done in this sense either. I hope now that Mr. Duarte has diminished his powers because of his imputation he spends more time on mobility competition and can enforce the agreements of the whole. So we see that with your intervention the only thing that comes out is that really the only administration that has a social policy, a youth policy, a policy in which you think about saving families, a policy that is interested in young people and girls is Galician Union. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Antonio. Lockdown, Madam Infrastructure and Housing Advisor. I'm sorry, but we have a problem here, which the computer just failed and I don't have a chance to control time, I'm going to control it more or less by the clock, I have no other choice, but it's just that this device has stopped working, and then we're going over time. [[Laughter]] You've got three minutes, we're going to try to control it, which isn't something either... so, for a time of three minutes, counselor, the closing shift. [[Laughter]] Doesn't yours work? I don't know what happened here, mine works, I think. Give a voice to the councillor's chair, please. It's not going. Let's see if they fix it. Try on that, but... you know, give a voice to some government seat so you can answer the counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u139	You can do it from mine, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u140	Man, no! Not from then on, it wouldn't be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u141	For once, the voice of the opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u142	You can do it from the rostrum, see if the rostrum works. Time will be near, I'll control it, don't worry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u143	Thank you, President. Well, Your Honor, as I said in my first speech, it's almost 11,000 young people who already have this New People's Card for free travel in metropolitan urban transport. In the particular case of the Coruña area, it is the one that most cards have distributed, half of all cards, 12,000 cards. As for the municipalities, for, surprisingly, curiously, it's Vigo's council that most distributed cards have for the new people, totaling more than 3,000 cards in Vigo's council. So a new initiative, this New Card program, which adds new advantages to the advantages that the Metropolitan Transport Plan already has, which allows additional savings of up to 1,000 euros. And by setting examples, a young man who wants to move from Round it up to Vigo or from Naron to Ferrol, that is, a jump, may have an annual savings of 120 euros; when it is a two-step trip, for example, a young man who wants to go from Betanzos to Coruña or from Baleira to Lugo, because that young man can afford savings of up to 800 euros a year, thanks to this New People's Card; and if there are three jumps, for example, a young man between The Road and Santiago can have savings of up to 1,120 euros a year. The number of cards, as I say, are 31,000 of the cards distributed and have already paid nearly 400,000 trips in metropolitan interurban transport. So, good welcome and interest in this program, and what we expect is that by the end of this year half a million of the well-fed trips with the New Card, so half a million trips in public transport. I believe that it is correct in mobility policies and we will, of course, continue to push this Metropolitan Transport Plan, Public Transport and Budget 2017 for the Metropolitan Transport Plan, which increases by 4.3 % and reaches 10.4 million euros. Of course it will also follow the New People's Card, this program, because we bet, of course, on initiatives that facilitate and hinder displacement. We consider, of course, what you said, that the Greek municipalities with competences in urban transport in those areas where metropolitan transport is integrated extend this measure to the freeness of urban transport. That's how this House understood it. I personally addressed the mayors of those municipalities to implement this measure. I want to take advantage of the opportunity I have here today to make a new call to these councils that have not yet joined this program, to this measure of the Galician New People's Card Board, and that they add themselves so that this measure is complete and that it allows young people, our young Greeks under 19 years old who can benefit from free urban transport. Because we're talking about a social, educational and awareness measure for our young people, our young Greeks, who are really the future of Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u144	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Villares Naveira, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea. Whenever you want. Let's see if it works now. We have a problem. From the rostrum, if you like. Question by D.Antón Sánchez García and 13 other Members of the G.P. of En Marea, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the data published by the National Institute of Statistics in relation to energy poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As you can see, the willingness of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea to collaborate also in the good functioning of the House is complete whenever necessary; therefore they will always have us there. We know that, in addition, it is possible to collaborate on many subjects that are of common interest and therefore does not want to be a bold call. We are still there seeing if we close an institutional statement and we are still confident that it is possible to collaborate in many areas. Although much has been said during this morning of energy poverty, our question to the Government insists on this issue, because we know it's something that is not only of social concern, but of concern within the homes itself, within Galician families themselves. Energy poverty, as you know, is the inability to meet the thermal needs of our country's homes. We know... - Don't you hear? Not at all. Then... the back ones complain that they don't. Two factors compete in assessing the concept of energy poverty: the first, the family incomes of households; and the second, the electricity tariff. There may be a low level of income but also low electricity rates and there may be high rates combined with high incomes and then the worst of the conditions, which is being given in many homes in our country right now, which is that of low incomes and high electricity rates. So we believe that we need to shorten this from both factors. The question is determined by the data we know of the INE, the National Institute of Statistics, where it was reflected that 15.4% of Galician households suffer what is known as energy poverty; a risk situation where the OECD emphasizes its existence from the need to devote more than 10% of the income available to the payment of this type of household bills. We know that these two factors compete, we know that job insecurity and the situation of inability to work, the lack of social benefits in the case of unemployment are influencing negatively in the field of energy poverty, but we also know that the tariff regime, the increase in electricity tariff, is also assuming another major problem that is not being tackled. We know that Junta has put the joint ticket, but we know that's not coming. First, because the subsidised amount is notoriously insufficient to meet the basic household electrical demands and, secondly, because this data is showing that, indeed, this impact is notoriously insufficient, in addition to that it is being detected by social services that population layers that objectively would not be receiving it, among other things because they are not detected by the media that have their own social services and cannot be paid due attention and therefore cannot be met, which thus results in these data that we have just met from the INE. As I'm in red, I'm going to end up right now, but in any case the question we want to move to the Government is how the Government assesses the fact that, despite having put these measures that they've already talked about during the morning, these data are produced, which are contradicted by an impartial institute like the National Statistical Office, of 15.4% of the homes in Greece with energy poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u146	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I believe that the Socialist Party took the lead in formulating the question of energy poverty, but I, in any case, greatly appreciate the opportunity to reiterate once again the commitment of this government to all people in a vulnerable situation and therefore what this government is doing to give a concrete answer, because the answer we are giving to it in fact. You give the data of the year 2016 and should also transfer as this data is improving since 2014. In some ways, this improvement is probably, or at least to a large extent, derived from economic recovery, therefore from employment recovery, and also logically from measures being introduced by the Government. And so I think in that sense we have to value what we're doing, those electric ticket measurements, the measure of the supply cut-off order, which ensures that people who are in a situation of vulnerability can't be cut off from that supply, that this year we're expanding to natural gas. So this year 2017 we introduced a new measure. I would tell you if you were to transfer it a little bit as the ticket works, the order of supply itself, because it works with total transparency, with total agility and logically the municipalities know perfectly well the measure. Therefore, the social services of the municipalities can perfectly collaborate with the Government so that these aids can reach all citizens. And so from the budgetary point of view you also know that there is no limit, because we will expand the game what is necessary to meet all requests that are presented both in the order of the electric ticket and in the order of cut supply. We're actually talking about an income problem and we're talking about an energy cost problem. The energy cost in Spain has been falling continuously since 2014. The IPC of energy products, from November 2014 to November 2016, is continuously downloading, derived from a government-ordered energy policy. And logically, from the point of view of income, we're not only introducing measures into the issue of energy poverty directly, but also to address income needs. There is the Risga with 52 million euros this year, there is the complement of non-contributory pensions and there is also the social bonus; a bonus that needs to be reformulated, which we agree on in that reformulation, because the reformulation of the social bonus must allow for the greatest number of vulnerable consumers. I believe that this is the context in which we are working, and we — and I have moved it to the previous interpellation — are ready to set a stage for dialogue with parliamentary groups, administrations, so that, in fact, through the initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u148	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u149	...people's law enforcement, we can continue to provide concrete answers to the most vulnerable citizens, who are our main concern.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u150	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u151	Forgive us for contradicting the data you use as a starting budget. The evolution of the price of electricity, the energy cost of homes, has not come down. In other words, in the last ten years the increase in electricity prices for households was 76% and in the last year the price of kilowatt rose to 28%. Therefore, we cannot agree with the assumption of their own assertion. Secondly, while this happens, the profit of the electricians, evidently with that price increase, remains higher. We have 15% of our homes in energy poverty, while we're surplus as a country in 33% of our electricity production. So we have an energy wealth that is poorly distributed. And the work of public administrations is the redistribution of that wealth precisely so that everyone has the same opportunities, also in relation to the heating of their own homes. The social bond isn't enough, because INE data is showing this. The data from the Red Cross, with more than 1,000 bills paid in 2016, are showing this, and we also know that in order to alleviate energy poverty, besides paying the bonds, which is one of the purposes that should be covered for the palliation of energy poverty, it is not enough; it is also necessary to have energy efficiency workers, so that in the homes people have, through awareness campaigns and learning campaigns, the possibility of better managing the way of managing energy. Secondly, the promotion of energy information points, the promotion of home counselling and, of course, also the renovation of facilities, which in many cases and with very basic measures would give many homes, precisely the most needed, could be more energy efficient. All of this would result in a different situation, where energy poverty could become a virtually residual issue. But that needs a more determined commitment from the Government, which we understand is so far insufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u152	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, I refer myself to the data of the National Institute of Statistics — here they are at your disposal — from November 2014 to November 2016 continuously every month the IPC of energy products has been downloaded. But if you want more specific data in the last ten years... you mean the last ten years. I can tell you that from 2004 to 2011 — the Socialist Party — the energy price rose by 93%, that of consumers. In the last four years — I can give you the concrete — the price of electricity for the household consumer has fallen by 0.2%. That's a reality and I refer to the data, which would be good if I knew them. You tell me about the electrics. I would like to remind you of the support of the Galego Nationalist Block, and therefore many of its current comrades in En Marea, except now that they deny their comrades – they should refuse – but unless they deny their comrades, they have been supporting the Socialist Party's claim to the electricity companies 3,000 million euros for the costs of transition to competition; they have forgiven them 3,000 million euros. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That is the reality from the point of view of large companies. The reality of this government is that we are defending consumers, and when we talk about protecting consumers' rights and talking about the actions of the Galician Consumer Institute, I'm going to give you a date to get to know it. In the Bipartite legislature, do you know how many sanctioning files they opened to the electricians? No, they're his buddies. [[Murmurs.]] Nine. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, but listen to the data, which is interesting, it's interesting; when you talk about big electricity, it's interesting. Look, nine files... I know they don't like to listen to their comrades. [[Murmurs.]] Nine sanctioning files, 97,000 euros. Do you know what the balance of this government is? 2,369 sanctioning files, with 22 million euros of sanctions to electricity companies. That is the reality, that is to defend consumers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] And, as I told you, we will continue to work on measures, I think we have a lot to do, I think there are concrete measures, that this government is acting, that this government is responding to vulnerable consumers with specific measures, with income support and, logically, we have to keep working. But we have to keep working — I insist on the message again — in the context of the popular legislative initiative, with three requirements. First, in measures that fit law, because we have to provide legal certainty with all the measures we can implement; and the Supreme Court has already told us what we can do and what we can't do. Secondly, we have to logically propose realistic measures, to propose collaboration from different administrations and, logically, to give this response to citizens. And finally, by a reference that you say, there's actually a third area where you can act, which is in the energy efficiency of housing: income, energy costs and energy efficiency. And we're working. As you know, there's an energy efficiency plan in housing. Over the past two years, 7,000 homes have been provided and the cost has to continue to be reduced. And in 2017, by giving you a specific data, we will activate a new edition of the energy saving and efficiency plan in housing with 8.7 million euros, increasing 10% of the budget share we dedicated in 2016. So we will continue to work on energy poverty in the three fields and we will continue to work on concrete measures to make this situation of vulnerability ever smaller in Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u154	Thank you, Counselor. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u155	As we spoke to the stakeholders, we now raise the next question. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Government of Galicia in relation to the management that is being carried out the Administration of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u156	You have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to welcome the members of the board of staff of the Ourense Hospital Complex who are accompanying us today to hear, Counsellor, the answer that will give us on a matter of concern — and much — in our city. In November it was repeated once again the saturation of the Emergency Service of the Ourense Hospital Complex. It passed in November — in the beginning, in the middle, in the end — and again during this month. This is a common fact. In the face of this situation, you were to open the transit room and the pre-engagement unit, which was not equipped with toilet and hygienic units or with the infrastructures needed to care for the people who were entering there. And in the meantime, units remain closed at Santa Maria Nai Hospital, that plant at Piñor Hospital that you promised to open when there was some kind of saturation and that you had lost seventy beds at the time. And we want to ask you today what the Government of Greece is going to do in this situation, what kind of measures will put in place to prevent this situation from happening over and over again. And, above all, they worry about us because the days when this emergency service saturation occurred there was no circumstance, no peak activity that justified it, there was no epidemic. What has been in the hospital complex for years is a chronicating disease, which is the incompetence of the manager of this center ; a person, Mr. Counsellor, who pilots everything but does not drive anything at all; although, well, driving itself leads: the collapses in this hospital center; the lack of the right to the privacy of patients, looking at them in corridors in beds that are less than 20 centimeters between each other; the physical and emotional overload, with even anxiety episodes, public health professionals and also this hospital complex, with sometimes two hours' contracts, with changes in the location of their job, today in one unit and tomorrow they don't know what service they will be in. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, for users, for patients and also for their families, because, for example, there are people -- and this has been a recurring fact from the Cardiology Service -- who are patients who have to be in that service and who end up entering the Emergency Service, Counsellor. This has been a common practice, and in these emergency services, there's no equipment needed to handle them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Please ask the question, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u159	Yes. My question is clear: what does evaluation do about the management of the U.S. University Hospital Complex Management? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u161	Thank you very much. I greet you, Madam. I also greet the Staff Meeting of the CHOU of Ourenses. The truth is, we have a very good health system, for quality and accessibility. And the more you travel, the more you really know — the comparison is important — and we have a good health system. And I just want to take this opportunity to thank the healthcare professionals for the work they do; a great job. Emergency services are a fundamental part of the health system, essential for the care they provide. In our system, the urgent pathology goes to the point of continuous attention, known as the CAP, as well as emergency hospital services. Their goal is to diagnose, treat and stabilize, as far as possible, this type of pathology. The Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense is structurally equipped with adequate capacity to meet the number of emergencies it receives: about 69,000 emergencies per year; 190 average daily emergencies, with peaks that can reach 256 patients per day and with minimums about 155 per day. Care for patients requesting urgent health care is carried out in accordance with established functional planning, by receiving, welcoming and classifying citizens, allowing them to be given an emergency level. Depending on the selection, the level of emergency assigned, patients are located in places defined by their assistance: functional areas, consultations, boxing etc. Such assistance is carried out by the optional nursing staff. quantification of troops is calculated and sized according to workloads and time of day for each specific area. I'd like to point out that the average time of emergency stay is just under five hours. In any case, in all the hospitals in the Sergas network we have implemented screening priority systems so that the most serious ones can be seen as soon as possible. In other words, it's up to the level of gravity, not in order of arrival. We must point out that the staffing of staff, both optional and nursing and auxiliary of the Emergency Service, is the right one according to the standards that mark the Spanish Emergency Medicine Society and the Ministry of Health itself in the Hospital Emergency Unit document: standards and recommendations. In fact, the last enlargement of the staff board took place a year ago, increasing two nurses on the night shift. It should also be noted that the Chambers of the Transit and Pre-Employment Unit, which refer to the question put, are not physically located in the Emergency Service. I must make it clear to you that they do not depend on the aforementioned Emergency Service, they are — as your name indicates — rooms where patients with assigned beds are located waiting for the patient to be free when there is a timely situation of hospital overload. They can't be staffed on a routine basis because they're only used, as I've pointed out, in case of an overload, and at that point they're provided with the necessary personnel. The patients located in these rooms are in charge of the corresponding services in which they were entered, and they are optional of those services who are responsible for them. The patient's stay in these rooms does not exceed twelve or twenty-four hours at most. Only exceptionally, as indicated by the voluntary who makes the income, the citizen is located in the Emergency Observation Unit. They're often patients who need electrocardiographic monitoring, and the indication of their stay in the aforementioned unit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u162	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u163	...realizes with the guard cardiologist, who is responsible. I'll take advantage of the second shift so I can finish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u164	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u165	Thank you very much, President. I've just lived a remake of "no chili I don't see you," which is usually customary in this House when you ask the Government some kind of question. I'm not asking you about the care protocols, I'm asking you about the health policy of your department. That's why I'm asking you, Counselor. By the way, the order of priority of attention to patients has already come since the First World War, it's not a novelty and it's not a success of Mr. Feijóo. I don't know if I'm suffering from some kind of location problem in space and time, or reading understanding, or whether, as a third option -- almost certainly not -- you're lying. The extension of the hospital complex in September 2014 would be ready by the end of 2015. In March 2015 it would be ready for the first half of 2016. In September 2015 it was to be for the summer of 2016. I understand, if I'm not mistaken, that we're in December 2016 and it hasn't opened yet, and I'd like to know when, Counselor. And I'd like to know when they're going to meet with the staff meeting, with the workers and the workers, to inform them of such important things as what's going to happen with the kitchen, whether there's going to be a cold line or not; or what's going to happen with the parking lots, if they're going to end up turning into a problem like it was in the Cunquero. But look, Counselor, the most serious of all the department you run -- and I have to tell you that our group is outraged in a special way -- is that they don't listen. You've been opening units, which is what you usually do every time you come to Ourense on November 21st. That day there was a sign and the workers were protesting. You've gone a long way, Counselor. I give you, with total humility, two advices. First, stop once and for all and stop protecting the manager of Ourense's hospital complex. And the second, the next time I'm going to do some rain reports...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u166	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u167	...to talk to them and ask them what is meant in Ourense for risk premiums, because if I assure you, Counselor, that this is not any economic term. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u169	Thank you very much. The second intervention shows this kind of theatre that you want to teach us. Look, when you become Health Counsellor, if you do, you will decide the health policy of the Galician Union, not at the moment. But look, it's sad that I'm having easy jokes without knowing exactly what I was going to introduce to the Ourense hospital. When someone wants to talk to me, he just has to say he wants to talk to me. If I'm in an act on child depression -- it seems to me very serious -- that you didn't know... you're just talking about what you're interested in, doing some theatre here, in Parliament, so they can say in Ourense that you speak well, Mrs!, but you have no interest in solving the problems of Ourense, of health or anything, and you don't know what a health system is. [[Applause]] When you know the activity of teams that are working, from the first to the last, in hospitals and health centers, you can talk, but unfortunately you don't know it. Look, the choice -- I'm telling you at the information level -- is not World War I. The choice comes from the Vietnam War and comes from the American army, who used it. So, please, you need to know where the triage comes from before you talk about it. I have to say right now that Santa Maria Nai Hospital has no closed beds. The two units that refer to in the question add up to 46 beds and not 60; they are at the disposal of the patients to whom hospitalization indicates the professionals. They don't depend on the agency's income instructions, they depend on the professionals, who professionally demand the needs. Emergency services have great problems, so I have very much value for all the professionals who work there, because it's the only service that can't be planned. Estimates are made according to other years' statistics, but we don't have a planning, because the Emergency Service, precisely, is to solve the problems the citizen needs at any time of the day, and there we are. That's why we have measures, both organizational, spatial and professional, to be able to adapt to demand. And there are peaks, of course there are peaks! There are peaks here, in Vigo, in Coruña and in any health area, because — as I say — is the only public service where the citizen chooses the moment he needs it, and for that we are and we adapt. If you come here not to fix Ourense's health problems, if you come to something else...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u171	...is your problem. We at the Health Council are working to solve the health problems of Ourense citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u172	Thank you. Let's resume the agenda. Question from Da Noa Presas Bergantiños, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the valuation of the Galician board in relation to the failure by Pemex company of its shipbuilding commitments on the Barriers yards, as well as the possible consequences for the Welsh naval sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u173	See if it can be from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u174	This question was recorded as a matter of urgency because the times of this House prevent the handling of topical issues often enough agility. Pemex was back on record just a week ago, although the truth is, given the common link of the many non-compliances with the promises of the People's Party on a day-to-day basis of the Greeks and the Greeks, we could already the opposition groups register a question a week that directly asks how much the word of the People's Party is worth. What credibility this government has, or what it's planning to do, is that at some point it's going to do an assessment of what happened to Pemex. Those great promises that were also judged on their day by the Central Election Board about Pemex. We could also talk about Navantia announcements before the last municipal elections, etc. But time runs out, so let's leave it where the naval is for the People's Party, in the election campaign, one more tool. Other people put posters, the People's Party announces investments in the naval: repeated unmet promises — I remind them — like the 14 trailers, the two chemists, the three tankers, a tuna. I have so little time that I don't have time to summarize everything. We could also remember the difference between the jobs promised; for example, the 3,000 jobs promised in 30 months between Navantia and Barreras, which finally stayed around 600 for Vigo and an increase of around 500 for Ferrol. We could also talk about non-compliance with these 2,000 different jobs. But really, the most important thing is not even that news of the news that Pemex cancels that second fleet, but that we actually see that there is no future strategy for the naval. Who had strategy with respect to the naval? For example, Mexico, which already in 2013, when this issue was agreed with Pemex, literally said in its agreements that the goal was to transfer technological knowledge from Barreras to Mexico to resurrect the Mexican naval. I mean, from Mexico they came here with a strategy, to absorb our knowledge in exchange for a check of only five million and only two fleets, allowed by the People's Party. It would be interesting if from this Government we were told what valuation they make of the last events, that they reveal that this was left on wet paper, that it was simply a strategy of bread for today and misery for tomorrow. And now our emigrant knowledge about the ship has the uncertainty that it will happen with the jobs, that it will pass with respect to the ship in Vigo and that it will also pass, in the nearer future than faraway, with the naval in Navantia. I'm not going to tell you that they have to be on the Pemex Board of Directors, logically, but it wasn't wrong either — since the subject came out in the morning — that at some point they were dedicated to complying with the Naval Law and to being integrated into the board of directors of the public naval and really engaging in the naval in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u176	Madam Presas, I don't know if the Bipartite is responsible or not, but, since we're talking about technology, I invite you to incorporate into the industrial policy of this government, of industry 4.0, and how we can modernize and reindustrialize through a clear bet by industry, which, unfortunately, is not doing your group. Look, honestly, it's hard for me to understand the position of your group, that negativity, that mistrust, even that accuracy, but I don't have any trouble understanding it by the Government anymore. Honestly, uh, I think it's a lack of respect for the German naval sector. Look, the Welsh naval sector went through a lot of difficulties — maybe you were looking somewhere else — but a lot of difficulties, and you had to see, unfortunately, your empty grades, you had to see them. And this Government came with empty steps; and this Government came and there was no contracts; and this Government came and a Socialist Party commissioner opened a tax file read that almost leads to the Greek naval sector. That's the reality this government has found. And, look, there was a joint job here. The Galician Nationalist Block was neither expected nor expected, unfortunately, but there was a unit of action between the shipyards, between the Government, between the auxiliary industry, between the workers themselves... and in that unit of action we went ahead; and we went ahead to get a new system of tax read and, also, we went ahead, Your Honor, to fill the ranks of contracts. When you talk so frivolously that two contracts have been reached, like the Pemex contracts, to build two fleets, you're missing out on the people who wanted to work and who wanted to have a future in the naval sector and that in a situation where there was no contract this Government got those contracts and so, Your Honor, I think the naval sector deserves a respect. [[Applause]] And it deserves a respect, too, Pemex — even though it does matter to them — because Pemex in that situation of difficulty was able to burden the Greek shipyards with work. And in that situation of difficulty allowed two shipyards, like Armón and Freire, to participate in the renewal of Pemex's minor fleet, which is participating in the renewal of Pemex's minor fleet, and entered into part of Barreras. Your Honor, on a private yard, don't forget, on a private yard, the private market price, which the shareholders determined. And he allowed Barreras today to continue his conversion and to think in the future. So, frankly, I believe that the situation in the naval sector today is totally different, the fleets of Pemex are a reality — even though they do not care about it — and the fleets of Pemex, Your Honor, have served to give a boost to the Welsh naval sector, and today the ship sector is looking at another perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u177	Thank you, Counselor. Replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u178	Good. Man, they've kept two of the multiple promises and election announcements they've made, so, man!, an average of 1 out of 10 because it's not wrong either. Since then, we are glad that there was that burden of work, right now at what price? At the price of selling the knowledge of the galley ship at the price of balance? At the price of not putting conditions on the table to keep it in the middle and long term workload? At the price that, unlike other administrations and other parts of the state, is not bet on sectors that have added value and that are going to be the future when the world of oil is not, such as the question of gas or investment in R & D+i and the creation of knowledge and bet on that route? Well, what do you want me to say? I've learned today that I know at BNG we're against highways, now we're also against industry, but, unfortunately, we're not going to be the ones not in this House and they're going to have more proposals about the naval in this legislation that we've started. I am grateful, too, that they talk about unity of action when you yourselves have been complicit in the Navantia strategy of blaming that delay, of what you were talking about in the morning, to the workers themselves and workers who had denounced, in addition, the disorganization and delay in that work update. Look, the strategy you have is to gradually dismantle -- it often seems that that's what you want -- our naval, because the lower workload, the lower workload, as well as lower social conflict. So, of course, you must be thinking that now, when Vigo, when Barriers is out of work, it will be easy to silence these five hundred workers and workers. But of course we, who trust our people and who are able to organize themselves and respond, are confident that this does have a social response and that this implies that the Union must finally commit itself seriously to the naval. Because, indeed, when we talk about Barreras we're talking about the private naval, but also, we would have to talk a lot more about the public naval and the null implication that the Galician Union has with that, that all it does is make electoral promises so soon they don't remain in the realization and, of course, it won't be the fault of the BNG.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u180	He has so much inconsistencies in his speech on industrial policy that, unfortunately, he has to say empty things of content, just slogans and, unfortunately, he doesn't want to talk about industrial politics. Now come here to transfer the government's bet to the strategic sectors. But if we clearly saw him move. I've never heard of the determining support of the Nationalist Block Galego to the project of Rozas to develop an aeronautical project of R+D+i, for example. But if you want to talk about other initiatives, such as Reganosa, which are also against you, you're against Ence, you're against Elnosa. But as you always come here, Mrs. Presas, to criticize everything, to criticize everything... [[Murmurs.]] They're critical if we get a load of work and if we can't, too. They're critical if Pemex bets on Galicia and if there's a risk he's leaving, too. It doesn't matter. You don't care, they just come here because it seems that's the goal that motivates them. In any case, Your Honor, the bet on the naval sector, I don't think this Government has to give lessons, what it has to give it are support and initiatives, nothing more. But as long as you come here talking about the naval sector is to criticize the naval sector itself, so we will continue to work for the naval sector, we will continue to work and support innovation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I see you don't know about the Naval 4.0 project, which you don't know about the Star project 4.0; the two that are in the field of innovation supported by this government. We continued to support the yards, we supported the Barreras, in a situation that was in a liquidation tender process and this government supported a loan, too, to Barreras so he could get out of that contest. We will therefore continue to support the naval sector and in a situation, Your Honor, in which Galicia is currently leading the hiring of ships by 66%. We managed to diversify the shipbuilding sector. He doesn't want to talk about Astano now. Astano had been unemployed for 10 years and, at the moment, he is, Your Honor, 240 million euros in offshore wind which is developing by Navantia in Astano. And so, Your Honor, a situation in which Pemex played a decisive role, I insist, Pemex played a decisive role in the recovery of the naval sector and Pemex continues to support the naval sector with its participation in Barriers and promoting new contracts for the naval sector. So, Your Honor, no unmet promises, concrete facts and a reality in the naval sector that today has nothing to do with what we have to do in 2009 after 4 years of abandonment of the naval sector by the Bipartite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u181	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Lago Peñas, from G.P. of En Marea on the deterioration in the distribution of employment by age in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u182	Mr. Lake Peñas' question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u183	I'm glad I'm going to hit the record of the shortest question in the history of Parliament in Galicia: In the third quarter of 2007, in Galicia, 459,600 people under the age of 35. Now, in the same quarter of 2016, it's only 257.300. 200,300, where are they?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u184	Thank you, Mr. Lago. The Economic, Employment and Industry Councillor answers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u185	Your Honor, you know that I have a lot of respect for you from the point of view of your knowledge of the labour market. But if you intend to simplify in this way the reality of the labour market and, therefore, all the elements that influence evolution itself, I think we will be making, frankly, a wrong diagnosis and, therefore, if we have a wrong diagnosis, we will not be able to find the right solutions. [[Applause]] The reality of the labour market, Your Honor, is that we are actually marking a trend towards recovery of clear employment — in the last year of 20,000 jobs — that we are talking about young people and girls — which is the fact that you reflect — in the year 10,500 have recovered their occupation and, most importantly, also, 78% — to give a supplementary figure — has a full-time job. So we're talking -- I insist -- about a complex issue, not only about busy people, because then we can also talk about the aging rate, we can talk about the birth rate, and we could also talk about migration data, which, as you know, have a positive balance for Galicia in recent years. So I think that, I say, when we talk about children under 30, we have to talk about how we have to accompany the measures so that they can actually regain their job prospects. And I think that's where we're working; I think, frankly, that's where we're working. 47% of the employees hired with counseling support are under 30 years of age, 47%. In addition, as you know, for two years we have been developing the Youth Guarantee Programme, which is equipped with 16 million euros. We are making an important insertion through the work guides, and we are training them — the most important training - on Thursdays, about 10,000 pupils under 30 years of age took part in the training courses. And we're also making it easier for children under 30 years of age to engage and therefore incentives for self-employment. I think that effort has results. We have at this time — to give a figure that will make it possible to compensate for its — half the unemployed young people under the age of 30 that we had at the beginning of the first legislation, half. And so I think that -- I say -- we're taking steps... I think what we have to do is in that Youth Guarantee Plan, where we had a meeting this week with the Government and we're going to work together for greater accessibility to the Youth Guarantee Plan and more resources will be given in the Youth Guarantee Programme itself to give these young people opportunities so they can find these opportunities and they can be incorporated into the labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u186	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u187	Nor by asking the specific and concise question is it possible to get an answer, Counselor. 202,300 people under 35 are not working in this country. I chose the year 2007 to see — as Olaya did — if it wasn't the problem of sharing the blame, was it? I chose the year 2007. 202,300 people are missing in the country. Some aren't born, others are out. It's hard to understand that we have a positive migration balance when 202,300 new people are missing. If, above all, we have a positive migration balance, I don't know where the problem is. Counsellor, there are many of them out there, and those who are inside are discouraged because, as you know, the rate of activity of people under 35 has fallen into six points — 32,000 — and they are also unemployed. You make a trick — you know it and disappoint me — because you use the 2012 data that we were at the bottom of it. Use the data from 2009 or 2007, where you weren't ruling -- 35,000 unemployed under 35 years of age. And that's the problem this country is facing, which has to do with demographics, but it has to do with, above all, the level of employment, quality of employment, opportunities of life for people. And we're building a society, counselor, indelibly. In 2007, people under 35 were 37% of the total labour market, one in three workers was a young person; now it's one in five. It's over. The feeling I have, Counselor, is that the Government of the United States on this subject is like the orchestra of the Titanic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u189	We're on our way to the rocks...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u190	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u191	Today the news of how demographic evolution was in the first six months of the year. We're on our way to the rocks and you're still like the Titanic orchestra, playing the song. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u192	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u193	Mr. Lago, data from the year 2007. See, in 2007 it was the largest volume of juvenile emigration that took place in Galicia from the entire last series: 13,970 young people left Galicia. Between 2008 and 2015 — data from the National Institute of Statistics — more than 3,916 boys entered Galicia. That's the data of juvenile emigration, it's the data, National Institute of Statistics. What is it true that the labour market situation is very complex? I'll take it. What is it true that we should also talk about the Demographic Plan? I'll take it. What does it really need to talk about how to open up new opportunities for these Thursdays so that they can find quality employment and, therefore, they can develop work from the point of view of new jobs in innovation and new technologies? I'll take it. But what I can't accept is that you intend to make the rule of exception; no, I can't accept it. I don't have a tendency with a data either, because that's not strict. And I have it for a very strict person and, therefore, I don't think the exception makes the rule and no data makes the trend. The trend we have right now — that is if it's a trend — is that at present 50 people in Galicia find work a day, that's a trend. And that we have to work so that there will be more opportunities and that there will be more quality opportunities I fully agree with, and in the case of Thursdays, especially. And we have a context to work on: the Youth Guarantee Programme; a two-year programme, which is opening opportunities for young people in all fields — in the field of training, in the field of entrepreneurship, in the field of social economy, too — and which, I say, with the agreement reached this week, will allow for greater accessibility of children under 30 years of age for this programme and we will have more funds. And that's where we have to work, see how we can open up these opportunities in the area of entrepreneurship, in the field of social economy, in the field of caring for long-term unemployed people — who are also affected in this age group — and who, therefore, sincerely, have a lot to work on. But I think there's a clear policy, a 2020 Agenda, a clear industrial policy, a clear innovation policy, and there's a policy, therefore, economically thinking, precisely, of marking job creation as a priority. And within that priority, Thursdays, women and long-term unemployed, of course, I think it's the three main priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u194	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda Change
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u195	The next item is the agenda, every time the last question, which was from the People's Parliamentary Group, has been withdrawn. Institutional statement on a request for a pardon from two workers convicted of events at a 2008 transport strike
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-14-DSPG008.u196	And before I finish this session, I have to read an institutional statement that brings the groups to me and that I read textually: "From more than two years ago, they are summoned to Vigo mobilizations and concentrations to ask for the pardon of Carlos Rivas and Serafín Rodríguez, workers who accompany us today, who were sentenced to three years in prison when article 315.3 of the Penal Code was applied to them, paying attention to the rights of the working class, when they were participating in a legal briefing on a strike in the transport sector in 2008. In December 2013, the Council of Ministers denied to Carlos and Serafín the grant of pardon to request the CIG, UGT and CCOO trade unions, along with the support of thousands of signatures of the Greek citizenship, which prompted a new request for pardon, which received the unanimous support of the Galician Parliament in February 2014. Carlos Rivas and Serafín Rodríguez remain convicted and pending that the second plea for pardon be resolved, so the Galician Parliament reiterates its solidarity with them and their families and announces itself in favour of the Council of Ministers immediately taking into consideration the request for partial pardon for Carlos Rivas and Serafín Rodríguez in order to avoid their entry into prison." This is the reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Approved by consent.]] The session is up. This is over.
