ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u1	Good morning. Let's restart the session. First of all, I shall inform the House of an in attendance and delegation of vote. Mrs Luisa Pierres López, who, in the light of Rule 84.3 and Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, has justified her absence, exercises her right to vote for this session in Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez. The Bureau, at its meeting on 8 November, authorized the delegation. And now it is the speech of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. In accordance with the agreed Bureau and Speaker's Board of Auditors of 4 November 2016, each representative of the parliamentary groups may speak for a period of thirty-five minutes. The candidate may challenge the parliamentary groups individually or globally in accordance with Article 136(4) of the Regulation. After the debate, the vote will take place around 6.30 p.m. In any case, without prejudice to the incidences that may arise, they will be notified on time. The first intervention, therefore, now corresponds to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. You have the floor for that to Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I am a candidate for the presidency of the Union, and it is an honour and responsibility for the confidence given to us by the Greeks and the Greeks in order to be your voice in this Parliament. I know it's times of uncertainty, when thousands of people look to the future with concern. It's precisely in times like these when real democracy, politics, are more necessary than ever. The real policy, with capital letters, the policy that doesn't understand short-terms and that runs away from opportunisms, the policy that defends ideas and principles and knows how to put the interests of the country first. And here we're represented with different voices and ideas, but everyone from their scope can bring our big sand. They will always find us in those agreements that serve to defend Galicia, where they serve to defend social rights and why we really leave behind a crisis that so much pain and suffering has caused. We are at a key moment when it comes to rethinking Galicia's future. Play Galician rethink as a project and focus on the future with broad lights. It plays a collective rethinking and redefining the productive model, the social and cultural model of a country in which we have everything to gain. We trust Galicia's potential, and we have alternative ideas and proposals to build that country with equality, prosperity, modern, and proud of what we are and also of what we want to be. But you can hardly come to an agreement with whom you don't see this reality. Mr. Feijóo, you've been asking for union, but you've been dividing for eight years; you've been asking for agreements, but you always end up putting your party's interests and interests above the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks, you always end up betraying Galicia. On the contrary, at the BNG we don't forget that we're here thanks to the people who voted for us. And those people know that we are not going to betray her, that we are not going to betray her trust, nor do we refrain from defending our ideas. And allow me from here to express my sincere thanks to all of you and to each of the people who voted BNG on September 25th. We know of the flow of illusion and hope that accompanies us. I also want to thank all those people who by voting other political options moved us that the only joy they had on the election night was the result of the BNG. And to all those people today who feel that they have nothing to celebrate, I want to tell them that they don't feel defeated or defeated, that we're here with the hand to build together, to build together that Galicia we want, that Galicia where people really have reason to smile and to look confidently at the future. In this important debate I want to make a public recognition to women, to feminism and to fight for equality. Thanks to the women like Rosa Parks, who refused to go in the back seat for being black. Thanks to women like Rosalía de Castro, for publishing in Greek when she was outlawed and for making her a woman at a time when, as she herself said, "women were not allowed to write what they feel and what they know." Thanks also to the anonymous women, to the daily fighters, like my grandmother Carme, a village woman who knew very well what it was working hard and also what it means to have to fight to get out ahead, who with her peasant dignity taught her granddaughters to look at the stars but also to be a little bit freer. [[Applause]] To all of them I want to thank you one day on which is the first time in the history of this House that in an investment debate if you hear a woman's voice. A fact that's not an achievement, it's more evidence of these sticky floors, of these glass ceilings and also of the remaining barriers to women's real equality. But it is also a pride that nationalism, BNG, which we have taken a step forward to feminize politics with facts, because we are tired of words and promises that are not accompanied by realities. We want equality, and we want it now! [[Applause]] We face this investment debate with a very clear premise: we are going to make a strict, rigorous opposition, government control, and we will defend positive initiatives for Galicia to move forward, modernize and shield social and national rights. Mr. Feijóo, today it would be very easy to describe to you and disqualify your entire government proposal by simply appointing your friends. I could remind you here your friend the Narco Martial Dorado, the recipient of Operation Zeta, Mr. Pachi Lucas, but I won't. Our priority is to give them a voice... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u3	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u4	...people who voted for us and gave alternatives for the Greek and the Greek to have solutions to the serious problems that still exist. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, I'm never going to resort to insult or personal disqualification, and I hope you do the same. I hope you don't suffocate democracy for another four years, let this Parliament function in freedom, and start by respecting the opposition we represent here in the same way as you. Because, look, the problem of democracy is not the demonstrations, as you said here in advance. Even Mr. Feijóo has participated in some, right? We could remind you here that assault on the mayors of the People's Party to Parliament. Last Tuesday you displayed as a trophy your absolute majority, which gives you the ability and legitimacy to rule, but that gives you no more reasons. His majority, Mr. Feijó, did not bring happiness. His eight years of government didn't change Lola's life. Lola is 30 years old. She gets up at six in the morning. She works ten hours for 700 euros a month. Do you think you'd be able to live with 700 euros a month? His majority also didn't serve Manuel, who is about to be 50, who has been unemployed for five years; he has stopped looking at the papers because he never gives the profile. You, Mr. Feijóo, certainly stopped looking at the newspaper announcements as well, like Manuel. But his majority is not worth nothing to Rosa — I ask him, please, to listen to him. Rosa has a retirement pension of 632 euros, Alzheimer has been dependent for ten years. Only a few days ago did your daughter just tell you that Rosa has cancer. With a pension of 632 euros you have to pay the contribution of your home — 460 euros — you have to pay the light, you have to pay the heat, you have to pay the food, you have to pay the medicine... and you also have to pay an assistant because it's totally dependent, you need help twenty-four hours a day. You have the recognized dependency, but you haven't seen a single money or any help for that dependency yet. Mr. Feijó, after all this, would you vote for yourself? Can you look into Lola, Manuel or Rosa's eyes and tell them what you're going to do to change all this? Are you going to offer anything different to these meat and bone people? Obviously not, because you're a runaway president, you've introduced yourself to leave, and this is conditioning your priorities and also conditioning your government. But what seems most alarming to me is that you're not willing to change anything or make any mistakes. The promises he made to us on Tuesday are, essentially, the same promises he made four years ago, the same promises he made eight years ago, Mr. Feijóo. These debates are starting to appear on the day of the marmot! Look, I'm going to show you a four-year-old headline. In 2012, investment session: "Feijo announces a fund to create jobs". Year 2016, investment session: "Núñez Feijóo aims to create 100.00 jobs". Year 2012: "Feijó calls for an agreement on the rural environment". Year 2016: "He called for consensus on the rural environment". Mr. Feijó, you must recognize him that you are a great propagandist, but his propaganda does not feed the people of this country, nor does it make us go forward. Look, I've got here too the Parliamentary Journal of Sessions in Galicia. In this paper you told us four years ago that Galicia was in better condition to get out of the crisis. Six days ago: "Galicia destroys jobs while the rest of Spain wins busy." Do you really think this is getting out of the crisis? The crusader reality is that we don't leave the well, and I'm going to tell you more, we're not going out of the well until there's structural changes. Galicia has to be able to decide on key aspects of the economy to move forward, but its immobility is a disaster for our economy to progress and modernise. In the middle of 2016 we need something more than a fossilized autonomy, which is a suit made according to the 1980s. We've been telling you since BNG for eight years that to move forward, fundamental changes, confidence in Galicia and country ambition are needed. And let me give you some key examples: First, the financing model needs to be changed. Mr. Feijóo, every time you come here, at the investment session, you tell us that we have to change the financing model, but we've lost eight years. We need more money, more resources to be able to finance better health care, education, social services, dependence, boost employment... we need that more than 3,000 million euros a year from the state, but they don't return to Galicia, are used for the benefit of the Greeks and the Greeks. But you, inexplicably, refuse to have full fiscal autonomy and a Greek farm, and still prefer that Mr. Montoro be whoever has the key to the money of the Greeks and the Greeks. Secondly, we told you that it was essential to have a strategy to recover the financial power stolen from the liquidation of savings banks, but you were an accomplice in that 9,000 million euro policy. We're still proposing a Greek public bank. We bet from BNG for having an electric power control, which at present we produce without basically no benefit to the country. You didn't want a Greek electric fare either. Or, finally, we've been eight years, eight years!, Mr. Feijóo, telling him that a strategic bet was needed for R & D+i politics, because betting for science was betting for the leader, but you cut here too. In all these issues, Mr. candidate for the presidency, you have never militated in Galicia, you have always been a militant of your party's interests. He didn't defend Galicia's interests, nor raised his voice once or for all so that we wouldn't be invited by stone on vital themes for our future. We're children of decisions that are being made hundreds of miles from us. So since the BNG we say very clearly: we have to overcome this fossilized autonomy. We need a new status for Galicia that gives us instruments so that we can really face the challenges we have: that if we are recognized as what we are, a proud nation in the world; that we are allowed to decide on key aspects of our economy; that we have a Welsh farm to collect our taxes; to fix an advanced letter of social rights and to shield the public services of privatization. These measures are bold and courageous measures, and they would have caused Galicia to be in better condition to leave the well. We lost the opportunity to make a productive money order. You, Mr. Feijóo, could do it, but he didn't have the courage to do it. But this is not what happened elsewhere. So let's talk, for example, about what's going on with renewables, which are key to coping with climate change. While many countries have abandoned a model based on traditional energy production, what is happening in Galicia and the State? Because the PP stopped wind development, eliminated renewable premiums and imposed firing measures, like a sun tax. And in the meantime, worldwide, there's an exponential growth in green energy. In the last year renewable energy has grown by 23.5% in Germany, in China it has grown by 21%. And the question is, why is this happening? Who benefits from this? Endesa, Iberdrola, Natural Gas, who continue to maintain their oligopolie and indecent benefits. Mr. Feijóo, of course, you anticipate the turning doors, which guarantee you golden retreats, that we democratize energy and that we defend that energy is from the Greeks and the Greeks, and that we have the right to benefit from it. [[Applause]] Clearly, others were brave and you were cowards. Let me give you an example. Right now there are hundreds of families on the Death Coast who are waiting to see what decision you make about the speculative sale of the Xallas River power stations. Will you anticipate Villar Mir's speculative interests or defend the future of the Galician families? We are convinced, Mr. Feijóo, that you are a militant from Galicia. [[Applause]] Let us speak, Mr Feijóo, of productive sectors. He promised us the same thing four years ago, the same thing eight years ago. Once again the day of the marmot! I'll refresh your memory, if you'll excuse me. Four years ago, right here in this room, you promised us: fund for growth, with investments in structural reforms for milk and forestry, prioritizing innovation; talent capture program: it would retain the best-trained researchers and bring researchers from outside into strategic areas. Mexican oil was to be installed at the Langosteira point, establishing its logistics base in Europe; the Mexican oil fleet was to be renewed in Galicia; it was to promote, Mr Feijóo, the reorganisation of the mountain, reduce the fires and expand the territorial base of the farms. Plan of industrialization of the Italian countryside; new business routes for auxiliary industries; the greatest wind competition in history. Mr. Feijó, those are your promises. Four years later, you don't have any trouble -- not for a moment -- that your word doesn't serve anything? The paradise you promise is not won at the lowest milk prices in the state. Paradise has not come to the people of the sea, who always have problems with quotas and unsanitary laughter. Paradise is not in the navy either, more than 4,000 jobs have been lost. Paradise is not in the automotive sector either, more than 30 auxiliary companies have been relocated to Portugal, 3,000 jobs have been lost. We need a new sustainable development model, which bets on decent and equal employment, which has its backbone in the basic sectors and research. You, Mr. Feijóo, could double the budget at R+D+i, but you didn't. You could make innovation the guarantee of the food sector, the forest sector or the transformation of stone and wood, you didn't. You could strengthen innovation in other sectors, such as naval, textile, automotive, combat relocation, you didn't. You could bet on biotechnology, on robotics, on chemical technologies, on health technologies, you didn't. You could defend the naval, you didn't. You could defend fair prices and a group of Greek milk, but you didn't. Mr. Feijóo, did you at any time have any serious and solvent projects for Galicia? We've been lost for eight years, and I'm very afraid it'll be sweet at this step. I told him, at the beginning of my speech, that most of the People's Party didn't bring happiness, and I want to tell you now that neither did they whiten corruption. His commitment to corruption — and I recognize him — is at the same level as that of his party. A commitment that, I don't know, maybe you can measure facts, like a code of good practices sponsored by Ana Mato. To me, given in perspective, it almost seems to me a joke worthy of Gila. But if you'll excuse me, today I'm going to read a quote from someone, who I think might interest you, or who can, at least, inspire you: "Not everything is to improve laws. There are corners where the law can't reach, but those we also have to attend to. I am referring to the exemplaryness of our conduct, because beyond fulfilling the law that is what citizens expect of us: let us be exemplary in driving us in public life." End of the quote, which Mr. Rajoy would say, which is who these words belong to. [[Applause]] Mr. Feijóo, do you really think that this ethical code is compatible with keeping Mr. Baltar as president of the Ourense People's Party and President of the Parliament? [[Applause]] Do you believe that the exemplaryness of what the People's Party is talking about is compatible with room 505 of the Hotel San Francisco II and with asking for sex in exchange for jobs in the Deputy? Is that the exemplaryness you stand for, Mr. Feijóo? I know you don't like to say these things, that it bothers you the truth, has a very difficult relationship with her -- I know -- I also know that if I could, right now, I would do the same thing on the TVG: turn us off, disconnect us, that you don't listen to the opposition. Look, you've been committed for eight years to the appointment of the director of the TVG by this Parliament. He's still the same director you named his finger eight years ago. But corruption is not only in "b", corruption is also in "a": corruption is hidden behind lies and that is also in the BOE and the DOG. There's the corruption of an immoral extension to the Ence to continue contaminating for sixty more years the river of Pontevedra and fostering the monoculture of the eucalyptus. Corruption is also in the lack of investigation into the English accident. Let's get on the side of the victims and the truth, Mr. Feijóo. Are you willing to cooperate with the truth or will it still be a cap so we know what happened and never see such an accident again in our country? [[Applause]] Corruption, Mr. Feijóo, is also in the rescues of the bank and the builders. In this country there are judgments condemning people for stealing food from more than three years in prison. And those who got rid of the boxes, which caused a breakdown of billions of public euros, are still walking around like lords in this country without assuming any responsibility. This happened with his complicity. You four years ago compromised an investigation. And yes, of course, it was a commission, but it was a commission to which it was neither actually left to investigate nor to complete its work. What do you have to hide, Mr. Feijóo? Are we going to have another investigation commission stacked up and tied to feet and hands? But let's talk about other legal scams. Let's talk about something that concerns the Greeks and the Greeks who have to circulate every day for AP-9. You committed yourself eight years ago to reaching the transfer of AP-9 and also AP-53. As a result: higher rates and the veto on the part of the People's Party to the debate of a law adopted unanimously in this Parliament. We are already seeing with facts, Mr Feijóo, what is your weight in Madrid: the weight pen. [[Applause]] But this, Mr. Feijóo, is not all. Rajoy's government plans to allocate 8,000 million euros to rescue the ruined Madrid highways made by Bankia and its party's friendly builders. We propose an agreement: we advocate that not one single public euro should be set up to rescue the builders and the bank that have spent over their capabilities and that we have spent that money to rescue the Greeks and the Greeks who have tightened the belt of the abusive peas of AP-9. Set time and day, Mr. Feijó. We'll be out of condition there, the Galician Nationalist Block won't plant Galicia. Show us once again that you are a militant of Galicia. He also spoke to us here, looking for an easy headline, of demography — by the way, just like four years ago, again the day of the marmot. But his plans and his model are sharpening this problem: in his last legislation — listen — 60,000 Greeks and Greeks less, 60,000 Greeks and Greeks less! We know that this is a complex problem that, in fact, is not solved by its "Finnish boxes." It is about decent and quality employment, it is about measures to reconcile and really equality. And it's fundamental for a country like ours that people don't emigrate, but you always minimize the problem of emigration, and so, Mr. Feijóo, it's impossible. Let's propose another big deal: a pact for youth to return, a plan returns, that we allocate at least 1% of the board's budgets to get those who left and want to get their chance back to Galicia. Are you ready, Mr. Feijóo? But we also talk about rights, freedoms and public services. Here you created the perfect storm: precarious labour reforms, bite laws to curb social protest, cuts of public services and privatizations that endanger people's health and lives. And in all this, the excuse always, always, was the crisis. If we accept your arguments, right now, once the crisis has passed, there's no reason to have to keep the cuts. I want to remind you, Mr. Feijóo, also your commitments: "He said that Galicia will leave the well in 2015." If there's no crisis, why are there cuts? Put in place a rescue plan for public services, starting at Vigo Hospital. It rests the doctors and professors cut off, waged by the fight against poverty, by a income of social integration, eliminates compensation in medicines and supplies of the necessary money to the Dependency Act. I bet with pride on our creators and creators, stop squandering more money in this City of Culture, which is a bottomless bag. We have talent in the country. The theatre, the literature, the plastic arts and the audiovisuals show us every day their capacity and their potential. Supports talent and recovers the Council of Culture. Mr. Feijó, you must start a new stage in the education system. Don't play with the education of our children and our children. Leave LOMCE behind, the revals and the cuts, and think that very little is worth computers in the classrooms if there are no teachers and teachers. We want an educational system that is equalitarian, where the daughter of a peasant, like me, has the same opportunity to go to university as the daughter of an entrepreneur like Amancio Ortega. Stop cropping in public education to give it to private education. We need, Mr Feijóo, a teaching that doesn't segregate the student according to his sex, stop financing this apartheid. Ladies and gentlemen, how are we going to deal with violence against women if there are institutions that are financing inequality, like you with these centers? How are we going to end male terrorism if they don't consider it a state problem? On Tuesday Mr. Feijóo had unlimited time to be able to speak in this House, and he didn't have a minute to talk about violence against women. 55 women have been murdered since this century, there are over 50,000 complaints of gender-based violence in the courts, and less than one minute and zero proposals to discuss such a serious issue, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] In spite of this, we hear his hand to put violence as one of the major problems of our country, that we make a pact, but a pact with deadlines, with real measures, with proposals and budgets. We can shake hands, it's up to you. And I want, in this sense, to ask you to stop talking about ghost plans and really have a commitment to women's rights. It assumes the commitment that any woman who freely decides to abort or who, for whatever reason, has to do so will be able to do so in the best conditions in public health in this country. Do not allow, Mr. Feijóo, that no other woman will ever pass through the same calvary as 33-year-old Paula, who had to go in his car to abort 600 kilometers from his house because in public health they refused to give him abortion, a eusenic abortion. Because of this neglect, Paula lost her womb and can't be a mother. It seemed to me very good that you had apologized to Paula, which I am unable to understand is how compatible it is that you are in solidarity with Paula in the morning and in the evening your health counsellor says they will appeal against the judgment. Don't make that trouble, Mr. Feijóo, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u5	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u6	Commitment to equality is not measured in words but in facts. Likewise, Mr. Feijóo, commitment to the language is not measured in declarations of love either. Our language is what binds us to all the Greeks and all the Greeks, it is an inheritance that we have to care for and transmit to the generations that come after us. English is useful because it is the language of Galicia, but it is useful because it opens the doors of the Lusophony and allows us to learn other languages. You know, Mr. Feijóo, that the only language in this country is Greek. You have the opportunity to rectify your mistake of attacking the language by a handful of votes. Open a new stage for the Galician language of respect and normality. Put in place a new decree in teaching, comply with what we agreed on in 2004 — there is already an agreement that you have dynamite. Make sure that the children and children of this country are going to dominate Greek so that they will soon have the freedom to decide which language they want to use. Because, Mr. Feijóo, there's something you've never been able to explain to us: why should we attack the English language? Tell him in his replica if he has a chance. Mr. Feijóo, don't rob children and children of the right to dream and to love in English. [[Applause]] We are also moving forward in other areas: in justice, in public administration — removing all setbacks — in the media, in technology... there is a whole ocean where we work in a positive way for the country. Do you know, Mr. Feijóo, that only by ensuring that there must be telephone attention in Galicia in Welsh could 2,000 jobs be created? Do you know that if that were done by the more than 100 people who are pending an ERE in the Coruña in Extel, wouldn't they have that sword of Damocles on their heads at that time? I think it's worth it. Mr. Feijóo, here you have another wonderful opportunity to show us with facts that he's militating in Galicia and that he's fighting in Galicia. And finished, Mr. Feijó. I don't want the life of the Greeks and the Greeks to become that kind of day of the marmot. You've achieved an absolute majority, nobody talks to him. His majority didn't bring happiness. Most of them don't rob us of a single apex of the desire to fight, to work, to change things. I tell you with all humility but also with all honesty: most of us will not be prevented from continuing to defend that Galicia is a people who are entitled to rule, that it is a people who are entitled to something more than, if we did, we would have many more options to move forward and make progress; most of them do not prevent us from dreaming and working for a change of regime, why we leave behind this corrupt regime, and overcome the failure of a failed transition. My generation has every right in the world to question a pact that has consolidated the monarchy, NATO, militarism, the privileges of the Church, this democratic and neoliberal European Union. We are non-conformists and revolted by leaving a precarious country in possession, with emigration, with privatized public services and without identity. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, most of them don't scare us or scare us. On the contrary, it gives us much more strength to work every day for that Galicia frees us in a world of equal and peaceful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u8	Mr President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, Mr candidate, I spoke on behalf of the Socialists and Socialists in Galicia in this investment debate, a special investment, because Mr Núñez Feijóo has already announced that it will be the last. He's starting to say good-bye. All right, it's an opportunity, an opportunity to get lost in the maze of Spanish politics, or a unique opportunity to overcome the biases, to overcome past mistakes and progress among all. I invite you to use this last channel. Galicia is something more than her party -- it doesn't reduce it to him, because then we'll all lose it -- it's more plural, more diverse. And if you want to count on what we think differently, this hemicycle is the right place to do it. He is no more Greek who most often proclaims or pronounces the word "Galicia", but who most feels his land and more defends his culture and his tongue. Love her and feel her go with the person, she's not in charge, Mr. Feijóo. I have to tell you that we have a crisis of political representation, which is not specific to Galicia, not even Spain, which, as we see, is all over the world. More than a million citizens from Galicia entitled to vote did not vote for any of the forces that we are represented here, and they only endorsed their policies — despite the absolute majority — three out of every ten potential voters in Galicia. He had the absolute majority but he lost more than 100,000 votes in relation to the 2009 elections. It doesn't remove any legitimacy, none, we've lost more, indeed. Yes, yes, it does not remove any legitimacy. And besides, I use it to congratulate you on the results. But that situation that affects all political forces — not only those in the opposition, but also those who have won the elections — forces us all, but specifically the Government, to be more prudent, to be more open. [[Applause]] Some time ago he said a political analyst, Mr. Torres Mora, who is present, above all, a crisis of diagnosis. His speech was a tangible proof. Renouncing a balance after eight years of government is a symptom of a certain voluntary blindness. We want to open the curtain, let it between some light, make a synthesis, make a tight balance of what it was these eight years. My synthesis is the following -- and then I'll detail it -- demography is regressive, the economy is weak, the social landscape is devastated, and the autonomic administration is weaker. Not everything depends on your governments, I don't make that simplification. The global European situation — by the way, Europe has been completely absent from its speech — and the specific Spanish situation has a good deal of responsibility for what happened in Galicia as well, but its policies — in my opinion, in our opinion — have aggravated the problems, have not solved them, and that is why we aspire to change. In Galicia's demographics, we've been less than decades, we're among the most regressive, older areas in Europe. Fertility falls, from the beginning of the democratic period, to one child per woman, which is an extremely low figure. We were essentially in disagreement with its 2011 demographic revitalization plan -- I don't know if you remember -- because we thought it was wrong in the diagnosis -- the diagnosis was that the Greeks had a mental problem -- and therefore it was also wrong in the proposed measures, focused primarily on advertising and propaganda. That's why we voted against at that time. A few years later, we see that demography doesn't go the same way but worse than in 2011, so we have to ask him what evaluation he makes of that plan, what he thinks he's wrong about that plan, what he needs to change for things to get better, because they haven't been since. I give you my position: the families want two children and they have one, but they want two. So we have to make this difference between the wishes and the effective decisions that are made within families. This is what needs to be changed how? By acting on the working conditions, on conciliation, on the distribution of household tasks, on the availability of services or on a policy of child assistance. You proposed in the campaign the famous "Finnish Box", which is electoral marketing. I'm telling you, if you really want to make Galicia the best place to build a family, you must replace the "Finnish Box" with a Finnish policy. And if you do this, there'll be our support. [[Applause]] The demographic problem, in addition, is not reduced to birth, we have to talk about emigration as well. The mirrorism of immigration we've had for a few years lasted a short time, since 2008 we've been a country of migrants again. You're talking about voluntary external mobility, but there's overwhelming evidence that this doesn't really pick up the phenomenon. Daniel in London, Teresa in Paris, Manuel in Atlanta, Uxia I don't know, in Canada, others in Doha, or Australia. We captured 17,000 people from the outside in net terms in 2008, and now we lose a few thousand every year. Right, it's an emigration different from the classic, with more level of training, with more contacts, with more social capital, which maintains the relationship with Galicia, but it's still emigration. And their effects on our territory can be even more serious: in the human capital we lost, in the smallest remittances and in the weakness of the expectation of return. We have to take this seriously. It's not a phenomenon that we should minimize or hide. External mobility must be balanced, it must be voluntary, it must be transient, it must be an option for Thursdays. That's why we proposed in the campaign a return program, so we also support the difficulties faced by returnees in taxation or access to basic services. Let's talk about the crisis. Let's talk about the economy. The crisis has had a huge negative impact on wealth production or employment. The recovery is in progress, but it's in progress with shyness and delay. There was an economic regression between 2008 and 2015 deeper than the Spanish average. There's a less lively recovery. We'll be late, then, more back to the point of departure, than we're still far away. Between 2008 and 2015, we lost, for example, 10 points in convergence with the average of the European regions. We don't deny recovery, but if we underline their shyness since 2013. It is encouraged, in addition, by permitting factors in the international environment that, after some recent election results, are probably more at stake than ever. In addition, this recovery was insufficient for the recovery and recomposition of the labour market. We must use it, we must strengthen it first and use it later, to build a Galicia for all. And that must be just one of the axes of this legislation. The international crisis has led to a fundamental restructuring of the Galician economy: construction has lost foot, the primary sector has weakened, manufacturing has overall fallen very intensively, as well as financial activities and other branches of the service sector. The EREs, the closures of companies, are so numerous that they cease to be news. I don't say that everything goes wrong or that all the policies that we have set in motion since Galicia are a failure: family matrix groups duplicate their dimension every four years, Index is a world reference, in the automobile we resist quite well in a set of extreme difficulty — with the unknown of Portuguese competition —; aquaculture, food and drink production, conventional energy and some services such as tourism resist; internationalization, with all the difficulties, is making progress properly. But they'll buy us more companies in Galicia than we've acquired, and we've lost decision-making capacity for foreign capital. And the overall balance of industry, despite these sectors and these positive companies, is negative. The 2008 wind competition was wounded in death by its government. Attempts to boost new concessions have clashed with legal resources, with the new regulation of Minister Soria and also with the new context, with falling prices in the energy sector. Aiming for a very ambitious renewable energy supply is fine, Mr. Feijóo, but since 2009 no wind energy megawatt has been installed in Galicia; only 28, to be exact, almost nothing. I make an effort to avoid turning this topic into a wear tool and to propose solutions. That is why I propose to set up a special parliamentary commission that will promote a new regulation of the sector in Galicia and give new impetus to the renewable energy sector in Galicia that will allow us to regain lost time. Seven years ago we discussed the difficulties of the dairy sector. You talked about it four years ago. Of course, the producer sector has done its job, but there is still a serious imbalance between supply and processing possibilities, there is little cooperative organization and the market power of producers has not been strengthened — on the contrary, has weakened. We are going to support all the initiatives, and specifically those of a cooperative basis, which boost the transformation capacity, generate more added value and increase the negotiating power of producers, and move towards that great objective which must be the establishment of a Greek milk group capable of decisively intervening in the market in this sector. But we've lost too many years, and while claiming that this has to be the primary sector legislation, as you've done similarly in 2012, there's really not a single proposal for the dairy sector in your speech. We must look after the inhabitants of the rural and coastal world who strive to seek a dignified future. Milk or meat production, wine and fruit, artisanal fishing and mythology need attention and specific proposals to gain security for the future and increase the generation of added value. He didn't. As we must take care of Santiago's ways, to prevent them from dying of success, through a continuous improvement that defends their values. The Competitiveness Agenda 4.0 would be worth a detailed discussion. I don't have time to do it. But I'm telling you, our divergences are not really in the target, they're in the form of their application, they're in the absence of effective social dialogue with business organizations, who must also participate in this application. We strongly insist on the need to refound the Igape because it doesn't work. We insist on the need to manage with a more demanding criterion the supply and promotion of industrial soil. We insist on reducing bureaucracy, and for that we propose to create a specialized unit within the Government that promotes the necessary changes in legislation in collaboration with business organizations, going beyond the audit you promised. We insist on strengthening R & D+i and training. It is necessary to double the expenditure on R & D+i in this legislation because current indicators are too low, they place us at the level of countries like Ukraine in terms of expenditure on GDP. And we propose to promote a body that complements the consolidation of university research similar to what already exists in Basque Country or Catalonia, combating the precariousness of research and thus completing the entire chain that has been building over these years. Half of the funds provided for in Agenda 4.0 are intended to support investment financially. We will be vigilant about that application, about that effectiveness. We need to strengthen the decisions made by companies that we already have about their investments and attract, above all, more external investments. We haven't done enough in these years, we only attract 1% of the direct external investment in Spain, 1%. How do you plan on improving these indicators? Are there any concrete proposals for this? Traditional growth factors are exhausted, and we need to be more intensive — i.e. to focus on productivity — so that we can be more extensive, to cope with demographic recovery and job creation while we are able to make wage income better. Labour market indicators — to continue the balance sheet — are the ones that best summarize the failure of the economic policy of their governments since 2008. The behavior of the indicators in Galicia is worse than the Spanish average. In addition, differences are worsened in the last legislation. The triple that in Spain, the double that in Spain, the adjustment in assets and occupations is very concentrated under the age of 35, we're aging too much at the labour base, we're wasting our skills, talents and knowledge we're sending abroad. It's not just the crisis, it's also the economic policy and the labour policy that has been followed in these years. There's an additional job quality problem. Undefined contracts fall and part-time occupation increases, so that we do not talk about wages and working conditions. And despite the fall of the assets, the level of unemployed increases considerably, at a rate that doubles Spanish, which is a social issue of first magnitude, especially due to the growing lack of coverage of unemployment insurance, which is now covering only one quarter of the unemployed in Galicia. A problem that affects mostly long-term unemployed people, with about 100,000 people who have been unemployed for over two full years. We need a specific policy for these social sectors, avoiding the rise in inequality and poverty. It's true that in recent quarters, the hand of recovery, there's a reduction in the number of unemployed, but we've only been able to recover a little more than 30% of the jobs lost during the crisis. In Spain, in this same period, it was more than 50%. It is at stake with this data the sustainability of Galicia as an advanced autonomous society, with powerful welfare systems and economic dynamism. It only works to live in Galicia today, in the external market, one out of every three people; the rest depends familiarly on the first or depends on the public system of redistribution, which is being weakened by adjustment policies. Today — they allow me to simplify, and I know it is — they are often the biggest, through pensions, those who support children and grandchildren. This is a simplification, but it translates a real problem, and we must reverse the situation to be a normal country again. And today, in Galicia, being a normal country in this dimension is a quasi-revolutionary goal, because it implies a change of economic model and social model of enormous magnitude. The priority is employment, we agree with you. Lowering unemployment by 10% is an acceptable target, whenever it is made about the expansion of the labour base rather than the expulsion of assets. We're committed to creating 100,000 additional jobs in the legislation is fine, but it'd be better if I told you which tools will drive business decisions to achieve this result. We proposed four throughout the campaign: we proposed substantially reforming the public employment system, making it a Galician employment agency, with more capacities, with more expertise and more means; a shock program for the inclusion of youth and long-term unemployed, where we would invest 100 million euros each year; a return programme; and a boost to training, with particular attention to dual FP, but also to other alternatives to training in employment. In addition, we agree that it is essential to better address the needs of self-employed and entrepreneurs. You assume your successes in this matter and you want to make Galicia the most favourable place to be autonomous. Okay, but I have to remind you that since you've been president, there are 15,000 less self-sufficient in Galicia, according to statistics. We need, therefore, a new strategy. It seems good to us that you have this objective, but it brings this strategy to Parliament, we discuss it, we improve it and we do everything possible to correct this situation. Social inequalities have increased greatly in Spain in recent years by globalization, technological change, the crisis — with its consequences on employment — and by adjusting social policies and other factors. In Galicia, too. We don't especially highlight negative data, but inequalities have greatly increased, and you haven't talked about this subject. The middle-aged and professional classes lose status, lose expectations, are desperate. The least qualified workers are the most directly affected by competition in other areas, by the mechanization, by the deterioration of the labour market, by the reform that reduces the capacity for trade union bargaining; from telemarketing operators to supermarket cashiers or construction workers; they are all affected by these same problems. It's no wonder that, according to statistics, half a million people live in homes with lack of material and 136,000 suffer from severe material shortages, which affects mostly minors. There is significant child poverty in Galicia, in the same country as Index or Invervante, and this is not tolerable. [[Applause]] Its policy against social precariousness is very insufficient. Risga reaches only 9,000 people. We're moving towards minimum income systems, making an additional effort in resourceless families and with financially fit children. We proposed in the campaign a special programme against child poverty, to which we would also allocate around 100 million euros, which would not limit aid to 3-year-olds, as is the promise you made in your investment speech. This program would take care of the current's emergencies and prepare the future, returning pride and hope to many people: reforming and expanding Risk and promoting a child protection system. I repeat these ideas to you, make them yours. Let's not leave anyone behind. Why isn't it more ambitious on this subject, Mr. candidate? The biggest ones lost purchasing power, but they capped the tempore, although they have the lowest average pensions in Spain. We're exhausting the reserve fund, as it is well known. With 800,000 pensioners in Galicia we can't be indifferent nor can we be shy about solutions. Your proposals in this matter we don't know them, they're nonexistent. We will make up for these initiatives which we will bring to this Parliament. The strict fulfilment of deficit targets has been their clearest policy in these years, because of necessity; by calculation, surely also by political calculation. But at the same time, every 3 euros in debt of the Union more than 2 were produced during its mandates. So your speech has a dose of contradiction. You have criticised the accounts of the Touriño period, when they closed with surplus and the debt was adjusted, and you assume tax control, when you've been closing your accounts with deficits for eight years, and at the same time you've greatly increased your debt. Yes, yes, at the same time as we suspended growing, we suspended in employment and there's a cut, a brutal adjustment, of public investment, which is the fate that should have just the debt. The Galician Union decided to stand aside from the FLA. In principle, it's a good decision that guarantees our autonomy. What happens is that the FLA has expanded without a date. Conditionality has not been exercised in practice, financed all the expenditure incurred by autonomous communities, including those who were unauthorized deficits, and did so at zero cost in a few years for these communities. We have the paradox that those who spend too much are funded by the Central Administration in preferential conditions and without any real control. How much does it cost us to be out of the FLA? It would be good if Parliament knew that figure. Let's agree to end that instrument as soon as possible because it is harming those fulfilling communities like Galicia. And, towards the future, he hasn't clarified his fiscal policy, he hasn't quantified his proposals. Our accounts are very difficult for us. What cost and timetable does it commit to the recovery of the purchasing power of officials, for example? Are you going to continue adjusting your spending? The European Commission demands 7.500 million for the Spanish package. With what criteria and with what priorities? Do we do everything to the intensity of an uncertain economic recovery and its effects on income? He's talking about lowering taxes, but he didn't quote any. And at the same time, I tell you that our position is that a solid, efficient and fair tax system is the key to the state of well-being. Let us review the tax benefits by evaluating them in terms of effectiveness and contribution to equity. They matter more, Mr. Candidate, the actual average types than the formal marginal types. If we go up those and get down these, we'll be doing a good job. And we fight fiscal fraud by developing Atriga and collaborating with the Tax Agency. The greatest uncertainties and risks are in the field of self-financing. The situation is complex. The idea of "ordinality", driven from Catalonia, is not an acceptable criterion, because it breaks the equal treatment. The basic criterion should be that of equal coverage of expenditure needs, weighing dispersion, aging and overaging. Galicia in this context has only two strengths: social and political unity, first, and intelligence in the formulation and management of proposals, then. I was concerned about the limited realization and ambition of your proposals. And I propose that you set up a parliamentary committee to decide on a unitary position in this area in relation to the reform of self-financing, whenever you agree to maintain Galicia's relative position in adjusted per capita funding. It is also necessary to promote transparency, public exemplaryness, control of corruption. You have made no progress in this matter. I propose that you turn transparency into an effective principle of behaviour, with a Nordic law of inspiration, which creates a register of interests for lobbyists, which creates an anti-fraud office, and that we develop the legislation needed to protect internal complainants. It is necessary to understand that Galicia is at a political, economic and social crossroads. "The times change," the Nobel Dylan would say. We change political culture to incorporate more participation and more responsibility. So far we have made the administration of resources that come from outside and that grew every year. Now we need to do self-government, with more participation and more internal responsibility. We need to build at the same time a new economic model that will enable us to overcome the crisis and be more inclusive. We must not only import the impulses of Spanish and European economic growth; the goal must be to do better than the rest of the competing regions. That's what it means for us to be proud of Galicia. I'm particularly concerned about your forgetting and disregarding basic public services, when we have to use recovery to rebuild the welfare state, which means betting on people. Health care is the main concern of citizenship. I know that here our vision and itss do not coincide, both on balance and on what it is necessary to do. We have a magnificent health system, but it has worsened since you've been president. We continue to advocate a public health system, universal access, single insurance, basically public funding, with quality assistance. And you defended — or did — rather than defend — difficulties in access, an aid deterioration, and pushed privatization. There was a dramatic cut in service level: 1,000 hospital beds less, more than 1,000 professionals. And as a result, there are worse benefits. You forgot this problem in your speech. In the waiting period, we have the worst statistics in the autonomous Spanish communities, except for Ceuta and Melilla. In consultations with specialists, there are 37% of the patients who wait for more than three months and 15%, over six. In hospital care, we're worse than the Spanish average, dissatisfied with more than 50% of the sick. In four years we have to recover the number of lost health professionals to boost the quality of care. We must overcome the difficulties of access, once again ensuring universal access to public health, relieving the burden on pensioners of lower resources. We have to push a strategy for the recovery of privatization. We will continue to oppose your attempts to continue on that path. In education too, the cuts involved fewer teachers, who give more hours of class to more students, and quality resents. Where demography pushes a little around cities there's a growing demand and massification. We're not achieving goals. The PISA indicators tell us we're the best of the worst. That's not enough. For example, in multilingual centers, did you improve foreign language learning, or did you just change the label, change your surname to the center, teach in English gymnasium or music? I know it's not just about resources. We have to change organizational processes. But without increasing staff paintings, these changes are highly unlikely. We proposed to go back in four years to the 2008 numbers. We don't know what your proposal is like. We want to universalize and homogenize the period of pre-schooling, promote the freeness of textbooks, strengthen integrated centres and dual FPs, launch measures to reduce early school dropout, facilitate access of all students from families with lower resources to subsidized dining rooms. All of this needs resources and needs professionals in education. And the underlying problems are the law of Wert. Let's go to the emergency room. No conditions for applying the baccalaureate revalide. The level of people's concern is very high. How do we prepare a decisive test, if we don't know what it's going to consist of? They take the previous model back, they derogate LOMCE and we work on an education pact, all over Spain, which can then move to Galicia. [[Applause]] In transport, the High Court ruling is both a challenge and a great opportunity. Grants need to be re-ordered within necessary deadlines. We need to move quickly in the design of an efficient line map, articulating a well-defined administrative strategy. In the metropolitan areas, starting transport consortia. In mid-distance mobility, incorporating the new tractor centers. And in rural mobility, ensuring population access to basic services. Do you intend to move this challenge to Parliament? And I don't want to leave this scope without making a reference to AVE. In these years, with the absolute majority of his party in Galicia and Madrid, delays over forecasts are evident. The degree of execution of the initial budgets was below 40%, and now you accept an incomplete stroke, with temporary traces. The works will not be finished before 2022, Mr. Feijóo. And he dares to return with the AVE from Lugo to Ourense. What turning point did you leave your 2009 proposal? You have the opportunity to regain coherence, to be once again the systematic whipping of governments that delay the AVE and reduce investments, even if it is a government of your party. That's what it means to be a Galician militant and not a militant of the People's Party. [[Applause]] In the environment, he forgot about the fires in November, but he's going to have to put them out in the summer. And let's talk about the water. We are condemned for failure to comply with the Water Framework Directive on treatment and purification, and the Galicia Sanitation Plan is being defeated. It is time to prioritize absolutely the integral sanitation of the rivers, reflecting on the management models, to have the collaboration of all the administrations and all the agents involved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u9	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u10	We have proposed an organism for laughter, but there may be other models, as long as the quality of the environment and its sustainable exploitation is guaranteed. You've also forgotten the local scope. Synthetically, we need to fully develop the local pact; to promote the constitution and development of metropolitan areas; to repeal the Rationalization Act; and to promote a new financing system. What was it about the municipal mergers? In 2011 I collaborated on the law of the public media. Five years later, I note that it was developed with parsimony and bias. He elects the director of the corporation by the qualified majority of Parliament; he pushes the professional Statute; and he creates the Information Council. They're missing from developing the program contracts, which would allow them to build a modern television. We need to rehabilitate the second channel, risk more, try to incorporate new audiences. The living, innovative, emerging country has to be present in the Company: access and representation of pluralism must be guaranteed. Among the contents of the public service, it is to guarantee the future of the language itself. I told him — a few years ago — that ours should be the generation of the linguistic agreement and the future of Greek: making possible the universal knowledge of Greek and Spanish in Galicia; establishing a policy of protection and impulse of the language itself; and ensuring the maximum of individual freedom. Right, you've been down in recent times the degree of political confrontation over the question of language, despite some relapse in the electoral period; but without any contribution or purpose of amendment, without an ambitious policy of support for language and culture. You, candidate, are surely in your last term. Think of the legacy he will leave for future generations. Do what you can to restore the agreement. We all design a path to the future, from a saying that we can ask the advisory institutions we have in Galicia. Gender equality doesn't worry too much. You went back to the normative intruder in favour of equality that the Government of Emilio Pérez Touriño had raised. The labour balance is devastating: for the first time the female active population in Galicia has fallen in the last thirty years. This is being your legacy. In gender-based violence, we assumed special attention, as already in 2009 he mentioned this phenomenon. Well, in 2015 — official data — there were almost 4,000 telephone calls, 60 accredited cases and 8 deaths, which is the worst relative indicator of autonomous communities. It corrects this situation, acting in different fields: in education, in the field of prevention, in the judicial field. It provides more means for the judicial and administrative apparatus to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u11	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u12	Two minutes, Mr. President. There can be no pride of Galician or Galeguist inspiration without confidence in self-government, and you don't trust him. In the last eight years there have been no transfers of powers; it can happen to the history of Galicia as the only president of the Union who has not expanded self-government. The process is running out, we know it, but we're behind the level of competence in Euskadi and Catalonia. There is unanimity in this House for more transfers: make them possible! because Galicia's interests demand that voice be raised from time to time. Today we have a minority central government; it is in a political situation where it can be more sensitive to certain demands. Let's just take advantage of this situation. Transferring AP-9 is a good example. For years he has claimed title, then he has forgotten; he has returned to the original position on several occasions. We have a proposal for an organic law suspended at the Congress Bureau. He unlocked it using its influences, and it will make it possible for that transfer to arrive at Galicia. It was said that I do not ask you to renew the Statute, not because you consider it unnecessary. It's that we're in a set too dominated by defense in the face of the advances of Catalan independence so that it can prosper the reform we need. I'd just say, let's be ready. If there is a possibility of moving forward in our self-government because if we open the reform of the territorial issue in Spain, we have a proposal. I confess the principles that I like: equality of treatment for all, with regard to diversity. In Galicia, not one centimeter behind its current position of historical nationality!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u13	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u14	One minute, Mr. President. We are not in favour of breaking up, but neither of immobilising. The autonomic model has a majority support in our country. It's good that it is. But without changing the model, we can significantly improve it among all; this is the task we should have. Only one federal model, equal in plurality, will be able to weigh in Spain. I'm done. We too are proud to be Germans and of commitment to the country, but we prefer a dynamic country democratically; with opportunities for Thursdays; without poverty, with fewer inequalities; with a solid productive base; with a strong primary sector; with a competitive sector, with quality employment; with strengthened public services; where education is an instrument of equal opportunity and health a guarantee of rapid care; with institutional quality and without corruption; integrated territorially; with weight in Spain and Europe; with social dialogue and with political dialogue in Parliament. We'd be more proud to be able to live in such a country. That's why you won't have our investment support, after your balance in the last eight years. We'll be where citizenship has been. We will be opposed, rigorous and constructive, which will differ from you in many respects, but which will also dare to coincide with you when necessary. In the next four years, we will have the opportunity to profile the arguments to better approach social demands; to understand the fears, desires and aspirations of citizens; to build us as an alternative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u15	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Popular Parliamentary Group in Marea, Mr Villares Naveira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u16	Popular in Marea will be a lot, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. candidate. Galician citizenship. He wrote Porter Garea when he founded the Brotherhood of Speech in Compostela in 1916: "The consciousness of our sin. The first is to be just: don't throw others away the guilt of our sins. They have enough of their own." Could not connect with command "%s": %s Then, in this House, the popular candidate said that the sins that could be committed in these walls would be exonerated in the polls. Mr. Feijó, don't blame people, there are sins like unemployment, inequality, emigration, and above all corruption, which only commits who governs. Since the electoral process does not absolve from sin, the tide will vote not for its investment. And as the candidate mentioned in the speech to the Brotherhood of Speech, it will be a fair tribute to the centenary of his birth his evocation, since they constitute for us the first Galician tide, formed in our cities and villages, shows a civil society that unites around the language, but also of Galician social and political problems, which will result as a political project in the Galician Party. Lois Tobío, a diplomat and translator living, a co-worker of Porter, shared with him the same concerns we are carrying here today, about how — as there is a century — the economic and social crisis that we live in in Galicia, in its state and European context, triggered a political and democratic crisis. Indeed, the response given from the European institutions and the Troica to a crisis of financial capitalism, unable to meet its own voracity, was to try to satisfy itself at the expense of the social rights of citizenship, imposing cuts of public spending and investment in welfare policies that articulated what was constitutionally called the social state. In this way, in the face of a systemic crisis not caused by the majority of society, these were the great harm and their payers, carrying out the government rescue of the banks and the payment of the debts generated by speculation of all kinds with the money destined for education, health and social benefit. There was thus a policy of public resources intended to look after people in favor of the pocket of a minority, selfish and greedy, which has become richer during these years at the cost of amassing for them what should be most shared among all. The result: citizenry more impoverished and with less rights, individual and collective. But this situation, for certain ideological and political options, doesn't want to be a conjunctive, but a structural one. I mean, they're in line with a new economic and social model. A model in which we can enter into the stage of economic growth — which for the candidate has already been to leave behind the crisis — but leaving the social model and the welfare policies permanently destroyed. That is to say, by consolidating a society without social rights; a quality education only within the reach of those who can pay; a job without work rights; a wage of misery that does not derive from poverty; a unemployment without benefits to survive with dignity; a privatized, paid and slow health; an old age without retirement after a lifetime of work; and with institutions to which the words of solidarity, dignity or justice are completely alien to them. The present crisis was an excuse for a model change, for emptying of content a social change where income and wealth were redistributed to achieve equal opportunities in life, and where public authorities arbitrated that distribution, intervening in the economy and promoting values such as coexistence and culture. The acceptance of the conditions of the Troika forced those who wanted to listen to them, to certain parties, to renounce their own principles in favour of others marked by non-democratically selected institutions, which require the surrender of rights to parliaments that if they have democratic legitimacy, as Luciani recalls. When some consent to these policies imposed by anti-Soberian power and others abstain, opening the door again when there was a chance to close it, they do so not to emerge from a crisis, but to emerge from a model, to stabilize and normalize inequality. They leave the social state and build the neoliberal state. They leave their rights and enter social Darwinism. They get out of people and they get into numbers. They leave two citizens and enter consumers. Get out of society and get into the market. They finally leave citizenship and enter slavery. But not everything would be easy for those who seek to silently overthrow the model of well-being by another insolidary and ruinous. So the social space was born to break with this scam, as the Brotherhood broke with the political inertia of the time a hundred years ago. There is a civil society that is not concerned about the model change that wants those who support the Troika's recipes. First we felt the outrage that Stéphane Hessel called us for making us pay for the common people a crisis that caused others, at the cost of reducing social spending and suppressing rights. But now that we see what is intended, and what is intended is a model change, we organize ourselves and commit ourselves — as the French thinker claimed — to defend the common good. This situation irreversibly establishes a dividing mark between those who support this model and those who believe in solidarity, social justice, equality and social and cultural cohesion. In short, those we believe that public authorities should serve people's interests. There is a political crisis of representation, indeed, because civil society is wondering what interests are of those who rule us. The candidate then forgot to make a diagnosis of the current situation in our country. It may not have been forgotten, perhaps it was the shame of a government balance which, after eight years of parliamentary stability, leaves a growing social instability. A look at Galicia leaves a sad balance of an economically impoverished, job-consuming country, socially more unequal, culturally more disgruntled and demographically diminished; ultimately, a country more unfair to its people. The candidate forgot to talk about real Galicia, but don't worry, we already do. In economic matters, the candidate uses the argument that GDP will grow to say simply that the crisis remains behind. The reality is different, and it shows the paradox of a bad manager: the economy comes out of recession but the Galician society is still in crisis. We'll only get out of it when we get back to the living and working conditions we had before you get here. Galicia today is a country that is more unfair, more unequal, more poor, less social protection, with less labour rights, with worse public services, with less unemployment, less wages and greater work insecurity than in 2008. There's 207,000 people still out of work. Four out of 10 employees earn less than 1,000 euros a month. Half of the hired population is precarious. One in four Galicians are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. There are 72,000 homes where all their members are unemployed. We have the second lowest pensions in the state. GDP is already at 2007 levels, however, there are fewer than 110,000 employees. The same wealth but much less employment, and in addition, of worse quality. Workers earn less, while business benefits grow more. Nor does it take advantage of this growth to increase public spending, either through economic activity or through tax progress. His tax system generates an unfair distribution of wealth, because the tax reduction for all benefits, above all, those who have the most. We are poorest, per capita GDP is still falling; in 2009 it was 88% of the average in Spain and today it is 87%. Less activity and therefore less employment; and more unemployment: today, 98,000 are less busy than in 2009. The most worrying thing is the analysis of the difference with the Spanish average, because Galicia is the community with the worst evolution of employment across the state: the destruction of employment multiplies by almost three times to the state average. In this context, the candidate's star measure on employment is to create 80,000 jobs by 2020. Those are less than the ones that have been destroyed since you came here, and still assuming you get it, three legislates to go back to 2009? These days the workers of Extel, Viriato or Banco Pastor are protesting the loss of their jobs. You have the opportunity to start with the job by meeting your demands. Do it! Wage inequality has increased by 40% because of wage cuts, increased precariousness and unintended part-time work. Gender inequality is also evident in employment. The female employment rate is 5% lower than the male, and the Greek women receive 22% less pay for performing men's equivalent jobs. In these conditions, a Greek woman must work 55 days a year longer than a man to earn the same as him. [[Applause]] We're poorer and we're more indebted. Where does the candidate get a reduction in debt as the announcement? It's true, we're more indebted than before, much more. In other words, economic problems have worsened and, in parallel, public debt has increased. What's that management? Fighting debt has to be used to meet needs and solve problems. You increased your debt by 250% and didn't solve anything. In addition, you have applied a huge cut to public accounts, reaching a 33% fall in real terms of spending for public services and investment. So today we have one third less resources for health, one third less resources for education, one third less resources for employment policies, one third less resources for housing. With these babies, how do you want us to entrust our resources to you? In terms of self-government, paralysing the transfer of competences to our country reveals a bad manager who, in addition, does not believe in autonomy. The candidate agrees with saying that the community did not intervene, as if that were an achievement!, compared to the worst of the class, when his function was another: to achieve a few competitive odds that allowed Galician citizenship to live better. We haven't had much better linguistics either. Your disappointing policies, which have been emblematic as a symbol of the ban on the teaching of mathematics in Greek, have been very effective, and so you have the dubious honour of being President of the Board, which has achieved the greatest reduction in the number of speakers in Galicia's own language throughout the history of our country, achieving for the first time in history that the Greek is only dominant in the age of 50. [[Applause]] What did we do to him and to him to treat us like this? Already the Brotherhood of Speech — those of which you have spoken — articulate civil society to defend the language against politicians like you, who intended to reduce it to a folklore expression, as Manuel Antonio had denounced in his famous More Allah manifesto. How are we going to demonstrate to him and how are we going to entrust the candidate to our language? The Greek health suffered in the Feijóo era with special dramatism, denying the right to health to broad layers of the population, reaching the extreme of being, today, two high positions of the health administration charged with administrative prevarication, for denying medication to several patients with hepatitis C, not by medical criteria, but by bureaucratic criteria, for the convenience of matching the accounts of the Council. One of them, Félix Rubial, is ahead of Vigo Hospital Management. It's the terrible consequences of treating public health service as a business and not as a fundamental right. The candidate was expressed in religious terms the other day with the atonement of his sins, and so we call him: for us public health is sacred; it's not a business, it's a public service that guarantees essential rights such as life and health, so it must be managed entirely from the public sector. Well, to meet this basic right, the candidate reduced his budget by 25%. Do you think you're going to restore the 1,800 health professionals who have destroyed, or do you think there can be decent health without them to do the same work as before? Were they left before or are they missing now? As for the media, the especially outrageous health is the case of the Vigo area. As Póvisa continues to increase the business and the transfers continue to come together, there are full wings of the Mexoneiro that accumulate more than a year of closure. With these facts, does the candidate want us to entrust him with our health? The right to education is another one of those forgotten in the candidate's speech, perhaps because it's the key to the formation of a free, critical and cult citizenship, and that's why it also bothers; and also because the results would be cuts, dismantling of service and increasing privatization of teaching. Do you think 2,300 teachers less and 59 public schools deleted, while 245 classes were set up in concerted education? Will we add to this a new inability to interact with the university community and ministerial follow-up in the application of LOMCE and its revals? There's nothing in the Greek university system that makes a minimum turnout in the policies developed these years, in which it has operated since the central government, and with the collaboration of the Union, a genuine counter-reform university which, together with the economic crisis, has led universities to a situation of unprecedented financial precariousness and loss of autonomy of management. The result of the situation for innovation is obvious: the German R & D accounts for 0.90% of GDP, far from the state average, of 1.30%, and let's not say that the European R & D is 2.10%. We are the sixth community with the lowest percentage of R & D investment in the state. With these figures, how does the candidate want us to give him the education of our girls and boys? With his talk about the Capulets, the other day he forgot to mention that the budget for culture was reduced by 55%, the book's edition in German by 43%, and the basic culture asphyxiation in theatre, music, as well as in audiovisual production. That's a shakespearian tragedy. Desperate and hopeless landscape, of which they are saved, that is yes, the Gaiás and the Fundación Camilo José Cela — under suspicion of misappropriation of funds — made these that bring their cultural policy closer to the genre of hope. [[Applause]] The power candidate also spoke. How can you promise a horizon of renewable energies when your mandates were those of paralysis, when your wind competition did not install a single megawatt or when you did not raise your voice against the energy counter-reform of former Minister Soria, who seriously damaged the development of renewables? And in rural areas, what has been the evolution of rural since he ruled? Ageing, abandonment and loss of services. The agricultural and forestry sector has lost 1 out of every 3 jobs since you ruled. The INE data of December 2013 told us that only 4.68 % of agricultural holding holders are under 40 years old, and nearly 60%, 60 years old or older. Galician citizenship, its social majority, has lost all these years quality of life, rights, job and personal expectations. We're going down as a human community. This is the real Galician that the candidate didn't speak up. [[Applause]] This economic and social situation in Galicia, where we are placed by popular policies, solving an important part of civil society, which, outraged, does not resist letting them steal education, health or pensions. The articulation of a citizen's response—as we know well as Greeks, since in 2002 we had to collect with our hands a chapter of what the "in-competent" authorities were not dealing with—is here soon. First came in the form of peaceful occupation of the squares, a 15-M that symbolized civil anxiety for recovering some spaces and a public life that was being stolen from them. But this spontaneous reaction would have continued, sending a clear message to the political forces to join, giving rise to political tools like AGE. But it was not enough, and in parallel the citizen movement decided to take one more step and organize itself directly in cities and villages, establishing new brotherhoods, the brotherhoods of the twenty-first century, the City Tides, who presented candidatures of dignity to retrieve the councils for the people of the common and to take them away from those who, with sound and continuous cases of corruption, represented the true anti-politics in the Galician society, still harmonizing our hearing names as Count Roa or operations like Pokémon, sad episodes that our capital did not deserve. [[Applause]] That's how over seventy city tide applications from throughout Galicia, which today account for over one hundred, have again brought dignity to the city council's politics, thinking in the interest of the common good and citizenship. Over the course of the middle year, we show in the cities of change like Coruña, Compostela or Ferrol, but also in villages like Salceda or Manzaneda, which we do not promise the impossible. We've put a municipal social income in place; we've recovered for the public services such as water, libraries or old-age residences, and we're more efficient than private management; we've shown that ideas are the basis of a new reality. But the compromise of civil society organized in citizen tide was not over there. The voice of people who don't want that social model, that work model and that political model that you propose should be brought to Parliament. And that's why we're here. [[Applause]] In this project it takes a lot more people, because it's still walking. It's normal they're worried. In the context of a emerging but recently organized Catalan civil society around the tide, the elections of September 25 took place, which left an election result in which 47.5% opted for by the People's Party and the other 52.5% did not; a differential, of course, that was not sufficient to challenge the unique status of the candidate's country, and even more, if we take into account that abstention was greater than the votes obtained even by the majority parliamentary force. This, of course, is not denying the election result, but clarifying it. You have electoral legitimacy to govern, of course!, but the country is more plural than the intended match between your person and Galicia, as you did here in the forefront, as if it were the same King Sun. There is another country, another country that does not feel represented in that notion of totality that the candidate wants, or in relation to its regionalist conception of Galicia or its neoliberal and insolidary model of society. In this space of non-conformity, Galician citizenship places En Marea as the first parliamentary political force, with 20% of the suffrage, in a position of electoral alternative and, above all, in what matters most, to a social alternative. Your election majority isn't a blank check or a black card either. He then gave the candidate the idea that that was the citizen's mandate, when he said that elections would make up for the sins committed on these walls. No, no, no, no. You will have most, but the trace of your sin follows there: unemployment; social exclusion; rural desertification; demographic decline; gender inequality; the loss of speakers; self-government and, of course, corruption. In front of its parliamentary majority, full of sins, we will from the very first moment be the social alternative from which to build a majority electoral for the future, because as civil society we continue to accumulate forces, generating new social dynamics of participation, and because we know that, after Rajoy's investment and the endorsement obtained by action or by abstention from the unfair social and economic model that they intend to impose the PP and Troica, there are more people who observe us as the only hope to achieve a more just country, to the service of the common good and not of the financial oligarchies. These elections therefore force En Marea to: an opposition to its policies, harmful to Galicia; a control over the action of the Government; and, above all, to the parliamentary formulation of the social alternative that this country wants to govern by 2020. [[Applause]] What does it mean — someone might wonder — that Marea opposes the candidate and has already made an alternative from the beginning? Well, the reason is quite clear. Modern democracies, since World War II, are more than rules of majority and minorities, are democracies of principle, are democracies of values and are democracies of rights. Society trusts a political force a power to do something. The legitimacy of power lies in that it is used for the common good, not against, as Häberle remembers with fundamental rights. They actually have the power to guarantee freedoms and to secure rights. If they use it to change the model by spying on us education, health, social benefits, housing; they allow and perpetuate gender inequality and opportunities; if they deny us language and social well-being; if they erode our freedom of expression, their political majority will be illegitimate from a statutory, constitutional and international point of view. You can choose how these tasks are done. What they can't do is choose not to comply with them; that's an illegitimate use of power. And we will be here and on the street, from the first day, to denounce this failure and to formulate an alternative that is oriented towards reaching, for the common people, dignified living conditions. [[Applause]] In Marea it will represent in this Parliament, and in society as a whole, a national project for Galicia based on participatory democracy and social justice. We are aware that we represent only a part of that nation that is formed by the entire citizenship of Galicia. But our project wants to be inclusive and get the complicity of the majority of society, united by a sense of belonging to a collective project of solidarity that looks at the common good. Our commitment to the right to decide is not a national commitment, it is a democratic commitment. That's why we jump because the State recognises its multinational character and respects the right of every people to think about how it organizes itself politically, as a natural evolution of the recognition that was already made in 1978 of the existence of historical nationalities like ours, which, as you know, we owe to the adoption of the 36th Autonomy Statute, driven by the Galician Party and a Castile, also called on the other day by the candidate, which has served to the end the national character of Galicia. We are a political culture that understands democracy in a participatory way, in Parliament, but also in the street. We believe in a democracy with freedoms and rights. We demand that democratic institutions regain control over economic decisions and that the IMF, the World Bank or the European Central Bank — which we do not choose — do not mark economic policy or social policy: we want to decide! We believe in a deliberative democracy, where our institutions ensure and promote the formation of a free public opinion. [[Applause]] With regard to these principles, Marea here formulates the political lines on which it will base its parliamentary action and social transformation, on which it will seek the consultation of other groups of the House. Starting with self-government, it is necessary to develop the Autonomy Statute in its entirety and resume the process of paralysed transfers during previous mandates. So, in addition to pressing to definitely put AP-9 in the service of people—that people who are polished daily for their use—they will be priorities for us in transit and road safety, maritime security, labour inspection or nearby trains, all geared to defending our strategic sectors and to the vertebration of our territory. In the face of yesterday's or earlier developments in funding, we believe that self-financing must be based on the principles of financial autonomy, responsibility, territorial solidarity and fiscal sovereignty. The control of resources generated in the endogenously is key to promoting a model of development in the medium and long term. Such revolutionary principles have been defended more than eighty years ago by another son of historical Galeguism, Alexandre Boveda, defends that the economist paid with martyrdom. Today, by the way, his granddaughter defends with the same dignity his grandmother's ideal from En Marea's ranks. Local funding, of which there is a unanimous position in this House, requires the execution of this agreement to end also the discrimination to which the Greeks are subjected. The vertebration of the territory is key to economic dynamisation and service delivery. It is incomprehensible for the candidate to announce the amendment of the Land Management Act to adapt it to the Land Law. Territorial sorting is done in reverse: first, the set is planned and guidelines are established; then they are developed at the territorial level; and finally, at the urban level, this is the last step of planning, not the first one. As long as they don't understand the country as a whole, they'll continue to make laws that will only serve to foster speculation and disorderly growth, and they won't be able to meet the needs of the population, urban and rural. In this respect, we are also strongly committed to the comarca­calization of essential infrastructures and services, so that no one, regardless of where he lives, will be without basic attention. The Greek, as an element of social and cultural cohesion, must be promoted and not pursued by the public authorities. It takes the immediate derogation from the so-called "Plurilingualism" decree, and the prejudices that still exist towards our language inspired by the Administration must be eliminated. You can't expel the Greek from school and then ask the families to speak about it. [[Applause]] The fight against corruption must be translated into effective measures of transparency and democratic regeneration. We want a Welsh lobby law, so that we all know who tries to pressure the Executive on the development of laws and public policies, which would then very well explain that they make ex-ministers and former councillors sitting on the board of directors of known companies operating in Galicia — with high contaminant incidence, by the way. Equally, in the field of justice, the provision of more material and human resources to facilitate the investigation of corruption-related crimes. And in terms of transparency, I wouldn't be much more aware of the truth about the merger and the polishing of savings boxes, because, like in the case of the English accident, we have the right to it, we have the right to the truth. [[Applause]] The inclusion of cross-cutting equality is essential for changing today's society. It is necessary to include the feminist perspective in all policies. In key to fighting against machismo, it is necessary to provide sufficient budgets for the full development and effective functioning of the comprehensive law against gender violence, and further the development of an emergency plan to end feminicides. On the basis of equal opportunities, the Government must firmly implement the Law on shared ownership of agricultural holdings; carry out active women's employment policies and end the shift in care tasks towards the private and family sectors, which are mainly women's concerns. Equality also involves the extension of civil rights to the entire population, so we urge the future government to work in an integral gender identity law in the manner agreed with Galician LGTBI associations. The exercise of citizen dignity begins with minimal vital conditions, so we also demand, as an immediate cross-sectional action, the adoption of a decree of social guarantees to ensure reallocation in case of defiance, whatever its cause — banking or lease — that alleviates cases of severe material poverty and avoids energy poverty. Personal well-being goes through a social health bet that hasn't been present in the candidate's speech either. In this regard, it is necessary to develop the Plan of the "Strategy of Social Inclusion of Galicia 2014-2020" and to facilitate economically the municipalities to design and implement more humane and standardized social assistance programmes and services. Education is also a fundamental right that must be guaranteed in a public and quality system of universal access. It is necessary to paralyze the application of LOMCE and curb its revalides; to establish the freeness of textbooks and a model of school lunches that enables the reconciliation of working and family life and, in rural areas, to avoid unnecessary displacements to children, as Elvira Bao had already claimed, a teacher who became secretary of the Coruña Brotherhood of Speech there in 1918. There must be an insured public education offer, not supplied by the concerted; and, on behalf of equality, the subsidy must be abolished to centres which are sex-segregated. [[Applause]] Culture is also essential in the development of an advanced society, so it is necessary to recover the percentage of the budget for this target at 2008 levels — which was 1.23% — by redistributing resources based on objective criteria that do not affect social and cultural rights and which can be assessed externally. Health requires urgent action to recover its basic universal service character. It requires the immediate paralysis of the process of privatization of still public services and the establishment of an orderly rescue plan for those on concession, starting at Vigo Hospital. The immediate resolution of contracts in which companies are failing to comply with their contractual obligations should also be agreed, so that we return the full healthcare scheme to the public sector. Health can never be used again as a business where companies work with our disease. [[Applause]] The elimination of the pharmaceutical compensation for pensioners and the health exclusion of any social group must be postulated. Collaboration with private health cannot lead to the dismantling of the public system, as is now the case, refusing to build centers like the one in the past or providing services like hemodynamics 24 hours in the HULA. The Council should draw up an urgent plan for reducing waiting lists and making an optimal job of facilities — including bed opening — as well as an improvement in primary care, which deals specifically with care in rural areas. There is a deterioration in performance in sensitive services that must be attended by a plan of mental health, a plan to prevent suicide and the integration of prevention and care of addictions in Sergas, a system that must also ensure the exercise of abortion in their facilities and with all guarantees. Attention to the rural environment requires effective actions by the Government of Greece. We need a bet by a dairy processing industry involved by the Administration and with the involvement of livestock and livestock; the provision of new land that increases the agricultural surface of farms, through the revitalization of the Land Bank, and a rational forest plan not based on the monoculture of eucalyptus. An industrial policy with a future, which will require — or should require — to coordinate the provision of soil by means of a plot bank and an investment plan. The energy policy should leap through the recovery of the leading position that both industrial and electrical production had the wind sector before the candidate ruined it, paralyzing an area that today could be world leaders and which was doomed to collapse and relocation. The new parks should bring together real commitments of non-replaceable industrial investment in the region where they are installed, to create jobs and wealth and to set up population in rural areas. And a point to finish this chapter of our alternative proposal. In Marea, we believe that demographic decline and rural desertification are simply symptoms of the abandonment of a country by governments who don't believe in it. They create decent working conditions for people not to have to emigrate; they restore universal rights such as education, health and social assistance throughout the territory; they stimulate the productive economy in all regions; they spread the country thinking about people, and they will soon see the smiles of girls and children in cities and villages, without the need for ridiculous electoral measures as their successor of the "Finlandese boxes."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u17	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u18	I'm done. It only lingers to me, Mr. President, to explain how you will carry out your programme in Marea in a context of most popular. It's easy in Parliament and on the street. For us democracy is all that happens in society, not only in Parliament. The candidate rejected demonstrations of conflict and discontent because he preferred a silent and submissive country. It is in temptation, denounced by Bobbio, to suppress social needs rather than satisfy them. That's why they approve laws bites and manipulates public media, to create an appearance of social consensus that doesn't exist, because they know that when discontent spreads and the truth is known, their power shakes. Parliament is not the only manifestation of democracy, and you know it. Perhaps it's still very recent as you were defeated by a social majority, without the need of most parliamentarians, in the citizen vote on the Aquaculture Law. Or how they ground their plans with the transnationals of the contaminant mega-mining industry. Or, in the sphere of state, as his fellow Gallardón was also defeated and resigned in his attempt to law against abortion. Examples are not missing, and yes, they have reason to be concerned, because In Marea will carry out its program also on the street, explaining it actively and articulating that social majority that will transform this country from below, spreading tides like brotherhoods across every corner of Galicia. Democracy is more than voting every four years, it's working hard to change the world and all of us have better opportunities to live. That's why we'll be in the neighborhoods of our cities, in the industrial polygons, in the fields, in the sea, in the streets, in the squares, in the villages and in the villages, because there's our people. People who suffer, who work, who laugh, who love, who fight and dream, of course they do! Common people waiting for politics an encouragement, an effort, support. He expects, when there are abuses of the powerful, a government worthy of representing them to stand by and defend them. People who only wait for their government to provide them with decent living conditions. You — and finished, Your Honor, Mr. President — carry with your unpardoned sins, that we will sew in secret, as Michael Chao did in the factory of Tabacos da Coruña, the hopes and illusions of the people of the Brotherhood, and print in the consciences, as Mary Miramontes did in Compostela, the values of the citizen dignity and the defense of the common good. We want to build a fair country, where people have the easiest to be happy. We'll try it in Parliament, and we'll build it, of course, outside, because that's where our people live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u19	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u20	Mr President, Mr candidate for investment, ladies and gentlemen, today we are developing one of the most relevant political acts of our democratic system: the investment debate. A debate which, because it is so important, is explicitly regulated in the Autonomy Statute in Article 15 which, by the way, goes after 11. The 11th is what establishes that there is an election campaign and an election. The 15th is that after the elections we discuss the investment of the President of the Board, that we have elected a member of the House to be the President and that the President comes to the House to introduce himself, to present his government programme, and that, once he is invested, he will respond politically to this House. We believe that this act is the essence of parliamentary democracy, and we are very happy that it is being celebrated. There was even one who predicted that this debate would never be held again, when we had the opportunity to have it exactly four years ago. Because here we are going to invest, with the support of the democratically elected majority, who will exercise power with all legitimacy; a power, obviously restricted by time as well as by the powers exercised as well as by the control we do from this House. And so today is a day in which we are not only developing, but also celebrating, a great democratic occasion and the summit of the principle of representation of parliamentary democracy, of the constitutional system of 1978, of the 1980 Statute of autonomy, and therefore of the best system that has ensured well-being for the Greeks and for all Spaniards. [[Applause]] And, therefore, because of the relevance of this act, I am very honored to have presented and to defend Alberto Núñez Feijó as a candidate for the presidency of the Union, to be the spokesperson of that social majority who has freely and democratically elected a parliamentary majority here represented and today to support his investment, the third president of the Union. And so, my words can only be thank you, thank you very much to the Greek people for their renewed confidence in extraordinary circumstances in our political formation, their renewed confidence in our electoral program and their renewed confidence in our candidate, Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Galicia, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Well, in this investment debate, I think we have to highlight two questions: first, the content of the programme that the candidate presented and, more importantly, the political attitude with which the candidate came to this House. I believe that the program, as it made a magnificent summary of what was the electoral proposal with which we competed for the elections, and once we knew the results of the elections, we already know that it is not the People's Party program, but it is the program that practically prefers one of the two voters in the last autonomous elections. I don't think it's necessary to sum it up in excess, but rather to highlight that the candidate has succeeded in establishing three big axes and three large blocks of political action. First of all, economics. In economic terms, the objective is clear. It's true that Galicia is better today. Unemployment decreases in 2012 we had unemployment in EPA at 21.6% today is 16.4%. The unemployment rate in 2012 was 8%, and today it is 10% at an annual rate. Memberships rise, before 4% were reduced, in 2012, today they increase by 2.4%. GDP is rising: in 2012 it fell by 3.2%, it is now growing by 3% or more than 3%, as most economic institutes forecast. Exports fell by 2.8% in 2012, today rise by 5.4%. The consumption was 4.3%, today it is exactly 4.3%. The productivity of Galicia, of work, grew by 1.1% last year; that is, almost twice as much as that of the state as a whole. And all economic indicators are positive, which also leads to an improvement in the collection. The gross income available to households — by the way, it was said that Galicia had so much deterioration — in 2008 was 9.5% of the Spanish average, today is 91.6%. Which means that, in terms of the gross income available to households per capita, we're converging with Spain and that's, in the end, what leads to more well-being for families. And since all this is true, it is also, as the candidate has acknowledged, that while about 200,000 Greeks and Greeks suffer from the personal drama of looking for a job and not finding it, and others from stabilising their job situation in order to stabilize their vital project as well, it is clear that the fundamental objective of economic policy must be to promote the creation of stable and quality jobs. That's the priority the candidate pointed out. There is clearly a road map posed by the contributions of experts, of society and of this Parliament itself, which is the Strategic Plan of Galicia. The lines of work and the objectives, which are summed up in creating between 80 and 100,000 new jobs in this legislation, are clear, and they have listed the candidate in his speech: promoting entrepreneurship and self-employment; advancing in the internalization of our companies, which in turn leads to increasing their size and fostering cooperation between them; advancing in the Smart Specialization Strategy, which is having key results for the future of our economy, such as automation, aeronautics, naval, and opening new by innovators, such as in biotechnology; encouraging talent uptake; improving training, particularly vocational training in new areas of the future; contributing to the momentum of our strategic sectors, which, in addition to the above mentioned, include rural resources, with the promotion of quality and transformation of rural products and the sea as the main objective; improving the training, particularly in the new years of employment; and contributing to the impetus of our strategic sectors, which, in addition to the already mentioned, will be strengthened through a new law, will be achieved through a new strategy, and will be achieved through an open economy. They announced 250 million euros more margin, more spending capacity, in the next fiscal year, in view of the idea that commitment to the deficit was fanaticism and that what we wanted was to reduce public spending to nothing. The candidate also made clear social objectives, which are summarized — and I quote literally — in which "Galice is the autonomous community with the greatest social commitment", and this statement will maintain all legislation with facts. I mean, he's got the goal of working to restore fairness, which here has deteriorated; less in Galicia than in Spain, it's true, but it's urgent to recover. It is urgent that Rosa, Lola and the examples that have been put — in this case, the nationalist group’s spokesman — continue to have a diagnosis in a free public health — Spain and Galicia, together with the United Kingdom and Denmark, are the only countries in Europe where consultation and diagnosis are not charged with public health — so that they can continue to have free treatment in a public hospital, so that they can continue to have access to medicines without having to delay payment, as are all retirees in Galicia, because there is a computer system that works, of course, so that, if they have a need for economic assistance through the dependency, they will soon be one of these 50,000 galleys that benefit from it with less resources than the 14,000 that we had when we arrived, which were the ones who perceived the provision of the dependency, and, of course, because it was also mentioned, if needed, so that they could opt for the aid of the electric ticket, which put in place the Xunta de Galicia. [[Applause]] This social objective involves continuing to collaborate with the councils, continuing to collaborate with non-profit civil society organizations and developing explicit policies that move towards integration into a single social agenda of all social policies that the Union is developing: Risga, dependency, complementing non-contributory pensions, fighting child poverty, the electric ticket, the Plan of Housing and Defiance and the demographic impulse. We hope that they will continue to collaborate with some municipalities, because much if they fill their mouths with which to help people and, when there is an empty plan of dwellings in the Union, they refuse to collaborate with Together to solve the problem of their fellow citizens. Of course, improving public health care. The presidential candidate gave clear tangible commitments, both in infrastructures and in patient care programs. And, of course, by improving public education, which is the basis of equal opportunities; an equal opportunity that also improves with the communication infrastructures, both traditional and digital, that the candidate listed in his speech. Finally, we support the candidate because he proposes to move forward in a solidarity Galicia, with equal opportunities for all, regardless of place of residence, age, social status or any other personal circumstances, such as gender. The candidate has also set clear objectives in the political and institutional field: to strengthen autonomy. And to that end, I proposed strengthening multilevel governance, with a commitment by the Conference of Presidents, advocating for its institutionalization, with the principle of institutional loyalty. Secondly, with a defence of the Constitution, the Statute and their institutions, which guarantee interpersonal and interterritorial solidarity in Spain with Galicia and among the Greeks, and that's what suits Galicia. We didn't think the Transition had failed. From the Transition was born the political system that guarantees Galician self-government and guarantees the progress and well-being of the Greeks. Nor do we think that the 36th Statute, which, being a great statute for that time, is inferior to the 1980s Statute; on the contrary, the 1980s Statute is much more advanced. [[Applause]] In fact, he, as you know, characterized Galicia as a "region." That was the Statute that qualified Galicia as a region and not as a historical nationality, which is what the current Statute of autonomy says. The commitment to self-government is exercised every day. Certainly, when one comes to a debate and says that commitment to self-government depends on the transfer of AP-9, one is aware of the developed statute of autonomy of Galicia: we manage health, we manage education, we manage social policies, we manage justice... there are actually some questions left, we will certainly have occasion to talk about them throughout the legislation, but if the problem of self-government of Galicia is the AP-9 is that Galician self-government is well targeted. [[Applause]] At the institutional level, the candidate for the Presidency also proposed a viable and sustainable system of autonomous funding for the whole of the autonomous communities guaranteeing stability, finance, sustainability and progressiveness of the financing system, which implies that the system has to be geared towards assessing the cost of providing services, which, in the case of Galicia, affect the financing, for example, dispersion, aging, especially over 80 years old, orography and climate. In this case, I would like to point out that we are very happy to see that the Socialist Group — one of the two main groups of the opposition — by the speech of its spokesman, seems to have abandoned the idea of voting in favour of the Cup Law, which in the last part of the past the Socialist Party has supported, because indeed that is the way of work: strengthening the system of autonomous financing, seeking an approximation to the cost of providing services to Galicia. The government program is, therefore, known; it is to give continuity to the project started in 2009, driven in 2012, and I think it is no longer necessary to stop it, the candidate will already do it in the replies he gives to the opposition spokespersons. I think it is more important in this debate to highlight and highlight some political aspects of the candidate's speech to the Presidency of the Union, not those that refer to what one wants to do, but to how one wants to do. Because the People's Party, the program with which the election was presented, the Government that went on the lists and that for all these years has exercised its responsibility in an exercise of exemplary solidarity and also the candidate and until now President of the Board, Alberto Núñez Feijóo, have a broad political backing in this House. They are, of course, counted on the absolute majority of votes, as a result of 47.5% of votes we have obtained in the last autonomous elections. And despite that, despite that majority enough to make decisions without agreeing to anything with the opposition, the candidate has fled the sovereignty, has fled from arrogance and has brought a speech that can be described as realistic, respectful of opposition and open to the pact and consensus; far, in our opinion, from immobilism, continuity and alienation of reality. Today we spoke of "Montepío Syndrome", "Marmot Day", which criticize the different oppositions present in this House. The candidate brought, first, a candidate attached to reality. And it never ceases to be curious that some of the opposition's voices had spoken of having the feeling of being living, after hearing the speech, a déja vu. Psychologists tell us that jaja vu is originated by a quick and brief vision of an object that generates a partial perception of reality, which in turn causes a false feeling of familiarity. It's common in human beings. Practically we all live at some point a ja vu. I had a ja vu today when I heard about the "marmot's day," because it had already been talked about here on the marmot's day, and sometimes we felt that we'd already lived something, that we were here or that we'd been through it. It is a mechanism, at last, that has to do with the speed of accommodating action of the brain, which avoids paying more detailed attention to what is happening in the present, therefore, with the comfort of not having to face something new. I mean, I don't have to rectify the behavior and act as if nothing had happened because we really went on in the past. That's what a deja vu is. [[Applause]] So, I think the opposition, and basically the nationalist and populist, confuse what is continuity with the repetition of the past. If there is any group -- we understand it -- that modestly has to rectify in this House, it is not what has just obtained and strengthened its majority, but what has been defeated; and not only have they been defeated in front of our party, but they have been defeated even in the face of their expectations. What I would not understand is the social majority who voted for the People's Party and who evaluated Alberto Núñez Feijóo's candidacy would be that he was not a continuation, because they just voted to renew these policies, not to change them. And, ladies and gentlemen, when many of the Greeks hear you talk about continuity, they think, "Is this continuing so that the fall in the annual unemployment rate lasts as many months as the 34 that you've been down?" Well, I want to go on. Is it continuing that, as the last EPA says, indefinite jobs increase at the highest rate — +2.1 — than time — +1.7 — and full-day — +2.9 — than part-time — –4,9 —? Well, we want that continuity. Continue to follow more consecutive quarters, after the last ten, with an increase in growth rate and reaching the highest since 2008, 93 months with the highest growth rate for 93 months? Do we want that continuity? Well, we want that continuity. To continue to reach records of internationalization of our products or records on the arrival of tourists? Well, we also want that continuity. To reach more than 500,000 students already enjoying multilingual education or new technology education? Of course we want to continue. Is it going to continue to increase school dining markets and to go out like they have to go out and not a year later? Well, we do want to go on. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks want to continue to launch new hospitals, new health centres, new children's schools, new adult centres, new vocational training squares or new school dining places. They want to continue to see lower taxes for those who have less, lower health waiting lists and lower public deficits and lower administrative expenditure and simplify and eliminate bureaucratic elements. So when you use continuity as a critique to a candidate of what has just been evaluated by a vast majority, I wonder if you think you're going to review their continuity, if you think about getting out of that already vu and coming back to reality, and I wonder who's on marmot day. [[Applause]] To be realistic, to take reality into account is a feature of the candidate's speech that needs to be emphasized, now that in the world we are living what some, like the essayist editor of New Yorker, David Remnick, calls "the times of post-truth politics"; times of post-war politics in which examples abound: a Brexit, because hordes of Turkish immigrants are going to invade the United Kingdom, or a Trump because hordes of Mexicans are going to invade the United States, which are characterized not because they try to create a false view of the world, what they really try to do is to reinforce prejudices and manipulate emotions, which is a very different thing. Some people have today, for example, about corruption. Let's remember it was Aristotle who said that the most corrupt form of democracy was demagogy: "those who tend to tame the people, excite passions and feelings." It is demagogy that part of the promise of earthly paradises that do not exist and that part of prejudices and disqualifications of the adversary. And let me at this point remember what I wrote there is not much of the lawyer Ruiz Soroa, in an article entitled "The Danger of a Society Without Divisions": "When We may discursively propose its axis of antagonization, what I suggest is not a division of society into two or more different political proposals. What it does is to declare that society as a whole, decent people, is on the one side of the axis, of its own, and what remains on the other side is pure political and moral bargain. Once it is defined as "total" to the subject, it turns out that there is no space or legal or moral for any other social party, which, by definition, cannot exist but as anti-society or the anti-pueblo". Because populism has a default conception of the people's will that does not give rise to pluralism or deliberation. The polytologist Victor Lapuente himself expressed it by defining or instinct populist as "the tendency to imagine that our political opponents want something bad for the country or the people, when in reality the only thing they prefer are other ideological paths to solve problems of the people who also worry about them." Today we have just heard here an example of this populist demagogy saying that what we want is to enslave Galicia and impose the Troika's issues against the people and things like that. That's the way of populism, just the way from which the candidate has shifted to the Presidency of the Union. Because the candidate for the Presidency of the Union recognized in you last Tuesday the legitimate interlocutor that I really am. He appreciates your goodwill, without any doubt, and towards this coming legislation did not ask them not to be opposed, nor even to vote in favour of investment; he only asked them for the same treatment of respect that today and then, that day, they received from the candidate for the presidency of the Union. It wasn't like that in the past legislation. I think that was not good for the country, but, of course, after the elections, it is clear that it was much worse for the opposition. Well, the story was not silent, the story that the People's Party is going to destroy Galicia or annihilate the people of Galicia; a conscious and realistic citizenry who doesn't believe in those promises of unattainable lost paradises, which did not question the popular party's predisposition to achieve the common good, against what you say, that we are in a sort of organization with intrinsic evil. Today, of course, one has doubts that this is the position of the two groups, nationalist and populist, who preceded me in the use of the word. I think they didn't understand the message from the polls, and they asked us if we were to grow up in the country. We believe in the country, we believe in Galicia, what happens is that Galicia and the country don't believe in you. [[Applause]] Precisely for all these reasons, one believes that they should reconsider their position, cancel this populist instinct that makes it impossible to reach agreements, because, if we follow their own logic, what sense would it have to come to agreements with evil people who want to destroy the country and assault citizenship? If they don't come out of that speech that doesn't lead to anything good — neither to us nor to you nor to the country — we could even reach the corollary of populism itself of that: if only you represent the social majority and the people, in the end, why are more parties needed than theirs? If they are all already integrated into the tide circles, why have democracy?, why have Parliament? That is the way that, of course, we do not want to go and I believe that, in that sense, today — I insist — the holding of the investment debate in Parliament is a good news. Ladies and gentlemen, we respect each other. Let's start by respecting ourselves as adversaries, which is what the candidate did to you. If they defend the public in the broad sense—the concept of public in the broad sense—they will agree with what a new philosopher wrote, and I think that there will be a lot of sound, Byung-Chul-Han, of the University of Berlin, when he says that respect is the fundamental piece for the public; where respect disappears, the public falls. The decline of the public and the growing lack of respect are conditioned by each other. That speech of good against evil, of catastrophe and that all of the above is historically bad, nor is it what the Greek society wants, nor is it what our candidate defended, but what he defended was a majority, even more open than he has in this House, dialogueant, capable of understanding the other, of bringing up positions and reaching agreements. And that defense of this political and social model of tolerance and respect is what makes some of us feel tremendously proud of the president and his speech last Tuesday. [[Applause]] He said it was a realistic speech. It was a respectful speech and a speech for the covenants. The candidate proposed directly several agreements on education, economic strategy, production model, to support autonomy and entrepreneurship, rural and primary sectors, a demographic pact and on birth, a pact on self-financing, a pact on the arrival of AVE to Galicia, a pact on language and a pact on Greek cultural memory. But since all these pacts are important, it is more important that you have offered them the pact and the dialogue in Parliament, in this house, as a usual mechanism for decision-making in Greek politics. To rule in search of agreements is, as we all know, an old idea. The "consensus gentiums", of what Aristotle was talking about—which, by the way, gave something to be true when we were all in agreement with that reality—was eventually converted into a criterion of justice: Grocio, with the jusnaturalists, later passed to Locke, Rousseau, Hobbes; became incorporate to the economy through Pareto and Wicksell, and is recent in political philosophy with Rawls or Buchanan. A clear idea, which is that with the pact, if we all agree on something, we avoid the injustices of one person over another. That's the philosophy and the background of the content of what you have to propose pacts, to propose consensuss, when they're not necessary because you already have the absolute majority. So consensus and agreement can be a criterion of efficiency in the future, as Wicksell said, that spending is well done; it can be a criterion of justice, as Buchanan said, because, if we agree with the criteria of division and equity, it means that we are doing redistributive justice well, and of course it is a guarantee of stability and sustainability of standards, which is a good thing for ourselves. We certainly know that we are capable of reaching agreements. When we were in the opposition, in the legislation 2005-2009, up to 20 laws proposed by the Government went ahead with our favourable vote, including the Transparency Act, the Grants Act, the German Law against gender violence or the Book Law. In the past legislation, only one legislative proposal from the Government has been endorsed by all groups of the House. It was the Law of the Reform of the Vigo metropolitan area, which had already come very consensual, in addition to the good work of the Councillor and Vice President of the Union, by the agreement among the mayors involved in the construction of the metropolitan area. On the other hand, in all the proposals, the opposition has always done the same: it amends all and votes against. This may lead you to think that the majority group in the past legislation did not have a call for dialogue or a desire for dialogue. No, because there were more laws than they were unanimously approved. Which one? The ones that proposed the opposition groups. Then, in view of what you sometimes call "rollo", what we did was the legislating of the German autonomy in which most laws passed the opposition proposal reached six, and they were not smaller: reform of the Law of Popular Legislative Initiative, reform of the Law of Gender Violence, reform of the Law of Protection of Domestic Animals, new Law of Protection and against Discrimination of the LGBTI Group, Law of Terminal Sickness and Reform of the Chamber's Rules. Therefore, I believe that when you abandon the electoral campaign — which has already happened, because we are already in the investment — and leave the trenches and the confrontation, you will realize that most of them have a dialogue that is willing to reach agreements with you. Because, as I said before, the Greek society, the common people, is not represented by any single group; it is represented not by our group, neither by the tide group, nor by the block group, nor by the Socialist Group, it is represented by the whole House. And we trust that, over time, they realize that something we would have to do well to renew Galicia's majority confidence. I'm not saying you guys did anything wrong anymore, I'm saying we did something right. Not everything could be as bad as you've been tired of saying in the last four years, in something we'd have to deal with. Something made the Government head Alberto Núñez Feijóo who is shared by the social majority of the country. To think that reaching large agreements does not mean to stop being opposition, to suspend discrepancy, or to propose alternatives. That's the role of the groups that are in the opposition. Getting to big deals only means putting Galicia first, it just means equiping Galicia and the future generations of a stable political framework, designed generously by men and women of different positions and ideologies. As the candidate proposed, let's give the new generations a better political framework, a better rural environment, a better education, a better land management, a better definition of the public transport model, innovative companies, a better way to deal with the demographic challenge. As the candidate for the presidency of the Union said, Galicia is all of us; it's not from the PP, it's not from him and it's not from anyone. Galicia belongs to all groups of the House. And what we expect from you in this period is that you make it yours and that you become responsible for some of the big decisions that we have to make in the next few years. Only because of these statements, Mr candidate, are you worthy of the confidence of our group, of the People's Parliamentary Group, which, as I said, represents the majority of Galician society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u21	Thank you, Mr. Puy. I now give the floor to the candidate for the presidency of Galicia, Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo, to reply to the spokesperson and spokespersons of parliamentary groups. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions, thank you for the responses of spokesmen and spokesmen from the various parliamentary groups. No doubt — and it became clear this morning — we do not share the diagnosis, but there are many issues in which concerns are common. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that there are priorities in the country, and that these priorities we have to work on over the next four years. And I repeat today -- I said it also throughout the electoral campaign -- that it's more what unites us than what separates us. Perhaps the words of some voicer or voicer might lead you to think this is not so, but the truth is, here we are all representing the Greeks, all of them. And consequently, if the Greeks and the Greeks are able to work this morning at the factories, hospitals, universities, regardless of whether they voted on one or voted on another work together, if the Greeks and the Greeks are facing challenges together, if the Greeks and the Greeks are going to work either to talk or to have a coffee or to advance, or even the Welsh families, in which not all members of the family vote the same, are able to be relatives and to love each other, I suppose we will be able to prioritize, to row and to work. [[Applause]] That's why I ask again, I tell you again, and I ask you again, despite the differences that divide us over the next four years, until 2020, we never forget what we are. We are the representatives of a people, of a united people, of a people who respect and of a people who believe in themselves. And consequently, I'm going to follow what I said and what I think, because I think it's the best way to try to unite and not divide. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce myself as a Galician militant. You will understand that at this biological height of my life, and especially at this political height of my life, I have no other commitment, no other. Military of the country, Galician militant. It gives the feeling in some parts of your interventions, with greater intensity or less intensity, that you are here as candidates or candidates for your parties. Finally, each one is presented as he considers it appropriate. I will continue to defend Galicia. If I get the majority of the House this afternoon, I'm not going to defend the voters of the People's Party, I'm not going to defend my party, I'm going to defend all the Greeks and the Greeks, I'm going to vote for what they've voted for. That's the commitment I assumed during the election campaign, the commitment I assumed in the first investment speech and the commitment I want to make at the beginning of the last one. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, you say we will always find ourselves in agreements to defend Galicia and public services. We agree. To defend Galicia and the country's viable public services, we agree. He also says that it is about rethinking Galicia, because if we trust the future of the country, we must rethink the country to face the future that we have ahead. And I agree again. You say you're going to make a strict and strict opposition to government control. That's doing your duty. I therefore agree that the BNG will make a strict and rigorous opposition to the control of the Government. True, Your Honor, besides telling me all this, he told me that I was a traitor to Galicia. Of course, the first assertions are not very well combined with this diagnosis. But finally, when hypocrisy is of such bad quality, the most important thing is to tell the truth. Your Honor, I am not only here to be President of Galicia; I am here to be President of all the Greeks and the Greeks, who voted for the BNG as well. Don't worry, I'm not gonna betray anyone because I've never done it or I'm gonna keep doing it. [[Applause]] Your Honor, you told me about Lola, Manuel and Rosa, these are all in the families of most of the Greeks that we are here. I also have in my family Rosas, Manueles and Lolas. I have in my family relatives with all their members unemployed. Yes, Your Honor; of course, Your Honor; of course, Your Honor. I got them. I know what unemployment is perfectly; there's no need for any nationalist to remind me, I know perfectly. [[Applause]] Look, do you really think the voters of the Galician People's Party, 47.5% of the votes that the Galician People's Party has obtained, are they all rich?, do you think, therefore, that 47.5% of the Greeks are rich, Your Honor? How can it be said that rich people vote for one another and those who go through difficulties vote for another? I'm criticized for committing myself to work for the next four years. While I'm president of the Galician Union, I'm going to say that the country's first problem is employment. That's why, of course, I'm going to commit myself, and I'm going to commit to each and every one of our economic, industrial and social decisions. Your Honor, you tell me about the job. The summary is: from the last time I was here in the investment speech in 2012 until now, unemployment has dropped in Galicia in 80,000 people and social security membership in Galicia has increased by 42,000 people. That's the data, Your Honor; that's the data you know well. And it wouldn't be reasonable simply to discuss the unemployment log data and the social security affiliation data. You say you will support us in the financing of the Autonomous Community; I hope so, Your Honor. I won't remind you how that government you were supporting in Madrid, the government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, agreed to a financing system with Catalonia and then invited the rest to see whether we agreed or not. I won't remind you, Your Honor, because everyone knows that. [[Applause]] So there was the nationalist slogan of "intelligent cooperation." I was BNG supporting Rodríguez Zapatero in Madrid and it was intelligent cooperation. Now it looks like there's no such intelligence, as I can check on today. Look, Your Honor, am I Galician militant? Yes. Why am I going to fight? I'm going to fight to keep the jobs in Dumbria, to keep the jobs in Cee and keep the jobs in Sabón. Are you going to fight for it? We will therefore agree to fight for all this, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I've always done it. Your Honor, the price of milk is one of the concerns of the Government of Galicia, but it should also be a concern of all the governments of Galicia. I inherited a price from the milk at 25 cents when you ruled, now it's at 28.2 cents. It's true, Your Honor, if you ask me if I'm satisfied I'll say no. Now, if you propose me a reprimand for the price of milk, let me remind you that the price of milk that I inherited from a nationalist at the Middle Rural Council was 25 cents in 2009. Your Honor, you're wrong when you say that in the automobile we lose 3,000 jobs; no, Your Honor, we increase a thousand jobs. We now have a workload for a decade and there's an investment of EUR 3,000 million in the automotive sector. Don't you really think we've done something right in the automotive sector in the country?, don't you think, Your Honor, that you've done something good for the automotive workers and workers?, don't you think we've done something right in our contacts with PSA-Peugeot-Citroën?, what have we done right, for example, by saving the installations of PSA-Peugeot-Citroën by bringing a law to this Parliament, so we've been criticized, Your Honor? [[Applause]] Of course we did. Yesterday we opened ship H; investment: 20 million euros. If we hadn't brought that law, ship H, project K-9, project V-20, zero, lordship; paralysing the PSA-Peugeot-Citroën factory as a result of the overthrow of Vigo's General Urban Management Plan. Of course we do, Your Honor. We applied it and at this moment we can look hopefully at all investments in PSA-Peugeot-Citroën. But why don't you be glad that we did things right in the automobile if it's a fundamental industry in Galicia? When Citroën goes wrong, it's because of the board, and when Citröen goes well, it's despite the board. Your Honor, this kind of soliloquies don't convince anyone. Believe me, it doesn't make much sense to criticize the automobile or criticize the naval. We won't remember how we found the naval, you know it just like me. We're not going to remember a commissioner of a Socialist Party in Europe who just wanted to close all the Greek shipyards claiming that so-called "tax lease". So, Your Honor, we were alone in Europe trying to figure out a solution for tax lease. [[Applause]] Your Honor, I don't think it's fair to say we haven't done anything against macho violence. You call it gender-based violence, I call it -- in my opinion -- by his name -- macho violence. Yes, Your Honor, macho violence. [[Protests.]] I don't think it's reasonable to say this because the commitment to male violence has been unequivocal for all of these eight years. First, we opened the only integral center for victims of male violence. We have made an agreement in coordination with the State to strengthen and share the foundations of the people who commit crimes against women's freedom. We've made the best coordination with the municipalities, increasing by more than thirty-five percent the budget with the municipalities, especially to strengthen the network of more than eighty women's information centres. In economic terms, there are three types of economic aid, and you know them. Since 2009, more than two thousand and five hundred women have perceived some of them, despite the crisis, despite the recession and despite the fact that the budget went down every year. And in the last plenary session of the past legislation, we approved an initiative by BNG proposal, by proposal from the BNG, Your Honor. That's why... on BNG's proposal. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And if you want, as you told me, to continue talking about violence, we are at your disposal, you have no doubt. We have maintained our commitment to the College of Psychology, which since 2009 has served more than 3,000 women and more than 500 men. At the juridical front we give counseling and free assistance at any of Galician lawyers' schools, and Junta, for the first time in history, is implicated in cases of macho violence; for the first time, Your Honor. So I don't think, honestly, that we deserve that qualification. Your Honor, with all due respect, we must defend the laws, we agree, even if you don't like it. Laws must defend them. So we're going to defend the Law of voluntary termination of pregnancy and we're going to defend the right to conscientious objection of the optional and optional of Galicians. And by defending those two rights we have to get all the voluntary interruptions of the pregnancy that protects the law to be done in Greek hospitals. That's the commitment we have. And I can assure you that we have to reconcile the woman's right to voluntary termination of pregnancy and the right of a gynecologist or surgeon who doesn't want to perform that intervention, because both women and women have rights. That's why we have to reconcile those rights and give a solution, and the solution is that in the vast majority of cases, except in very specific pathologies where mother's life may be in danger, if they can and should do all the interventions in Galician hospitals. That's the commitment, and I'm going to repeat it. To say that at this moment the language does not protect it... I thank, in any case, some phrase that I took from its intervention, because it seems to me to be interesting phrases, because I warned — and I hope I am not wrong — that, for the first time, you had said that the language unites us. Indeed, Your Honor. That's why it's not appropriate for anyone to approach her, it's not appropriate for a few to take a close to something that is everyone's prejudice to most of them. Of course the language unites us! [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let's keep moving. Your Honor, yes, we are going to move forward because 98% of the population says they understand much or enough about the Greek, because 97% says they know about it, because 83% says they know how to write it, and 97% says they know how to read it. Therefore, Your Honor, if we have the greatest knowledge quotas of the Greek, what we lack is that youth speaks. What we lack is not knowing him, which is what I can guarantee, what we lack is practicing it and speaking it. That's what we lack, Your Honor. But that — as you will understand — is beyond the competences of any democratic government: the obligation or obligation of someone to speak in the language that calls upon the deputy politician. What we have, of course, is that the knowledge of the Greek, spoken and written, today is above any other historical moment of Galicia, today is above any other political moment and the history of Galicia. Different question, Your Honor, is how we can talk about it, and that's another question. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we have approved the plan for the dynamization of the Greek language in the economic fabric. We approve the.gal domain, which is operating on the board and any citizen who wants to use it, and I thank the promoters of that initiative. The English language is taught in thirty-five universities all over the world, twice as much as it was taught in 2004. In Galicia we strengthen, through a law, the social and economic ties with the lusophone world, 250 million people. I refer to the statement made by President Cavaco Silva at the Royal Galega Language Academy in Coruña in front of the academics, the president of the Language and before me. I refer to what the President of the Portuguese Republic said by thanking the initiative of the Government of Greece in relation to the Lusophone and Portuguese world. Of course we need a great deal of agreement for the protection, for the dissemination and extension of the English language; of course we will adopt a language dynamisation plan in youth; of course we will drive the production of teaching materials in English; and of course we will consolidate more space for Greek in the ICT world. Of course you do, you have a commitment that we're going to do it. We'd like your help, no doubt. But I repeat again: I don't think we should deserve this kind of recognition. Mrs. Pontón, with all due respect, re-claiming the Bipartite's wind competition is not the best way to stay away from alleged irregularities in the Government. You cannot claim the Bipartite contest and then automatically speak of exemplaryness and democratic regeneration, because these are two absolutely contradictory terms. If you want, look at the hemerothec, you brought the hemerothec, and look at what the socialist government thought of the nationalist wind competition; it doesn't have to look at what I say, it's done only in the newspapers of the time. That's why, I don't think, Your Honor, we can discuss the wind competition. We can discuss — and it seems that BNG likes — that during the economic crisis we continued to subsidize wind power to large electricians. That's a proposal where, from what I see, both you and the Marea Group are in favour; that's your approach. If you want to give money to wind companies so they can make inefficient wind farms, that's a clear economic policy. But then you don't argue about subsidizing large businesses and multinationals, because that's a contradiction in terms. Of course, I'm glad that farmers' children can study at universities. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because we have the lowest university rates in Spain and because the Welsh university is the most accessible in Spain. The son of a farmer, the son of a worker, the son of a village woman, may even be president of the board. And that is something else we have achieved in the democratic society in which we live, Your Honor. There's something else: I can assure you that this is something big; something big, Your Honor, no doubt. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, Mrs. Pontón, I am glad of your tone. And I recognize that in the Return Plan that you have proposed to us, I believe we have many points to move forward together, in the Return Plan for children and children who were born in Bos Aires, Caracas, Montevideo or any European city. [[Uruguay]] Of course we have to talk, and I would like to make some proposals with you. Be sure that we are going to make proposals and we will look at how we can buy them, theirs and those of your group; not to you but to the interests it represents. I thank — I insist — the tone of your intervention. I think it's worth doing what you said: finding agreements to defend Galicia, finding agreements to defend public services, rethinking Galicia's future and making a strict and rigorous opposition to the Government. I think those are the big issues that I'm keeping from your intervention. Mr. Leicega, I would like to thank you for your intervention, which is well worth commenting. First of all, I would like to thank your party for the abstention of your group from the Congress of Deputies. I don't thank you as a member of the Galician People's Party, as you will understand. [[Laughter]] Don't worry, I won't ask you to abstain in this investment session. But yes, Your Honor, as a citizen and as an ordinary representative of the State in Galicia, I think the Socialist Party did what it had to do, because the Socialist Party is the party that governed Spain most of the time, and knows the difficulties of Spain's governance. [[Laughter]] Therefore, as a citizen, as president of the Galician Union in functions, as a Greek, I thank the Socialist Party for its willingness to govern Spain. Because Spain's governance has an immediate relationship with Galician governance. Because if there is no Government in Spain, Your Honor, you and I will continue to wonder if they are going or not meeting the deadlines for AVE, as a result that a single high-speed contract has not been made in Spain in the last ten months. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega says that "love Galicia is personal and intimate," and I agree, Your Honor. But, then, why do you question whether I want Galicia or not? Don't question him. Well, that's a big advance, because there are voices that question whether I want my country. It's surprising that the Greeks vote for someone who doesn't want the country that represents them. But, finally, I thank him anyway, because I have certainly misunderstood his approach. Your Honor, I'm worried about demography, of course I am. But to say that demography is in regression as a result of this party or of this government, you who know more about demography than I do — and I hope to take advantage of your knowledge for the benefit of all — you know that this demographic curve — that you could perfectly trace it, that you studied this issue, starts in the 1980s down. Yes, Your Honor. Look, 43,000 in 1975; by 1985 we were already in 28,000. With Bipartite in 2005, for example, 21,000 people were born in Galicia; in 2010, they were born 22,047. [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying in 2010 they were born 22,047... Ah! that you ask me those who were born in the year... I'm sure you have the answer, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Don't worry, but I anticipate it: between 19,000 and 22,000; we don't leave. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, it's like I say, at least... [[Protests.]] In any case, I want to keep thinking that you know about demography. If you now come to tell me that in a year that governed the PSOE and the BNG were born more boys because it governed the PSOE and the BNG, you obviously don't know about demography, Mr. Leicega. And I say it absolutely and cordially. [[Applause]] So let's do the right thing. Look, Your Honor, I don't think it's a minor issue on the subject of demography. That's why I accept you to raise this matter, because for us demography is a vital matter, it's a fundamental matter. And that's why I don't understand why they didn't support the demographic plan, the only one that showed up. It could be good, regular or bad, but at least we would have an alternative demographic plan. It's funny, Your Honor, that we have to get to the government without the previous demographic plan being made. But, finally, we have reached the government and we have made the demographic plan that we now have in force. From this demographic plan, we are the Autonomous Community with more tax deductions from Spain; we are the Autonomous Community with more children's schools in Spain; we are the Autonomous Community with a 100 euros a month card Welcome to the baby's life during the first year of life, and up to three years in families with economic difficulties; and we are a Community in Spain, Your Honor, that every time a member of the Government, every time the Social Policy Council, the Education Adviser, the Fairy Counsellor, any Government member, we speak, we put as the main structural problem of the country is the demographic issue. I appreciate you bringing this matter up, and I would like, as is logical, to be able to work on it. But since you have the data, and you have made an economic speech, in my opinion, the most solid of the House listeners, I mean, Your Honor, that you know as well as I do that the demographic problem is not the people who leave Galicia, unless you want to use the correct data. Galicia in 2015 was the autonomous community with a lower rate of emigration from Spain. The exits of Galicia accounted for 1.1 % of the population, compared to almost 2% of the average of Spain. Galicia is also the autonomous community in which fewer young people came out, in proportion to the population of that age from 16 to 34: 2.2 % compared to 3.3 % on average in Spain. In 2007 it was the year that more boys went out, almost fourteen thousand. And I'm not going to say the boys came out because the Socialist Party was ruling. No, Your Honor. [[Protests.]] What I'm telling you is that if you want to take the entire balance, the migration balance accumulated from 2009 until now, the balance is positive, because more than you've entered the entire population, Your Honor. We have a positive balance of 17,500 people. More than 17,500 people came in. They left Galicia 207,000 people and entered Galicia 225,000 people. Only through the data can we build some proposals. That's why it doesn't seem reasonable for a person with a solid economic discourse to tell me that demography is a problem of emigration. You know it's not a problem of emigration, neither within Spain nor outside Spain. That's why I think we should shorten the problem not with a sentence made, but with a set of difficult measures to address, either in one or in two, or in three legislations. That's why I told the BNG spokesperson, and also you, that we would be interested in having a return program, yes, of the children of immigrants and also of the young people who had to leave during the economic recession. Even though they came from Galicia less than the rest of Spain, there are Thursdays that went to the cities you mean, the answer is yes; but they were less than the rest of the autonomous communities, the answer is also yes. Tell you that the recovery is in progress, and I agree. Tell you that this recovery is weak. So we're not going to argue about it if I tell you that when I got to the government, GDP dropped by 4% and is now rising by more than 3%. Of course it could be better, but raising a GDP of more than 3% is not easy. Your Honor, in 2009 — when you spoke in this House — GDP in Galicia has fallen by 4.5%; GDP is now in Galicia by 3.4%. In 2009, gentlemen, exports fell in Galicia by more than 19%, and now we have an export record in the historical series of exports by 2013, by 2014, by 2015, and we are about to solve 2016 also with an export record. Your Honor, the index of industrial production in Galicia when I arrived in the Government was down to 20%; today the index of industrial production is the second best in Spain, 4.9%, and growing, Your Honor. Your Honor, I think recovery can be discussed if it is intense or less intense. While there is unemployment, there is insufficient recovery; we agree. And the registered unemployment has, as the spokesperson for the Popular Parliamentary Group said, thirty-six consecutive months down, and today we have 23,000 less unemployed people than a year ago; and unemployment in Spain has dropped by 9% and in Galicia by more than 10%. Your Honor, we have less unemployment registered today than in 2015 in 2014, in 2013, in 2012, in 2011, in 2010 and in 2009; less unemployment than when I first spoke here after the elections in March 2009. Social Security memberships have been growing for thirty-one months in a row. Today we have 20,000 affiliates over a year ago, today there are more affiliates than when I made the investment speech in 2012; plus memberships to Social Security. We're no longer talking about EPA or unemployment, more direct memberships to Social Security. When I arrived in the Government, Your Honor, memberships of Social Security had dropped in 2008-2009 about 50,800 in a year, and today we have 20,300 more affiliates in the last year. And if you want to take the series, I remember the data: 44,200 more affiliates today than four years ago. Obviously, Your Honor, I can't be quiet about unemployment, it's my first economic concern, because it's the first concern of the Greeks. In EPA you know that we're 16.3% — the last known EPA — Spain is 18.9 percent. The juvenile unemployment rate is below 4.3 points from the Spanish average, ten points less than when the 2012 legislation began, youth unemployment. What about temporality? Of course we're concerned about timing, Your Honor. We're concerned about two things: precariousness and temporality and low wages, just like you. But three out of four Greek employees have an indefinite contract, three out of four, 608,000 Greeks and Greeks have an indefinite contract, 75%, and the weight of part-time employment has been reduced by almost 5%. Naturally, Your Honor, each one has his own opinion. But the Government of Galicia in 2009 and 2012 had to manage the recession and economic crisis, which you very well pointed to the recession and economic crisis of southern Europe, Spain and the European Union, as a whole in the euro area. So we've had to manage for the last eight years. And that's why I appreciate your diagnosis of the economic situation, although, as is logical, with different intensities. You say and you criticize that in Galicia there is little foreign investment, and yet in the preceding paragraphs you say that many companies are coming to Galicia to buy Galician companies. What are we left with, Mr. Leicega? You're worried about both of them? Well, it's hard. What do you care about, whether there's little investment or much? From there, let's agree. What can't be, Your Honor, is that you criticize me for one thing and for the opposite. That doesn't seem very reasonable, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, I don't think a person in your training and information can say how you said there's no megawatts installed in Galicia since we arrived at the Government. Your Honor, what a pity I don't have the note to tell you exactly! But I can assure you that over six hundred megawatts. Going from 28 to 600 is a difference I don't think it's appropriate for an economic curriculum like yours. [[Murmurs.]] Of course we are concerned about the dairy sector, Your Honor. Of course, we are concerned that cooperative grassroots organizations should be supported. Then we'll meet again. Is there any chance that it will be? The answer is yes. It's the first time we have a cooperative that can now be representing 15% of the total gain in Galicia; it's the first time, Your Honor. I think you have to support them, yes, and I think you have to support them in all the legal ways we can. And that's why I don't think it's a government balance saying that thanks to us we made cooperatives, but I don't think it's not a opposition complaint saying that because of us there's no cooperatives. Look, Your Honor, our model would undoubtedly be the Asturian, where a cooperative has 85% of the total milk produced in Asturias. And of the four cooperatives, three in favor and one against. But let's keep moving, Your Honor. And we welcome from here the initiative of Brothers, Feiraco and Melisanto to join and work together in the dairy sector. [[Applause]] We're going to keep working, and I think we're also in the way of Santiago. Santiago's Way can't be a amusement park, certainly. And that's why we'd like that in all the municipalities where Santiago's Way passes, and especially where Santiago's Way ends, we could work together. Of course, for us it won't stay, from the very first moment we're preparing Jacob 2021. Your Honor, when I arrived at the government, Jacob was in 2010; I'm not going to talk about what I found ready when I arrived at the government in 2009. In the Competitiveness Agenda, Your Honor, we left a strategic plan presented before the elections: the Strategic Plan of our economy until 2020. We introduced ourselves to the elections knowing what we wanted to do. We don't introduce ourselves by saying things, no, but by writing, by putting this into practice and explaining things. prestigious economists, like you, and economists of the Galician Economic Forum and other economists have seen the plan, we ask them for contributions. So, Your Honor, we have an agenda, we have an Economic Planning Agenda, we have a Digital Agenda, we have an Industry 4.0 Agenda, we have a Smart Specialization Strategy. We have all the programmes that are economically active, innovation and competitiveness. Your Honor, of course we are trying to reduce bureaucratic problems. That's why we approved the Entrepreneurship Act and that's why we approved the Doing Business offices. And that's why, Your Honor, today at the CEO — or yesterday — came out of the possibilities that a company has to install itself, and that it doesn't have to ask for all prior certifications to the Town Councils, but an intermediary company itself, under the responsibility of the company, to which everything that this entrepreneur is doing is doing well from the local point of view. So I think we actually have taken many steps in this matter, and I am convinced that you know them and therefore value them. Your Honor, we control the public deficit, and that is the main European commitment, and you say I haven't talked about Europe. If the autonomous communities and the central government had the public deficit in Spain, now Spain wouldn't have most of the economic problems it has. And if we are a European region where we are respected both in the Committee of Regions and in every interview with any Commissioner, that is, Minister of Europe, it is because we are an autonomous community that we know above all that we are Europeans. And, therefore, our commitments to Europe from Galicia are being fulfilled. And it doesn't seem reasonable, Your Honor, that you charge me an increase in debt, though more surprising yet is that you make me the spokesman of En Marea speak of public debt. But the truth is, on the subject of public debt, you know that we are the Community which has increased the public debt of all autonomous communities the least. And you know that when I arrived at the Government, the percentage of public debt was higher than the average of the rest of the autonomous communities. And today we're almost four points below, something we'll have advanced. It can't be, Your Honor, that if you argue with me if we increase public debt and while we have to invest more in health care and education. I believe exactly what your model is, although — I insist — I am absolutely convinced that you agree with the control of the public deficit. In fact, his party proposed a constitutional reform in August to meet the public deficit as a constitutional principle. Imagine if you'll agree or disagree! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we're going to keep working, and I appreciate all the contributions of the Socialist Party, which were not very few. We agree with the demographics. We agree that a Competitive Agenda is needed. We agree that there is a need to reduce bureaucratic barriers in order to create companies in the country. We agree, ladies and gentlemen, in a fiscal policy, which for the first time I note — at least I heard — that the Socialist Party could agree to lower taxes. I know that for a time lower taxes were left-handed, then it wasn't, but it seems reasonable that lower taxes, if we can, would be something desirable. But we're going to keep building. And in the financing of the autonomous communities I especially need the Socialist Party, I need it, we especially need it. Because in the financing of autonomous communities there will be much to say about the autonomous presidents of the Socialist Party in the autonomous communities, and of course the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Madrid. Your Honor, I don't think it's reasonable to say that we forget basic public services. I don't think it's reasonable to say that we have a lot of waiting list when in all the waiting list data we have less waiting list that the average health services in the autonomous communities, or that health care is badly valued in Galicia when it turns out that in the last health barometer, that in the Ministry of Health, primary care for the Greeks has improved or continues to be equal to 78%, only to 13% has gotten worse, and hospital consultations have improved to 66%, and hospital care has improved to 66%, and emergencies have improved or continue to follow the same for 58%. So, I don't think so, Your Honor, that we can reflect a bad image of Greek public health. I am, of course, proud of the public health of my country. And every time I have an opportunity to talk about public health with the rest of the autonomous communities, one of the things I put on top of Galicia's table is that, in my view, the Galician Health Service and Osakideza are the two best health services in the Spanish National Health System. Mr. Leicega, I don't think we should have such a pessimistic approach to health. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] In any case, I reiterate — not to extend myself — that I thank you for your contribution. It seems to me that the contribution in the economic sphere of the Socialist Party is absolutely essential for progress. Your Honor, allow me: 978 megawatts, sixty wind farms installed with a power of 978 megawatts, 1 billion euros in industrial plans. This is the data, Your Honor. I suppose this data, at least, will make you think about the fact that you don't have a correct diagnosis on the wind theme. I'm done. Your Honor, tell me you think it's good that our planning is a plan to increase employment by 80,000 to 100,000 jobs. Now, ask me with good judgment how it's going to be done. I tell you, look, Your Honor, today watching the newspaper La Voz de Galicia: "The Deputy seeks to create 13,000 jobs in this legislature," the Deputy of the Crown. Only PSOE's deputies put 13,000 jobs, we've got 50,000!, Your Honor. We're not bad anymore, are we? [[Laughter]] We're moving forward without a doubt towards that goal. [[Applause]] So... and I don't bring this data as criticism, but as chronic, Mr. Leicega. [[Applause]] And I very much appreciate the Deputy of the Crown who knows that within his commitments he's also trying to dynamize the economy, so they manage public resources and that's why they have a very healthy budget, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I'd like to have the budget of the Coruña Parliament from the point of view of sanitation, yes, Your Honor, yes. The former president of the Crown Deputy, of the People's Party, what he did was to leave the public debt of the Crown Deputy to zero, zero. It would not be wrong, Your Honor, that inheritance for any president of an agency. So, thank you for helping us create the 100,000 jobs. [[Murmurs.]] But I think we can do it. Yes, Your Honor, I think we can do it. Why? Because in this legislation unemployment has dropped 80,000. If in the last four years — where we had two years of crisis, 2012 and 2013, very strong, sorry, 2013 and 2014, and started raising a little economy in 2015 and substantially improved in 2016 — we were able to get unemployment lists down 80,000, I think we can, despite Brexit and the American elections, believe that we can, with these two parentheses, have the European economy and the Spanish economy — especially the latter — continue to improve, continue to grow, and we can get the 80,000 jobs. Mr. Leicega, I'm done. I also agree with you, and I thank you for that contribution, because I think it's a rather patriotic contribution, that this is not the time to propose statutory reforms. Indeed, Your Honor, in the bad situation in which we are at the moment and in the national context in which we are in, it is not appropriate for Galicia to open up and question the principles which you yourself defend and which I ratify: equality, respect and that no territory or historical nationality has better conditions than any other territory, such as Galicia, historical nationality. I especially appreciate it, I think it's a way of working together. We will be very attentive to the proposals made by the Socialist Party of Catalonia on this matter. And I hope and hope that the new leaders of the Socialist Party in Spain will also have the same sensitivity you have just shown today. So, Mr. Leicega, we agreed. We agree on fundamental issues, such as demographics, and on the need for an education pact. Indeed, we do not waste any more time, before Christmas we have to know what the revalide that comes to replace selectivity is essential. We agree, Your Honor, that public transport is fundamental. And we agreed, Your Honor, that the status of autonomouss in Galicia must certainly improve it. And that's why within the economic approach, autonomouss will be a permanent reference in this legislation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, trying to answer — or at least to reflect — the speech of the representative, the spokesman, of the En Marea Group. Look, Your Honor, with all due respect I'm telling you, with the same respect you've read your intervention... If I may, Your Honor, thank you for letting me read the notes. [[Pause.]] I say he started talking about sins — quoting me — and saying that those who sin are the ones who rule. It's quite interesting. I mean, when you rule in the Coruña, in Santiago and in Ferrol, you don't sin, you just rule. Don't you realize, Your Honor, that they rule in many places? I don't know if your group, or similar, or similar, or -- the qualification allows me to be unable to find it -- but you rule in many places. Ask the President of the Balearic Parliament to rule. He rules the House. Ask the mayor of the Coruña, of Ferrol, of Santiago, if they rule. Ask Generalitat de Cataluña to rule. Ask Barcelona, ask Madrid. Your Honor, do you mean that all governments that rule are synonymous with corruption and when opposed are synonymous with ordinary people? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, don't you realize that, when you talk from here, you're talking about a lot of territories where you're ruling? Yes, Your Honor, not you, your group. Allow me, I understand it's your group. If not, in the reply, you have to clarify me exactly whether you rule or not. Because we interpret that the government of the Coruña is of its group, or that of Santiago. All right, all right. So, since you rule in many cities in Galicia, in many autonomous communities, and preside over cameras, parliaments, I suppose you will improve the conclusion that those who govern produce corruption and those who are in opposition are the voice of people. The spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group spoke in a very concrete way about the matter, I think it was a brilliant intervention, because I don't think it's reasonable, Your Honor, that the first words are to say that the Government always represents corruption. Because that, Your Honor, in democracy is very serious. Look, Your Honor, I don't think we should question the free and democratic approach of the Greeks. I thought your first intervention you could take advantage of to apologize to the people. Yes, Your Honor, for saying that the People's Party has won because there are many alienated and ignorant Greeks well deserve an apology in the House, Your Honor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I don't know if you'll do it, there's still a shift left. But if you don't, I apologize for this pronouncement by a Greek politician concerning the people of Galicia, I formally request it. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, it is not reasonable to come here with a speech — which, of course, I respect; above all, the first part of the speech — which is practically the same as I heard in 2012. If you take the Journal of Sessions, at the investment session of the year 2012 — which introduced the spokesperson for the People's Parliamentary Group — besides saying that he didn't deserve to be President of the Board, and also saying that if there were elections at the time of the investment, we had already lost them, and in addition saying that we would escape like rats from San Caetano, in addition to saying all this, Your Honor, that I heard... I thank you for changing tone. It seems to me that this is very appropriate, firstly, for this Parliament, but also for its group, also for its colleagues. I think that's very important and that's why I can only thank you for that change of tone, because I think it's a very important step forward. Look, Your Honor, we're here just because the Greeks wanted us to be. They wanted it to be you and me, and all the Members and Members here. We're here because we're representatives of the people. They are the ones who command, gentlemen, they are the ones who decide, they are the owners of the minutes that we momentarily represent. It's not reasonable, therefore, to make this kind of comment, I say it normally. That's why I think you should apologize to the House. But that's a matter for you. Look, Your Honor, even though they haven't noticed yet, Galicia has clearly responded to the politics of you in. Galicia never voted, Galicia voted "yes". "In Galicia, yes," the Greeks understood perfectly. And that's why we don't think the Greeks are wrong again to vote. The Greeks are right to vote, Your Honor. When the Greeks voted to you in some councils -- even in one council -- they won, yes, Your Honor, in one win, in others they rule and they don't win, but they don't, in one win -- we never insult people because they vote for you, if people vote for you, it's because they're free in their vote. And, therefore, we will always respect, without any doubt, the proposals that you transfer to us, you have no doubt. You're proud of your governments, I think. You're proud of Ferrol's government, I think. He said Galician municipal model was Ferrol's model, I think. Everyone knows how Ferrol's government is, but if you like it... it's broken, Your Honor, with internal messes, and with messes in the Socialist Party and between the Tides and Podemos. But it looks good on you. Is there any question we can learn from the Ferrol Town Hall? We'd take note. In the Coruña, Your Honor, I don't know exactly what government is. I respect the mayor of the Crown very much, he's an educated and courteous person. But to say that we must take note of the Town Hall... with all due respect, Your Honor, the only thing I have heard lately from the Town Hall is that the Socialist Party wants to enter the Government of the Town Hall. It's because the Socialist Party has discovered that in Ferrol the best way to make opposition is to be in the government of En Marea. That's why, Your Honor, because I don't quite understand exactly what the fundamental objective of this is. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, paraphrasing Santiago's first building, sometimes there's an easy speech and others there's reality. There's sometimes an easy speech, but there's reality, and now you're in reality. We'll keep working, if you like. I certainly couldn't point to your proposals. If you've called my attention to criticism of debt, it's not the first time they've done it. You keep working on the same economic policy that AGE worked on. It wasn't quite very successful from an economic point of view. From the electoral point of view, it was less than expected, but you certainly had more success than other political parties. But, of course, Your Honor, what is critical of us? AGE's proposal in Galicia's budget is always to raise public debt, and then they always claim that we increase public debt. What exactly is the proposal? I'm telling you to coordinate us, Your Honor. Look, denounce here and condemn people who are denounced by any citizen in a trial. I don't think that's a good intervention, Mr. Villares. Because I suppose many judges and magistrates will be asking how it's possible that someone, before the end of a trial, has already pronounced a sentence. There are 3,577 patients treated with hepatitis C in Galicia, we are Spain's second autonomous community with more treatment based on the affected population. Galicia has invested 130 million euros in hepatitis C and is going to continue working on hepatitis C, so I think it was also a missed opportunity to reasonably adjust that way of expressing itself. [[Applause]] Look, I noticed, it says that public employees dropped 11,000 in health care and 5,000 in education. I'll read you exactly the template of the Galego Health Service closed at the end of 2015: 86,108 staff. When I got to Galician Union there were 86,858, that is, we dropped 0.9%, about 600 troops. How can it be said in a House that we have decreased 11,000 health professionals and 5,000 education professionals when stability in Galicia's board was the fundamental line for eight years? There were no redundancies from public servants, there was no reduction in the interim staff schedule, it's the autonomous community that kept the staff more stable. Yes, Your Honor, we are asking for a great economic effort from the public servants of Galicia, and they have participated more than any in the maintenance of essential public services, putting part of their salary in favour of essential public services. I will never thank you enough, because I know perfectly well that a public employee who delivers much of the extraordinary payment to fund hospitals, education and social services deserves a government respect, starting with his president. Yes, sir, we will. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I suppose you know the standard of justice, at least in the Autonomous Community. And I suppose you won't amend me if I tell you that there are 260 more self-employed people in the Autonomous Community from 2009 to 2015, 260 more officials, 39 more units, specifically 15 new judges, and 19 new magistrates' courts. And that we're investing in the administration of justice more than ever, more than any other government. To say we don't take care of public services, Mr. Villares, with all due respect, I think it's just a lack of the truth. Shall we continue to work for public services? The answer is yes. We'll continue to work for public services, of course. And employment and public services will be fundamental. And that's why I thank the BNG voicer that if we're in line with priorities, we're moving forward. If the priority is Galicia and public services, we'll move on. I suppose you'll want to move forward if we agree on something. That's what I hope, and I hope, Your Honor, don't let me down for these four years. Look, Your Honor, with all due respect — and I will conclude by saying that in the planning of the territory we did things backwards. But, Mr. Villares, you say that the first thing to do in spatial planning is to approve the land management guidelines. But don't you know they're approved? No, Your Honor, the first thing we did was start with the beginning. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The first, the Land Management Guidelines; the second, the Coastal Plan; the third, the Landscape Atlas; the fourth, the Land Law; the fifth, the Land Law Regulation; and the sixth, a new Land Management Law; because it takes twenty-five years and we have to reform it. [[Murmurs.]] Your Honor, that's exactly what we did. [[Applause]] How are we going to reverse if what we did was the beginning! Your Honor, we have no commitments to social inclusion... you know that we have commitments to social inclusion, a lot of commitments to social inclusion. And the problem, Your Honor, is that there's still demand for social inclusion, that's the problem the country has. But not that we don't answer. The Social Policy Adviser and I, who attended it, signed with the 26 NGOs of poverty and social exclusion in Galicia a unique social agenda for the country in which the municipalities were located, was the president of the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, the Galician Union, the NGOs and us. Social inclusion, Your Honor, has increased the budget since I am President of the Union at 47.2%. Starting from a budget of 66 million euros, we're about to get 100 million euros, exactly 97.8. The electric ticket, avoid light supply cuts, help school material, intervention program with children and their families, the empty housing census... why don't you want to support these initiatives in some of your municipalities? Why, Your Honor? You say an example of social integration income is what the Town Hall does. I reiterate my respect for the Town Hall, but allow me to remind you of the data. Look, the Town Hall of Coruña approved a split of 2 million euros, 2.1 for social integration income. Do you know what you just did this week or the week before? Download from 2.1 million to 300,000 euros. Is this the income of social integration that you propose to me? The Galician Union increases the income of social integration, the Coruña lowers the income of social integration, and this is the proposal it proposes to us, Your Honor? Do you know why you lowered your income? Because the Galician Union covers the income of social integration in the autonomous community. It is true that the budget change meets the data — according to which I am told, I insist — to improve the debts it has with Emalcsa and to buy bicycles. I don't get into those priorities. Your Honor, don't laugh. That's what the Town Hall approved. So, I think that kind of thing is worth bringing them the collation, because it's not reasonable to be told that we don't take care of those who have less. I said it and it is written: the first concern is that the worst are happening, the second concern is to fight against the eradication of male violence and the third concern is to take care of the people who are ill and who have difficulties, and also of the migrants who live outside the country, especially those who live in Venezuela. Those were exactly the three priorities I put in the investment speech, the three, Your Honor, by that order. Let's work anyway. We have no more interest, I can assure you, than right. And I hope that, as we are going to comment and dialogue, we will agree, and that, if we are talking about Galician problems, we will agree; if we are going to raise questions that address the majority, the freedom or the manner of being of the Greeks, we will probably disagree there. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. I listened to the speeches as carefully as I could and answered with the greatest concretion I could to each of the questions and the comments that you have raised me. It gives us the impression that many of us in this House — and I take it to thank you for your presence in the gallery — made a speech that you had already thought about, that they had already thought about it, had said what I had said on Tuesday, and that they had even thought about it before the elections regardless of the outcome. But that's a question that I can't in any case concrete, and I honestly think that's where we're going to go wrong. We have made concrete proposals, the truth is that we do. We're talking about a new employment law and we're putting in between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs. We're talking about if there's more measures that can make Galicia a better place for self-employed people, and we're putting them into practice: flat rate for a year longer than the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, this is of extraordinary economic importance, a flat rate for an autonomous, for a woman or for a man, a year longer than the rest of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about rural, of course we're talking about rural. And you tell me I talked about rural four years ago. Shouldn't a president of the Union talk about the countryside every time he has a chance to go to the Greeks? Is it true, ladies and gentlemen, today we can't say that the sales of bass fish and shellfish in Galicia have increased more than ever? Can't we say that when we get to the board, we lose 44% of our fishing quota and now we've increased 13% in the last few years? Can't we say, Your Honor, that we have projects in the dairy sector of marketing and processing that are all a hope for the country? We're talking about rehabilitation, rehabilitation of our villages. We're talking about the Law of Historical Helmets. We are talking about the future of public services, yes, public health, public education, public social services. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we're talking about chronicity, of course we're talking about home care, of course we're talking about building, ending the construction of a new Galician Health Service with the new hospitals that we're missing so that 100 percent of the Greeks can have a hospital next to them. We're talking about childhood and older people, because it starts all over there, in childhood and older people. We're talking about demography, and I appreciate the contributions of the spokesman for the Socialist Party of Galicia. Ladies and gentlemen, let us speak seriously and speak humbly. Are we in trouble? Of course. Most absolutes don't understand it as an excuse to present myself here having the absolute reason, in no case. I've said it and I repeat it: I'm wrong many times, I doubt many times, but I think sometimes we're right. And that's why I'm surprised to hear here some ideas that consist of not practically recalling anything in some subjects. But if most people doubt because they want to succeed, how is it possible that minorities do not even agree to discuss and the possibility of agreeing on many matters with the majority? Mr. Villares — you have finished — you said the other day that you cannot support good recipes about a bad diagnosis. It's true, he's right. Did we agree in the diagnosis that we won the elections and you lost them? We fully agreed. [[Laughter]] So what makes you think you're always right and we're always wrong? [[Murmurs.]] Is it true that the diagnosis we agree with can't lead to these conclusions? [[Laughter]] Because if not, it's like telling all the Greeks that they're wrong except those who voted for their group. And that, as you will understand, for a Democrat like you who defends the rule of law, because it can't be in any way, no matter how much they ask you to tell him. You can't say. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, you belong to a party that has a long history in the country. In fact, twenty-two years of government in Spain. So you belong to a party that has a very important past in our country. And I would like you to follow a party that has a very important future in our country, because I think it's good for the country. And in his speech, I realized that you want to bet on the future of your party and I think very well. Because the diagnosis he made of the economy is the most accurate diagnosis of all interventions, of course excluded that of Professor Puy, who spoke with data and you spoke with certain partisan approaches. Mr. Puy has brought data to the House, Your Honor, and unfortunately I think you agree with me that, if we lower 79,900 the number of people registered in unemployment, it's a good data; in that, if Galicia is the fourth autonomous community that has lowered unemployment, it's a good data; in that if we have an EPA of 16.3%, two long points under Spain, it's not a bad data. And, Mrs. Pontón, I understand they lost at least what was expected. No one disputes that. But what doesn't seem reasonable is that it means they won. Because, Mrs. Pontón, with all your cordiality, you know I'm very glad that you're a spokesperson for the BNG. But in the same way you have to admit that Galicia is not a nationalist. You know why? Because the Greeks have their own criteria, Your Honor, and the Greeks have never been nationalists... No, no... just look, even if it was just because we like to play well, no traps, we don't care about exclusive nationalism, we don't care about it, Mrs. Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, of course, I'm interested in a BNG spokesperson who is not exclusive to the majority group, because that was supposed to come up with agreements. As we arrive, Your Honor. Because I have to admit that the BNG supported the initial proposal in the boxes, I have to admit it. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for acknowledging that it was the People's Party that supported the BNG. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor, for seeing that there is no apriorism of any kind, Your Honor, no apriorism. [[Murmurs.]] If the BNG wants to bring proposals for the viability of public services, there will be a faithful follower here. [[Applause]] Look, ladies, I'm definitely done. Anyway, everybody here defends democracy, but there are some parties that are fighting people. They laugh at people and think that when people vote, people are wrong. Galicia is never wrong, and we have to force a thing to all of us who begin legislation: to respect Galicia's decisions. I respect Galicia, throughout Galicia, the Galician majority who voted for us, of course, but also the different minorities who voted for the rest of the political parties. Let's all do the same. We work together. Let us respect, ladies and gentlemen, the election results, as has been clear in the House today. For now, of course, the perception of the desire for cooperation, with greater or lesser intensity, is being perceived. I wish I wasn't wrong. Look, the important thing is not my future, for nothing. The important thing is not which of you leads the opposition. That's going to get angry. And the important thing I don't think is that I'm worried about whether the corresponding political forces they represent will lead. That's not important. The important thing is the country, the important thing is Galicia. The important thing is not to talk about us, to talk about the people who listen to us. And here we are for Galicia. I ask them not to forget it during this legislation. And that is why I am particularly grateful to the parliamentary group to whom I have the honour to belong, firstly, that had supported me all these years, and, I hope, their support during this afternoon. Here, in politics, neither the majority group nor minority or candidate groups have greater relevance, we're all passing through. What remains is the country. Let us think less of votes — the balance sheet, Mr Leicega, the balance sheet is already settled — we think less of votes and we think more of people. What matters, ladies and gentlemen, is not the candidate for the Presidency of the Union, what matters is not the Members and the Members who have been in the House for a while. [[Applause]] What matters, ladies and gentlemen, is Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u23	Thank you very much, candidate, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. We suspended the meeting until 5 p.m. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u24	Good afternoon, ladies. We resumed the session. It now corresponds to the replication of parliamentary groups for a period of ten minutes each, as set out in Article 136 of the Regulation. Before I proceed, I should like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure, after the debate, the vote will take effect, as I said, around 6.30 p.m., without prejudice to the effect of the sitting being forced to mark a new hour for the vote. The vote will be public, the first call will be made by alphabetical order, starting with the honourable Member whose name is drawn up, except for the members of the Government in office and those of the Bureau of the House, who will vote at the end. Your lordships will answer from the seat itself: yes, no or abstention. The candidate will be elected if he wins the votes of the absolute majority. This choice shall involve the approval of the Government programme, Article 136 of the Regulation. We are therefore now beginning with the replica of the parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor to speak to the spokesperson of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u25	Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mr. Feijó, I told you this morning and I want to repeat it, we will never enter the personal disqualification, nor the manipulation of the words that we do or that you do in this House. And I insist, I hope that you, as president of the Greeks and the Greeks, will begin to respect the opposition and assume that there are the Greeks and the Greeks that we don't think like you. I think that would be a step forward, and I hope, too, that in the next legislative process democracy will not continue to be suffocated with a parliamentary majority, which in relevant matters, on many occasions, has prevented us from being able to carry out our task of controlling the Executive. I have to tell you, too, that I'm sorry to bother you that we're talking about macho violence. We can talk about male violence, we can talk about gender-based violence... If you want to call it by name, we continue to propose that by law you recognize that this is a feminicide, because that's what's happening with women in this country. [[Applause]] And I don't understand that it bothers you, or that it bothers you in the morning, that we have made allusions that it doesn't seem normal to us that in the face of a matter that is affecting the lives of so many women to a fundamental right, such as being able to live without violence, we blame you that this did not deserve a specific paragraph in your intervention as a candidate for the president. But the most serious thing is, Mr. Feijóo, is that in his reply — I don't know if he did — he wasn't able to tell us a single measure that put in place his Government; because there are help to victims of gender violence, because in 2009 the Bipartite put in place a law that guarantees that such aid exists, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and because during these years — in recent years — his Government has complied with the laws, but it is clear that the laws do not serve, and the only step forward that took place in that matter was an initiative that proposed the Group of the BNG, precisely, to ensure that any woman who needs those help to break up with the circle of violence does not have to be months and months waiting. Therefore, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, we continue with the hand held by any group, any initiative, so that, indeed, there are solutions and alternatives, because it is evident that it is not enough what has been done to fight against gender-based violence, to fight against this feminicide. And we think that we need to review the framework and we need to put in place more measures, more resources and, above all, deadlines and targets. I'm sure that if you have a firm commitment to machismo, in your second intervention you'll take advantage to tell us that it puts an end to financing with public money centers that separate the student by his sex, because that's a apartheid that in the 21st century cannot exist, and much less, Mr. Feijóo, finance with public money inequality. I also recognized you in my first intervention that you are a great propagandist, and the slogan of "First Galicia", indeed, is a great slogan, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, what happens is that you have been losing eight years of opportunity to prove to us with facts that the first is Galicia. He spoke in his speech on a subject which is the clear example of how you at the time of truth betray the interests of this country and anticipate the interests of your party, or other not so clear interests. I'm going to give you an example, you talked to him about the box. Mr. Feijóo, of course we will come to an agreement, by the way, on a law that proposed the BNG, not on a law that proposed the Government to change the Law of Boxes, change its operation and shield the boxes to the service of this country. I don't know if you remember what you did. What you did was to paralyze the application of that law to shield the ex-directors of the boxes, who, by the way, took advantage of that extra time to shield those compensations, and eventually you carried out an operation which was the disappearance of this country's boxes and the disappearance of the Greek financial power. Other territories that you criticize because they have ambition and ambition, such as Euskadi or Catalonia, have maintained their financial system. You were an accomplice to the sale of Novagalicia Banca in an absolutely ruinous process. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, are you ready for us to investigate that sale? Or can you tell us what Galicia has won? How did you defend Galician interests in this case? Much better would we go to the Germans and the Greeks if you had any country ambition as they have in Euskadi or as they do in Catalonia. [[Applause]] He's also told us about funding, and I'm telling you here: it's a trick. I mean, you criticized us when it was who signed a funding pact with the ZP Government that we've already told you it was a bad business for Galicia, and now what you come here is to tell us that what you want to keep maintaining the same model, that you don't defend a model of your own for our country. You don't want full fiscal autonomy, you don't want your own Greek farm, you want to keep the current status quo, which allows you to say, precisely, Mr. Montoro, whether Galician health care should be cut in education or dependency law. From BNG we want to change that. To change the model of the dependency they have to hold their hand; to continue to keep this model, which is absolutely ruinous for this country, we, of course, will not collaborate. I am sorry to continue to minimize the problem of emigration. We're not talking about returning the third generation of children of people who emigrated from this country. We're talking about the Germans and the Greeks who left yesterday, who had to pick up their bags because there were no opportunities here, they had an opportunity to return. The official figures, which you like to name so much, say that in Galicia in the last legislation 100,000 people under the age of thirty-five have disappeared from the active population. Read the data, Mr. Núñez Feijóo: 100,000 boys and girls less in this country who had to leave because of lack of opportunity. Don't you think this is a serious problem for Galicia? If this doesn't seem like a serious problem for Galicia, you don't want to see what the reality of this country is. I'm surprised, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, your silence with AP-9. It's surprising that in the face of a matter that affects so many people in this country, the economy, the people, who put people's lives at risk — because there are many people who cannot afford the luxury of going through the AP-9 and have to go through much more insecure ways — when the government of the state gives Galicia a plan, you put yourself on a profile, as if that problem did not exist. Are you willing, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, as Galician militant, to defend that we put in place a great deal of agreement to put an end to that legal scam that calls for AP-9? I wait, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, your answer. He also spoke to us here — and this has already seemed to me to note — about the POLs and the DOTs, he told us here about the land management guidelines and the coastal management plan. Do you know what those documents are? Do you know what those documents say about Ence being out of Pontevedra? What are you going to defend, Mr. Feijóo?, the extension of that rule by Mr. Rajoy who says that Ence will continue to pollute the river Pontevedra, or will he defend his land management guidelines, in which he said they had to leave the river of Pontevedra? It would be good if I made it clear to you, to know how you understand what's called "Being a militant from Galicia." And look, about the tongue. I don't have much time. There's no problem with us, you can take it for granted. There's absolutely no problem. You take care of her every day and every day of her life. And if you really love our language so much, lift that ban that prevents mathematics, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, from being taught in English in Galicia. Raise the ban on the giving of mathematics in English.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u26	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u27	He also didn't answer a question that was very important: if there's no crisis, why are there cuts? I repeat it again: if there's no more crisis, why are there cuts? Do you want a pact for public services? We rescued public health, starting with Vigo's hospital. Let's get rid of the compensations for medicines that continue to pay a lot of families in this country. He rests all the professors and doctors he has cut off over these years and we really have funds for the Dependency Law. And look, in ten minutes it doesn't take time for everything, but you have to understand that we can't believe in your word, I told you in my first intervention. How are we going to believe he's telling the truth now when he claims he's going to create 100,000 jobs? What reason do we have to believe that? This is not a newspaper, this is official information from the Galician board: "Feijó says that, with the resolution of Galician wind competition, there will be the largest industrial plan in history, with an investment of 6 billion euros and 12,000 jobs." Where is this job, Mr. Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u29	"Ourense will host an electric vehicle factory that will create a thousand jobs." It was also an announcement from his Government. Where are these jobs you promised to create in Ourense, Mr. Feijóo? Why do we have to believe this now? What's changed? Really, Mr. Feijóo, after all that you have told us, of what we remember today, do you think we have any reason to believe in your word? What reason do we have to believe your word? Tell us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u31	It's over, Mr. President. We will certainly not support the People's Party candidate. I'm sorry, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, but you don't represent us. We're not going to abstain, because there's no reason for us to betray our program and the people who voted for us. Our vote is going to be negative, because we are not going to whiten out the corruption of the People's Party, neither lies, nor privatization, nor suffering, nor the pain of so many people.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u33	And I'm telling all the people who feel the sadness we're following here with the hand to build the Galician we want and dream about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Leiceaga.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u35	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. candidate, the truth is there are love that kills, Mr. Feijóo. I'm telling you about those kind words that you devoted to our party and myself. [[Laughter]] Finally, the fact is that the voters did not give you a chance — unfortunately for you — that we had to decide whether you were the president or not. In any case, he knows that for us to even have to decide whether to abstain, he would first have to have a failed investment. I don't know if you're willing to do that. [[Applause]] Anyway, you can always try, right? The truth is that the rhetoric of unity — we saw it yesterday with the future president of the United States, Donald Trump, in spite of such a divisible campaign, ultimately makes a call for the wounds to be closed and to return to unity — it makes it logical for those who aspire to rule for all the Greeks. What happens is that I think we have the obligation, as a party that we're going to be in opposition in this House, to see if there's something consistent behind this rhetoric or whether we just have an empty shell that when you open there's nothing inside, and we take a surprise. For that reason, the best place to check is this Parliament, as I told you in my speech. And there are many formulas. I proposed two parliamentary committees. One of them on autonomic financing — I know we have a match on that issue — You've changed your mind, and I think it's all right. The 2009 model was highly criticized, although later, finally, the Galician board voted in favour of that model when it was placed on the table, as you well know. But above all I hear in the last few days, in many places, the counsellor says — the function counselor — that his position, in fact, is that things don't move too much, that things follow as they are, because surely the results of this model are not as bad for Galicia as you proclaim. The model, among other things, already incorporates a consideration of dispersion and aging, an important consideration. The model already incorporates the progressivity. The only important element of your model is progressiveity, and that's it, that's it! There's a very important degree of support for communities with less resources. Can you go further? Of course. I'll tell you, it's not a challenge, but yes, let's say, hold your hand to go a little further. We all defend that Galicia's relative position in terms of non-retroduced per capita financing. Would that be an interesting challenge? Would it be a good challenge to defend each other? In any case, we constitute the commission and work together in that direction. The other commission I was telling you is that of the wind sector. You are an expert in using various figures, but I gave you that of megawatts installed as a result of your wind competition, your wind contest! How many megawatts are there, derived from their wind competition? Because it's been ruling for eight years, eight years!, it hasn't been for six months. So you have to be responsible and make a balance of your decisions. How many megawatts are installed derived from their wind competition, not from authorizations from other governments or authorizations from this Government but based on previous resolutions? That's what you have to tell me, and we'll check it out. We'll see where these things are later. In addition to the committees, there are plans in Parliament. You mentioned some, I think it's all right. We can discuss here, and I hope so, the transport, the autonomous, the plan for driving the Welsh people in the youth sector, and some others, the environmental strategies and for climate change, and these things. I hope that in this proposal to give the House a new role and that consensus prevails, that it will be able to move these plans to Parliament, that we can discuss them, that we can improve them and that they will ultimately be plans for everyone. And then, the formulation of positions on central themes, two or three. The AVE — the control and follow-up of the AVE. The AP-9, because there is a bill, addressed to the Congress of Deputies, which has been passed by all groups of the House and which is in a delicate position right now in its proceedings at the Congress of Deputies. Let's rescue her with everyone's effort and get her to go forward, as a first step, so we can then discuss what we do with the beaches. And there's another important question. Anyway, the revals, the ones we've talked about before. Of course, it's very good to say that we're not from the People's Party, that we're from Galicia, but then, at the very moment, I see that on this subject you're following the party's guidelines. When, in addition, what we hear around there — even from their ranks — is that they actually agree that this is not possible, that this system should be loaded, that we have to go back and that we have to take a while to think about it better. If that's the case, do it, still against your party, because they will be in favour of the Greeks. That's what it means to be a Galician militant, if we take the words seriously. And then, finally, I'm not going to discuss all the data because I don't have time, but if we're going to discuss one, just one. This is the graph that expresses the number of births in Galicia from 1990 to today. Mr. Fraga's home. Here, about, in 2004, we have where Mr. Fraga leaves him: 20,000 births. Here's Mr. Touriño's last year, 23.175; that's why I told him this morning it was not between 19,000 and 22,000, but it was 23.175 in Mr. Touriño's last year. And here it is, where you leave it for the moment, which is 19.412. Therefore, during the years of Touriño, continued rise; during the years of Feijóo, continued fall. And you say... No, wait, wait... does this have to do with the government? [[Applause]] Not entirely. Who can say that this is due only to the Government? But if the government has nothing to do with it, why do we make plans? If political action on this has no influence, why are we going to discuss demography in the House? We only discussed demography because this has an influence, because if it has no influence, what do we paint here? So we can't give every credit to the actions of the Government, it has to do with economic growth, job creation, all of these things, actually, but some credit must be given to it. Otherwise, let's forget about the plan, let's do nothing about it, let's do other things, because if you don't believe in the action derived from the demographic revitalization plans, we don't spend money on it. Quantification of commitments. It would be important. I know you're going to say, we're going to do this through the budgets. I heard yesterday that it was a great news that they were committed to bringing the 2017 budgets to the House quickly. Man, the strange thing would be they didn't, having most absolute as they have! But in any case — we can actually discuss it there — if the great features. Because I see that regaining the purchasing power of the officials, that's going to compromise, about, the exercise margin and half of these four. To reduce taxes, you said it would be more important than this legislation, do we compromise the margin of a budget exercise? And for everything else, which you've made repeated announcements like the legislation of the rural environment, which we're going to do, I don't know how many more things... it's going to be a very limited margin. So at least we should say something about the big numbers, right? For example, in taxes you cited a reference to taxes in rural areas. Is there anything else? It would be nice to know what we're talking about, because only on the basis of the realization can we evaluate even your proposal. Because maybe we agree and maybe not, it'll depend on how they do it. And the commitment to Galicia, the truth is it's summed up in several things. It's summed up in a commitment to language. It's all about a commitment to culture. It's a commitment to self-government. Because you said yesterday: it's Parliament, language, land, culture... Parliament, in fact, also has to do with self-government, with the content of self-government. Man, Mr. Puy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u36	It's going to end, by the way.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u37	... Professor Puy, almost if he goes my head, would say successor Puy, after the good that was received his speech by the popular bench... but no, no, it's just that he left my head. [[Applause]] Professor Puy made a good intervention saying, "Home!, if in the end the self-government and the AP-9... what are we talking about? No, but the self-government, you know, it's traffic, it's the police, it's the Labour Inspectorate, it's the management of the coast... They're a lot of other things that are pending, not as important as what we've had, but they have their weight. So, if we're serious about all this at some point, Mr. Núñez Feijóo said he agreed and defended that they had come to Galicia. For it is time that, in addition to agreeing, as it has great influence in Spain, the People's Party can say yes and we can complete our self-government and be up to other autonomous communities. We in self-government actually talk about the welfare of citizens, we talk about intervening in the economy to make the industrial sector more powerful, we talk about the primary sectors. We have a civil conception of self-government, it's not purely identity, but identity is also important, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, and you should...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u39	...to be in favour of that. Again, our position has not changed; let's say not to your investment. But, as I told you this morning, we are willing to hold hands on many subjects, to collaborate on others and to oppose us when necessary. We are willing to be a serious, constructive and loyal opposition to work in favour of Galician citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u40	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u41	With the coming, Mr. President. From the responses given by the popular candidate we continue to miss many who could clarify how we could improve the government and the situation of our country and citizenship, of our people, because that is the mandate we all have here. To begin with, in relation to self-government, we said and continued to miss a greater commitment... a greater commitment no, a commitment by the popular candidate to self-government and a defence, of course, of the expansion of competences and the full development of the Autonomy Statute. And secondly, related to this, all the transfers that are possible under Article 150 of the Constitution, which have not yet been transferred, some of which we have already exposed before, of which we have not received a response of any kind, and, as we have said, we feel absolutely insufficient, very little ambitious, not to say completely uninterested with the country, the fact that we do not want to continue with the transfers, to the extent that we may think that this means having more self-management capacity, more self-government capacity. If the president of the country is not concerned about having a greater capacity for self-government, we don't know what kind of president for a country this is. With regard to that, because it's not a minor information and it's not a minor position, we continue to demand a clear position on autonomic financing as well. I think of the people, of the groups that we were represented here, our morning was quite clear; theirs, not so much. Vaguities that, in addition, have come true that over the past four years, where the new financing system could have been negotiated and while you had your government friend in Madrid, they haven't done anything to take a step forward in that direction. So a waste of time and a waste of opportunity that we won't know whether or not to repeat. As far as the committees of inquiry are concerned, we are celebrating — as we said the other day — the opening of the case or the fact that it is now appropriate to investigate the matter of the boxes. Since they will open the boxes, they should also open the drawers; they should open them and put them on the table — see if this time — all the documentation that the Board of Trustees had when it authorized the merger of the boxes and which was not previously known by this whole Parliament. It would be a good occasion and a good exercise of transparency. Maybe they're late, probably, because the policy of saving the Greeks and the Greeks will not be able to be recovered with that commission, but at least the satisfaction and relief of truth, which is always important. Another of the issues dealt with this morning and what you also referred to in the reply was the subject of debt. Galicia is one of the autonomous communities that spends the most public on its payment, with which social spending is reduced in relation to the rest of the budget. Did you meet the deficit, but did you meet the social cost? Not at all. Now spending is 16% of GDP of public expenditure and before it was 3.4%. In any case, we've already told him, on other occasions, about our own economic policy, the problem is no longer just the expense, the problem, especially the income. We need taxes to finance public spending and taxes that must be sought where there is wealth and not in different places. That's why linear tax reductions seem unfair to us; so denying progressiveity seems unfair to us; so that everyone pays equally unfair to us, because not everyone has the same possibilities and not everyone has the same opportunities; so we want a tax system that is also progressive. He also spoke briefly of defending — then, in the past — the jobs of Cee and Dumbria. We'd like you to go up here and acquire your commitment to Ferroatlantics, your workers and workers, not to authorize the group's torn-off sale, not to authorize the sale of hydroelectrics, not to authorize the sale of an investment fund to speculate with our own water and resources. And, in that case, in case it is intended to be done, it rescues the concession for the public, because we can do it, and we can still do a more efficient management than the one produced from a private point of view, among other things, because the benefit that companies privatized with the concession could directly lead to it by the public era. With regard to Greek, you would be very happy — we suppose, with regard to the reasoning you have made — that Greek became, like Latin in seminars, a dead language that knew all the priests but nobody spoke. That's not your role in terms of language, and it's neither statutory nor legally because the Statute of Autonomy of Galicia and the Law of Linguistic Standardization compels you as president, the whole House and the Greek Government to promote the use of Greek; not only to guarantee knowledge, but to begin with, and secondly, to banish the prejudices that exist against it. Something he did not do during these last legislates, during the two legislates in which you led the Government; rather, he sent counter signals from the point of view of the Executive and the Legislative, denying the linguistic normality of which he continues to be excluded from our language in many areas of public character. Of sins you talked about, not me, I had to start talking about sins because that's what you said in an instant here. He said the sins committed in these walls were spying on the polls. We keep thinking no. There are sins that do not spy because they continue there. There may be 41 Members, but unemployment follows, the exclusion follows there, the health deficit follows there, the depreciation and precariousness of education remain there, the lack of opportunities remains there, and the demographic decline follows there. [[Applause]] He talked about industrial projects as if he were on an election campaign, repeating that announcement he had made in Curtis. What's your proposal about the dairy sector, expect companies from outside to come without the board taking any action at all? Or is it, on the contrary, the bet, as you did with Milk Food, leaving 20 million debt and 8.5 million lost public money with broken companies? Is that your bet on the dairy sector? There are mistakes or lies, I don't know very well, as it is the first time we have a debate about you and me... well, it's the second time, but in Parliament, the first time. I'll misjudge you what I think is a lie, and here, of course, from this rostrum, I didn't say you'd be reduced to health care and 11,000 teachers — you can review the records, if you want. I spoke of health care, 1,800 professionals and teachers, 2,300. The question remains the same: did you consider that there was a lack of professionals before? They were left before or missing now, because both things at one time cannot be and the needs of the population remain the same. So, were they overcrowding before or are they missing now? Our opinion is clear, they're missing now, they didn't stay long. He's still wrong or he's still lying — second if he's seen — on the subject of extra pay. The extra payment — the employee's sacrifice, of course — was a real confiscation, was an expropriation of the employees' wages, but not to pay the public services, but to rescue the banks. That's the lie, of course it's the lie! Of course it's the lie! [[Applause]] There are the figures and there are the money to see, the money that was sent to the rescue and the money that was sent to save the public services; they're about to see. In addition, with regard to the salaries of officials and the extra pay, the Government also set up traps; traps that the courts themselves declared should have returned their own extra pay because it had been cheated by the legal regulation of it. With the wind? It has already been commented here, but — data from the Spanish Electric Network— power installed in Galicia in 2009, 3,208 megawatts; in 2015, 3,362 megawatts; differential, 154 megawatts, which, of course, are attributable to the previous wind competition, and those of the wind competition, zero. Error or lie? Everyone you choose. You talked about defendants also asking about judicial proceedings, and you appealed, in addition, to the judicial issue, to the subject of the judges, to the question of the judges and magistrates, and you were talking about it in this House. Well, that's why we have to differentiate areas. We have to differentiate the legal framework from the political sphere. In the judicial field, of course, criminal conviction is the one that marks disability, but political responsibility is required at the headquarters of political responsibility, which is the House, which is the Parliament of Galicia. That's why we came here and talked about political responsibilities; not judicial, but political. For example, it may even happen that, when the time comes, his partner Baltar, in Ourense, comes out acquitted of those accusations that were made to him on sexual scandals. Yes, it could go out criminally; now, from the point of view of political ethics, from the point of view of the principle of equality—that equality against the machoism you spoke about from this forum—the logical, the ethical, the decent one would be to ask that person to cease. That would be logical! [[Applause]] If you don't, the time has come for justice to do what you have to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u42	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u43	I'm going to finish. "Anton was right, he doesn't give time for everything." I keep wondering what you don't like about the cities of change. Don't you like cases of corruption? Oh, no, it's just that Count Roa was from PP. You don't like Swords either? He was also from the PP! He won't like us talking about Pokémon either, but, of course, they were also about PP. But, well, are they associated with the cities of change? No, it was the cities of prechange, that's why change came, because people wanted to wipe out corruption from institutions, and so they did and so they'll keep doing it, because people, once they get used to dignity, don't want to go back. [[Applause]] What bothers you about the cities of change?, what are the bills without approval since 2014? In the city of Ourense change means, doesn't it? Or are the concierge and concierge there? Oh, that was in Ourense too, which is another city of change. I'm going to finish, Mr. President. What makes them nervous, what makes them nervous, is that we show by the practice that little by little it is possible to do much and that with public management, with good public management, if you live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u44	Thank you, Mr. Villares. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u45	Let me, before I reiterate our support for the candidate in the next vote, which contrasts some of the statements we have just heard throughout today. First, Parliament. It was said here that Parliament was not working, that the Government could not be controlled. I have the exact figures: in the past legislation there were 1,778 presences in commission to answer questions from the Government. If we add the presences of the Government in full and in commission, it gives that the Government has been in this Chamber 1.84 times every day of the legislation, including Saturdays and Sundays. The government can be controlled, another thing is its ability to control it or to want to control things that don't exist, which sometimes also happens; therefore, this House controls the government. [[Applause]] And if you don't have the ability to prove things that don't exist, I'm not surprised either, because what doesn't exist cannot be demonstrated. I also want to make it very clear that the People's Party's commitment to violence against men. In the last plenary session of this legislation, Mrs. Pontón, we passed a law favoring the collection and assistance of women abused in Galicia. It was a bill that introduced a colleague of his group — who is not here today, by the way. It was adopted with a vote in favour of the People's Party, its group and the AGE Group, and it had the Socialist Party's abstention. That was the last vote we had in this House in the past legislation. But I would also like to remind you — because sometimes you forget — that perhaps one of the most important milestones in the fight against violence against men was when the People's Party, in the Spanish Government, passed the protection orders, which allowed the victims of the violence to be removed immediately from those who were infringing their harm. So, commitment to against macho violence, everything. [[Applause]] Another point which is worth clarifying, since it is also an initiative signed by Members of my group, is the subject of the Committee on Cashews. We ask that the work of this commission be completed precisely because there is nothing to hide. We support the constitution of the committee. I want to remember that the work plan was adopted unanimously by the four groups that existed in the House in the past legislation. I would like to recall that there were forty, almost fifty, appearances — among them some very outstanding — that we would certainly not have asked them today — like the governor of the Bank of Spain — in writing, some state secretary, of course the president of the Board, the councillor, the former councillor and the general directors who, by the Government of the United States, had led the financial policy. I want to remember that Junta was the only one who sent material, because all the information requested from Junta was provided, not so to the FROP or the Banco de España that they said this was a state control competition and therefore we were not provided with information. Still, there is enough material to come to a conclusion; a conclusion that will be enriched with the development of what has happened in recent times: we were investigating a question that was the millionaire compensations — which you know were under trial — and the comparators benefited from these compensations, refused to declare. Today they declared before the judge, we rejoice that the judge had handed down a sentence and even shared the Supreme Court's opinion that that sentence was short, but the fact is that with those judgments we can enrich the knowledge of what happened in the Committee on Boxes. Today, the Socialist Group and the Galician Nationalist Group have, of course, registered another request from the Commission for the investigation of savings banks. My attention is drawn to me, because it turns out that the only ones that in some way have been consistent on this issue over time were those of the People's Party — I remember — and when the Block introduced the law to amend the Law of Boxes, it had the support of the People's Group; the Socialist Group, as you will remember, said that this was a PP assault, which put their hands on the savings of the Greeks. You'll remember that because we were jointly criticized by the two groups. When the merger comes, there the PSOE says that that was the fusion they wanted because Mr. Gaius followed, by the way, it was the fusion they wanted. Mr. Abel Caballero said that at last he made him give in and we had the fusion Galicia needed, and it was you who voted against because he followed Mr. Gaius. If you can't follow Mr. Gayoso, then those boxes were one in Bankia and the other you don't even know. But we'd be in Bankia, that's what you, in fact, would have provoked if that merger had not been approved at that time. So there we agreed on the PSOE and the People's Party, and the Block was against it. And, finally, it seems now that those who are in favour of a commission—not well known for what—are the Bloc and the Socialist Party. There will be commission, conclusions and Galicia will know exactly what happened. AP-9. AP-9, obviously is an important transfer. We support that law and we want it to be passed in Madrid and to pass that law. Professor Leicega, allow me to call him a professor, Leicega, and to tell him colloquially — that we are friends — that I do not aspire to be successor to anything or anyone, even I do not aspire to be successor to myself within several years as a spokesman for the Socialist Group, do what I say to him. I don't aspire to be a successor of anything. But when I say this, what I mean is that we trust Madrid to be through the AP-9 Law. You and I both had an experience — which we remember, which was not too good — when the transfer of traffic police was requested from this Parliament — also unanimously. It was rejected in Madrid, my group abstained, its group voted against and only voted in favour of nationalists; and all this must, too, make them think about the extent of the ability of an autonomous Parliament to bring a law which must be passed by definition and by mandatory mandate of the autonomous Parliament to a House, to the courts which reflect and take up its general line. That doesn't mean, of course, that we don't keep asking AP-9, do we? But I think that this reflection is good, because many things were rejected in the courts, the Ibarretxe Plan was rejected, many measures were rejected which the courts considered unnecessary. Skills. In some of those mentioned, they can count on the support of the People's Party, they don't have the slightest doubt, in others I don't think. The theme of the Prestige, which came out several times, the subject of maritime safety. I believe that if something has learned Galicia from the Prestige and the Prestige catastrophe, there is no country — and much less the size of Galicia, not even the size of Spain — that can face a misfortune like that of the Prestige; the collaboration of all the countries of the European Union is necessary. Fortunately, in this we have done something, to me, I would like to have made more progress, especially in matters of maritime safety and in the legislation on the use of double-hunt ships, the European Union in this is not as bold as the United States, but the issue of maritime security is a competition that has to give it a double thought. We, in principle, after our experience, may think that it's not the right thing to be here. Mr. Villares, public debt. The autonomous community that least increased its debt — the candidate told him this morning — was Galicia. Galicia is now among the least indebted communities in Spain and, in 2008, we were one of the most indebted. We would have 3 billion more debt if the Greek debt had evolved as much as the rest of the state's debt and, in addition, thanks to the decision taken by the Government of the People's Party, there is a fund of financial ease that now allows us, without any kind of control or intervention by the State, to have zero funding, which is releasing — on the other day, vice-president 65 million euros in the next year's budget — resources that do not pay the interest of debt, but can be devoted to social policies. Certainly, as the President said, we would be much more indebted if we had approved his amendments to issue more debts in previous years. He owes that, by the way, according to his amendments, it was for current expenditure. Well, current and non-investment expenditure. You've actually been trying to blow and sorp, and you can't blow and sorp, the normal thing that happens when you try to sorp and blow is that you end up dirty and on this subject, the truth is, you always come out and you have to recognize that it's incoherent, absolutely, your posture. As far as income is concerned, I want to remind you that in Galicia we have a wealth tax. It's the most progressive instrument the Autonomous Community has, along with the IRPF, which has a more progressive tariff than the State, too. We have a wealth tax with a progressive tariff that's allowing people who have the most in Galicia, the great fortunes, among them some very prominent, to contribute to alleviating the crisis. You said this morning, you made a reference that drew attention to me saying that the new Brotherhood of Speech are the circles of tides. I was frankly surprised to recall the old Villar Ponte, Galician Nationalism (points for a book). Our regional assertion, of its success, is responsible for the implementation of the Brotherhood of Fala — as we know 100 years ago at the headquarters of the Royal Academy in the city of Coruña — where it said that the language is "the shield of spiritual autonomy, stronger than the weapons, the very life of the peoples, a natural result of the environment, of inheritance, of selection". In short, therefore, an epitome of nationality, the instrument of action itself. And what about Vilar Ponte, exactly? Who's Vilar Ponte going to? It is addressed to all good Greeks, whether right or left, for it is not now "ideological issues capable of polarizing into hateful flags generating sterile passions." In the philosophy of the Brotherhood of Speech...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u46	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u47	...with regard to language, you can count on the People's Party, that was the message that gave the candidate this morning and that we continue to maintain. Obviously, the spirit of the Brotherhood of Speech, so one sees by the press, does not much resemble what is in the tide circles, because when one reads that my former deputy spokesman had with me an ungrateful, insolent and disloyal behavior or a member of the tide circles says that the tide coalition is a loathsome stepfather, for one gives the impression that it is not exactly the spirit of the Brotherhood that prevailed in the Brotherhood of Speech but... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u48	End, Mr. Puy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u49	...I wish you luck and I wish you luckier than your predecessor in charge. What is very interesting is this disquisition that makes me, which would be of high legal standing, about what is the judicial field and the political sphere, because you're politically condemning someone who only in the judicial field can know if he's responsible for something that generates political responsibility and that's in a judge... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u50	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u51	...is particularly striking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u52	Finish it, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u53	...to say that what the democratic law says in the political sphere, not only is it not necessary to do so, but there is a plus of punishment for being one in politics. Look, the first thing we have to do is respect ourselves, and before we respect ourselves, we have to respect ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u54	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Puy. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u55	And a judge can't say that they're seeing contracts with friends in court and not going to the prosecution and getting to know about those contracts with friends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u56	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Finish, please. You're done, please. No, look, look at the clock. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u57	Let's see if we all respect each other. Ladies and gentlemen, the president this morning...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u58	He concludes, makes the last statement and concludes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u59	Let's go to the task that we have ahead: employment, growth, maintaining the state of well-being, helping from the public to those who need it most, consolidating self-government, demography, are too imposing only for a majority, even as solid and as broad as that of the People's Party. We have invited them, we thank the proposal, whether with love or without love, which made us the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, but working for Galicia we will find ourselves if you want to contribute now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u60	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Puy. Duplicate of the candidate. Mr. Nuñez Feijóo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we started the second round of replicas — I believe last — I reiterate my gratitude for the tone of this session, both in the morning and in the afternoon, and I wanted to answer or try to concreteize some of the issues that you reflected this afternoon. You say, Mrs. Pontón, we do not respect the opposition. I can assure you that yes, that we respect the opposition very much, among other things because we were in the opposition after winning the elections, we know that it's very important to the opposition. We know it's very important to have 37 seats, which is the absolute majority minus 1 and to be in opposition for four years. We knew we were in the opposition even when we won, Your Honor, you were never in the opposition winning, never, never, not, not, not. [[Applause]] I don't know any council, no deputy, no autonomous community where you were in the opposition after you won, never. Never, ladies. Never, ladies. That's why this parliamentary group knows very well what it's like to be in the opposition. From 2005 to 2009, we were in the opposition by winning the elections cleanly, just that we didn't have the absolute majority of the House and, therefore, about the opposition, I think we're giving lessons on what it's like to be in the opposition or to respect the opposition, probably not. See if I know what it's like to be in the opposition that for four years I was the leader of the opposition and I could only ask the president a question, two questions a month, exactly the same as you can do with seven seats or six. See if I know what it's like to respect the opposition. That's why I had no doubt, Your Honor, that we will continue to respect the opposition, of course, because we are democrats and because democracy is here today and because we know that the votes of the Greeks are all the same, and the votes of the BNG well deserve representation by the opposition and well deserve, too, respect by the Government. I did not intend to open a debate on the terms of male violence, in any case, I believe that we agree on the fundamental point. What you're saying, less, is that we haven't done anything, and all we've done is repeat your measures and yet repeating your measures, everything's wrong. I suppose, Your Honor, that your measurements wouldn't be so good when it turns out, if all we did was do the same thing as you, it's all going so bad. Look, Your Honor, first of all, to do what you promised and never did, it's the first thing we did, Your Honor, that is to put in place the whole center of victims of macho violence, 2,000 million euros more budgeted had the Bipartite that we, they didn't even have time to open the center of full recovery of victims. Look, Your Honor, we've done things that you've never done, for example, that the Autonomic Police, for the first time in their history, are dedicated to protecting the victims from macho violence, because when you were, the Autonomic Police didn't have those commitments, neither is that the fundamental objective, yes, a concrete objective for the Autonomic Police. I know, Your Honor, that the Autonomic Police didn't depend on the nationalists in that government. Thirdly, what we did, nothing more and nothing less, was to promote new measures and new actions starting with the principle, education, and equality is a content that is available to the most children, minors, just for what? to reject from the beginning that maleistic violence. And finally, continue to put measures into the next legislation, for example the training of civil servants in the field of equality or, for example, a victim care protocol with a single reference professional. Therefore, ladies, of course we are concerned about the victims of macho violence, of course, yes, but at last... Look, Your Honor, you say you don't have to give us permission to speak English. Of course, you gave the Greeks permission to speak our language would be surprising. They don't have to give us permission to complain either to feel it or to make it their own. I'm telling you, we don't have any drawbacks to talk about whatever you want. So far we could get here, of course we could. Your Honor, you tell me if we're going to respect the decision of the parents and mothers to send their children and their children to schools that are divided according to the classes. Your Honor, you have funded them every year of your government, all of them and each of them. Who do you want to fool, Your Honor? Each and every one of them financed the years of his government; they financed the parents and mothers who send their children and their children to schools that separate in the classrooms. And the question is, do you think that mother doesn't deserve respect? Do you think that father doesn't deserve respect? Do you think here you have to think as you say, each and every mother and mother of Galician parents? You're very wrong, Your Honor. We will continue to defend freedom in Galicia because freedom is a constitutional right that has taken us a long time. So, Your Honor, think of what we're going to do. [[Applause]] They want to talk again about the Savings Box Commission. Welcome and welcome, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u63	The first thing we did was to put the Committee on Boxes back in the debate. This parliamentary group is gone! What do we have to do more than feel proud that, with the few means we have, there is still a financial entity domiciled in Galicia, with its headquarters in Galicia, which maintains its services in Galicia, which keeps offices open in Galicia, which keeps García Barbon and the Coruña Cantons with people? But can you ask a more self-government than we did? Can you ask us more than we did, Your Honor? It's just ignoring the situation. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, it says we shield the former box managers. Whoever shielded the former box managers was the Bipartite, modifying the laws so that some executive could continue as a Box manager. Exactly with your vote, Mrs. Pontón, which was in the Chamber. Your Honor, but you don't care what you say, if the important thing is what the Journal of Sessions says! [[Murmurs.]] Look, I signed a letter to the Governor of the Banco de España asking him to leave the clauses — in my abusive opinion — to increase the remuneration of the directors. I'm still waiting for your answer, Your Honor. So you were supporting the Socialist Party's government. I sent a letter to the governor of the Banco de España when I realized that a box that was being intervened could in no way increase the salaries of the directors — as President of the Board — in any case. That governor of the Banco de España hasn't answered that mission yet. On the contrary, they had to come to the courts to leave it void. Ladies and gentlemen, you rule in many municipalities as long as you can, as long as the PP doesn't have the absolute majority — you stick to anything — you rule with those parties who pull out in the street to defend those former directors that you are currently criticizing. Yes, Your Honor, the hemerothecs are full. The hemerothecs are full! You were ruling in Vigo with that party. That's why, Your Honor, I'm surprised you're talking about boxes. Let us speak what we consider appropriate. The first thing I did was not accept discriminatory treatment for Galicia, as they were giving to the boxes of Catalonia, the boxes of Andalusia and the boxes of other autonomous communities. You say Catalonia kept the boxes. What boxes? He says Catalonia kept the box. The only box that was solvent, La Caixa, because Unnim and Cataluña Caixa broke, Your Honor, and they were bought by other financial entities. When I realized that this would again be asymmetric, i.e., that the autonomous communities that interested the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party would still have boxes because they were going to be cured, automatically... —We will talk about Bankia and some Bankia representative who seems to be participating in Podemos.—I mean, Your Honor, that... Don't laugh, ladies, if you're absolutely up to date. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's absolutely up to date! [[Laughter]] I think you're even very much in favour of people who, thanks to their parents working on the black card in Bankia, could buy apartments for their children, ladies. [[Murmurs.]] Don't forget it's absolutely up-to-date, ladies and gentlemen, absolutely up-to-date! [[Applause]] Yes, Your Honor, if you're going to clean up the Catalan boxes, you have to clean up the Greek boxes. First requirement, and we get it. The second, we have to secure the warehouses of the Greeks, and we've got it. And third, we're going to be the first autonomous community to start the return of the preferences that came out when the Bipartite was in the Government. And so did we. Yes, Mrs. Pontón, I understand that reality is sometimes very hard, but not by omitting reality, it's good to live in intellect. The box one I know very well, Your Honor. I was just against everyone. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] I remember the Socialist Party when he said to me: No, no, if what we have to do is put Galician Box in Bankia; and New Box, as a small one, can go with Cajastur, Murcia Box or Nostrum Sea. That was the Socialist Party's proposal, and when he voted against the Socialist Party. Mr. Leicega, I do not include you in this mistake of the Socialist Party, because I know that you have maintained a different position, but it is the Socialist Members who are on the stand. I see there is one of the alludes who understands the message. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you for recognizing him, Mr. Losada. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Therefore, Your Honor, what we have done with the boxes I submit to the consideration of the Greeks. I've already submitted it in 2012, and now in 2016. I am proud of what we did against the Central Government and against the Banco de España, this group of Members and the BNG at first, which also supported it. Now we can say we don't know what's going to happen in the future. I don't know, what we can say is that Galicia is the only autonomous community in all of Spain that continues to maintain a financial entity domiciled in the autonomous community, which comes to be the heir to the old savings boxes. I repeat, Mrs. Pontón, it is done in the literality of the sentence. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo: Yes, yes.]] Look, I'm not in any case minimizing emigration, i.e., the departure of Thursdays from Galicia. No, not at all. What I did say is that Galicia is one of the autonomous communities where fewer young people have left the country to other places in Spain or to other places in Europe or America. And what I did say is that during the period when I was president, the number of people who came in was more than 17,000 people who came out. Even though emigration... that is, from the point of view of immigration, immigrants fled Spain as a result of Spain having six million unemployed. And so thousands and thousands of Uruguayans, Ecuadorians, Colombians or Argentines left Spain because Spain couldn't feed them, Your Honor. Well, despite that, despite taking the worst moment of the departure of immigrants from Galicia and Spain, the grandson between those who went out and those who entered is positive in +17,000 people. But of course I'm worried about those doctors who have finished their training and are working elsewhere, or those nurses or those architects or those engineers. I'm particularly concerned about those who have gone against their will; I'm not concerned about those who have wanted to go to increase their experience and their studies, which I'm convinced there are them too. That is why we are putting forward proposals on this issue, and it would be good at least to analyse them and at least to establish whether there is any possibility of agreeing. Look, Your Honor, you tell me I lift the ban on math not being given in English. It's as if there's someone who says to me, lift the ban on why Middle Knowledge can't be given in Spanish. Yes, Your Honor, yes. We were left with 50% of the subjects in Spanish and 50% in German. We strictly comply with all judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and with the judgement of the Supreme Court; each and every. It is the most judicially guaranteed decree of all we approve, Your Honor. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Pontón, that you had finished your speech saying that what goes out of this House as President of the Board does not represent them. It's a way I don't share democracy. Don't you have any doubt that I won't take those words as an insult. I believe that the words spoken in this House saying that "what this Parliament votes to, to me, does not represent me," in all respects, I think it does more harm to you than to me. In any case, Your Honor, I'm going to try to represent a lot of voters from the Galician Nationalist Block. It's true that every four years they're less, but I'm going to keep trying to represent all voters of the Nationalist Block of Galicia. Have no doubt about it, Your Honor, because I think it's what needs to be done and, of course, I'm going to do it. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega, I have no interest — believe me — in declaring you no preference, and there are love that kills, it is true. Like I'd say, "Solitary isn't alone, loneliness is that I want you and you think about someone else." That's why, Mr. Leicega, there's no problem with that relationship. [[Laughter]] You and I have known each other for a long time, respected as a member of parliament, I think you have maintained a very dignified position during the time you've been a spokesman for this House at other times, and I think that you, in addition, have been from Parliament, I suppose by coherence - I don't know - and tell me that, for example, in the boxes you didn't agree with the Madrid imposition of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. He disagreed. And I appreciate it. Now, if you mind me saying this, if you want, change your tone. Don't bother, we agree. So you say we haven't had a chance to decide who you'd support, if we didn't have an absolute majority. Because in the first place, if we didn't get that majority, the question is who would support you. I believed, Mr. Leicega, that you were presenting yourself to support yourself. Here it is, Galicia. I thought you were presenting yourself to be the second force. But at last, I don't know. In any case, if we do politics-fiction, the question is: if you are not a second force, who would you support? That's a good question. I know what you're doing in Coruña, Ferrol and Santiago: support the Tides. In the Coruña they didn't win, and they supported them, in Ferrol they didn't just win, but we missed two for the most absolute majority, and they were the mayor of the Tide. Now it turns out they've been fighting the Tides and the Socialist Party at Ferrol say that the Tides are non-democratic people. Of course, I don't know all this, but, as you can imagine, we read it every day. So I don't know what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party would do if the Galician People's Party had missed a seat for the absolute majority, but I'm afraid, Your Honor, what they could do. In any case, what's more! if it didn't happen anymore. So, Mr Leicega, when you believe that a Member in this House says sensible things, just like when you think the President says sensible things, because we are going to agree. There's no problem, of course not. You defend the current funding system. BNG says it's an outrage, and the Tides too. "In Marea, I'm sorry; it's just, like there are so many names... "I'm sorry, Mr. Villares." [[Mr. Villares Naveira: In Marea.]] Right, that the result is not a bad system. The spokesperson for the BNG looked at what he said in the two speeches, and Mr. de En Marea also looked at what he said. You probably know more about funding than other spokespersons, among other things because you've studied the system properly. And the truth and the truth, Your Honor, is that there are things you said in which I agree with you. But you will remember perfectly that this funding system has been agreed upon by those who are now in the Government of Catalonia, the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Catalonia Initiative... —Yes, yes; yes, Your Honor, you know it just as I do —...and the Socialist Party of Catalonia. And they agreed with a Welsh minister, born in Ourense — the quota of the Greek Socialist Party — and then to us they warned us and told us: if you don't sign, we're still going to remove your budget as a result of this system giving a little more budget in certain parameters. The truth is, it wasn't very friendly about whether or not we signed. But it's true that some of the things that you reflect in the funding system are things that are right to keep them. We agree. Mr. Leicega, I want to apologize for my initial intervention this morning when I said there were 978 megawatts installed. No, there are 978 megawatts authorized, and I apologize. If I want to tell you, Your Honor, there are 1 billion industrial plans disbursed and 2,100 jobs. I'm saying that because the BNG voicer was talking to me about work here. Home, for work, BNG's windmill. For employment I suppose some; of course, of the Greeks, no. [[Applause]] And for commitments, Your Honor, for commitments to Galicia, I remind you that we raise, thanks to the wind cannon, 160 million euros. For you, who believe in environmental taxes, it's not a minor issue, because when you were ruling you didn't put a euro for the windmills. It is also true that we, for some years we have ruled, have not asked the windists for anything either. But when we got to the government in 2009, we put on a wind canon that's 50% divided between the municipalities and the Galician Union, and we picked up 160 million euros. So, Your Honor, who defends the country?, who is Galician militant from the point of view of the electricity sector?, who is Galician militant from the wind point of view, who we collect and ask companies to pay for wind in Galicia or those who look elsewhere and ask them nothing? Your Honor, I think it's worth a lot of stressing what we've done, because if we don't put it... they've been denounced to the courts. You know they turned the cannon and we won the cannon in the courts. Therefore, we reiterate again: where did the wind farms increase in Spain? Wind farms do not increase in Spain as a result of the loss of wind power subsidies. The electricians begin to see that it's not a round business as before and therefore they only build wind farms that are profitable at the price of the pool as if they're paying the energy at that time. That, the more the result of the economic crisis, the more the result of the decline in electricity consumption, the more the result of thousands and thousands of megawatts installed — a nonsense — photovoltaics and thermopolars, makes Spain have an installed power of double the daily consumption. Automatically, Your Honor, you couldn't keep installing wind farms without subsidy. And we're not going to subsidize wind farms that are a big business, but we're, however, funded by the taxes of the Greeks and the rest of the Spaniards. Your Honor, that's the proposal and you know it well. There are people who laugh just because they don't know exactly what we're talking about, but that's their problem, Your Honor. Look, Your Honor, about the demographic theme you're picking up my chart. This is the chart, Your Honor. It's so clear the graph... look at the collapse, Your Honor. I've been studying high school these years. Look at the crash, look at the crash, Your Honor. Then tell me no, that in 2008 a government where socialists were increased the number of births. And it's true, it's true, and I congratulate you, Your Honor. But, well, you guys in 2007 were here, and they were 21,000; and I was here in 2009 and we already had 22,500. In 2006, they were here and they were 21,300, and I was here in 2010, and there were 22,047. So the problem is the last year, where we went down from 20,000. Look, Your Honor, under that criterion, what the population policies best understood was Francisco Franco, Your Honor. Because they look at those who were born when Franco ruled: 43,000 in 1975, 44,000 in 1976. [[Laughter]] Look, Your Honor, in reaching these absurd conclusions I suppose you won't agree. [[Murmurs.]] So don't blame the government, because otherwise we came to the conclusion that the best government from the point of view of demography was the government where there were no freedoms. What a fool that lordship is! How can it be said that the blame is for this government, and that it turns out that because in a year it increased a coefficient it turned out to be the best! Look, Your Honor, demography in Galicia is a structural problem, and in fact we have no good news on that matter. Why? You know him well, so I'm surprised he goes on with this subject of demography. The aging of the population also affects, of course, women. And it affects women of childbearing age. Now we have fewer women of fertile age than before and every time we have less. So that is the problem, Your Honor, and there will be debate on it, that is the problem. It's not the problem of if I used to rule one and for a year it was good and now, that I rule the other, for two it was bad. And if you want to talk about demography, let's talk about demography across the country, from Spain, yes. Look, Your Honor, in 2009 the births in Spain decreased by 5% and in Galicia by 2.8%. In 2010, for example, or in 2012, Spain fell by 3.8% and Galicia by 2.4%. Spain goes down again in 2015. The evolution between 2008 and 2015 is that in Spain births fall by 19.5% and in Galicia by 16.5%. So, Your Honor, would you like to talk about demography? I want to listen to your proposals, but I'm not saying that in a two-party government year 1,000 more boys or girls were born in Galicia, because we come to conclusions, frankly, that nobody likes them. I'm going to finish, ladies and gentlemen. About taxes, you ask me what we're going to do with taxes. Well, look, we've been selectively downgrading during the years of the economic recession. We lowered the taxes on housing for young people and large families, lowered the taxes on the Greek companies investing in Galicia. We've been taxing for all these years. And the first year in which we had an increase in the budget, the first thing we did was to make the biggest tax reduction in the history of the Autonomous Community of Galicia: 99% of the Greeks and the Greeks don't pay for inheriting or making an intervention as a contribution before the corresponding inheritance. We double lowered the income tax of physical persons, and benefited 98.5% of the taxpayers. And I'm going to give you the data: at the date of the year 2016, there are 46,652 Greeks who haven't paid for receiving their inheritance. No less, 46,652 Galician families haven't paid for the inheritance we've been in 2016, and there are 5,300 Welsh people who paid zero for buying any kind of rural rustic farm in the autonomous community. What are we going to do? Of course, fighting tax fraud. He's been at it for the last three years. He's been in a tax fraud of 480 million euros. I think it is worth once again to congratulate public employees, in this particular case those who work in the Tax Agency in Galicia: 480 million euros of undeclared debt as tax fraud. What are we going to do? Then keep your taxes down. We've already come forward with one: that in the rural municipalities it won't be paid for buying a house, a house. For whom? For young people, for numerous families, of course. We'll see if we can keep expanding that zero recording in rural for everyone. Of course we'll go see him. But you will understand that right now I would like to know what the Socialist Party's position is. Because the Socialist Party in the autonomous communities where governs taxes always goes up. Do you agree to raise taxes or lower taxes, Mr. Leicega? I'm sure we'll have occasion during the legislate to see you, of course. Now, I say that in Andalusia you're going to ask what's going on. Or ask, if you like, other autonomous communities where the Socialist Party governs what it does with taxes. But naturally, I think we're going to have a lot of time to talk about it. I have been reprimanded several times — positively, of course — by self-government. And I've been listening to the subjects of self-government throughout the session. There are some who believe that it is much more important to achieve the transfer of the Castle of Monterrey than to maintain the autonomy of the Autonomous Community when the vast majority of autonomous communities have been intervened by the Government of Spain, but each one, as is natural, sets his priorities. We have maintained all the competences of the Autonomous Community during the recession and the economic crisis, which have not been able to do the vast majority of the autonomous communities. [[Applause]] Mr. Leicega says this is neutral. No, no, being at the bottom of autonomic liquidity means payments are ordered by the Spanish Ministry of Finance. What would a President of Galician Union say if he lost the treasury? What qualifications would you address to a President of the Council of Galicia if anyone ordering the payment is the Ministry of Finance and not the Council of Finance of Galicia? What would you say, ladies and gentlemen, if we didn't have enough autonomy to place public debt on the markets and had to close them because nobody lends us a euro, because they don't trust us and because they have doubts that we return it, and we had to ask the Government of Spain for money to arrive at the end of the month and that the Government of Spain marks what are the payment priorities? Mr. Leicega, you know that there is no political autonomy without financial autonomy and, therefore, we have maintained political autonomy and maintained financial autonomy. If we want to talk about the AP-9 motorway, no problem, Your Honor. You ruled twenty-two years. Look how long they've had time to transfer it! But it doesn't matter, that's what happened. If we want to talk about the Atlantic Highway, of course we do. They ruled for eight years with the government of Rodríguez Zapatero. You haven't had time to expand the Atlantic highway, is it curious, have you, Mr. Leicega? And now it turns out that there are some people who happen to have to come down the toll. The same ones that were ruling in the Spanish Government now say that we have to lower the coast of the Atlantic highway. Your Honor, you have to be calm with each other's history, with each other's political biography, it's essential that we be able to speak freely where he has the opportunity to be heard. Look, Mr. Leicega, I appreciate your willingness to help, because that's what I think. Between the political forces until 2020 we are composed like this, what we are talking about is helping out, helping out if we are able to be part of the solution and not just aiming at describing the problems. Then I'll talk to finish this intervention. Mr. Villares, it would be good if you reopened the Box Commission, you came to it. I'm saying this because, as you know, they didn't come to the previous one, they came from observers. It's amazing. I'm still wondering why they didn't come and I'm still wondering why, when some CEO of the boxes appeared, you didn't ask questions. It would be good if you asked in your group why, when the box managers were at the front, you didn't ask questions. Maybe because they didn't dare? Maybe because they didn't have a chance to ask it wasn't just that they answered them? [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Villares, with all due respect, I feel very satisfied with what I did -- I couldn't do any more, I can assure you, I couldn't do any more -- for the preferenceists, I couldn't do any more for the jobs of the financial institutions, I couldn't do more for the companies that work for these financial entities by taking all the applications systems. I'm sorry that when we opened the boxing committee you didn't want to participate. And I repeat again — unless I'm wrong — that they didn't ask questions from the box managers. Why? Maybe because he wasn't interested? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Let's keep talking, Your Honor. You follow public debt proposals. It would be nice to know exactly, but I know, because I've been here a long time, listening to him, what AGE said, which I suppose would be more or less what you say now — more or less, I don't know exactly, we'll be checking it out. But in the parliamentary questions of his voice, while he was here, he always had a problem with debt. And he said, "You're indebted to the Autonomous Community." And the truth is, yes. But then, when they presented the amendments in the general budget of the Autonomous Community, you would increase your debt. There was more to be owed. And he was commenting on the spokesperson of the group, and it is true that Galicia is the autonomous community that has increased public debt since 2008. I think that's a date. Galicia is now among the less indebted autonomous communities of Spain, and in 2008 Galicia had a public debt, as a percentage, above the average of Spain. I don't think that data is a minor data, I think you should take it into account. Galicia had 6.7% of GDP, i.e. 0.1% of Spain's average, and now we're 5.3%, below average. And what did we get with that? So having less than 3,000 million public debt we would have if we were to be in debt just like the average of the autonomous communities. And, besides, what did we get? Saving EUR 85 million in financial expenditure. I don't think that's a minor matter. Are you now in favor of or against the public debt? Controlling public debt is important for an economy, no doubt. Being able to pay the biggest tax rebate in Galicia's history, with these 46,000 other Greeks 5,000 who did not pay — more than 50,000 families did not pay taxes or inheritance or purchase rustic real estates — is an effect of having controlled public debt. Galicia is the autonomous community which invested most money per capita on its budget: in 2005 twice as much as the average of the autonomous communities. In Galicia, 466 euros average; and in autonomous communities, 242. The double that the rest of the autonomous communities have invested in Galicia under their budgets during the economic crisis — date of 2015, the last known — And you also know what we can achieve by controlling public debt? Pay less in interest and strengthen social spending. Galicia already dedicates more than 40% of its budget to health. In 2008, it dedicated 35%. Galicia dedicates to sanity 1,288 euros per capita, 7% more than the average of the autonomous communities. And with regard to education, 24% more than the average of autonomous communities among similar populations; between populations between 2 and 24 years old, 24% more than the average. So what social systems are we talking about? That's what the data says. And this kind of thing led us to hospitals. Yes, expanding the Coruña hospital, finishing the Lugo hospital, completely equipping Lugo hospital, finishing Ourense hospital, completing the Vigo hospital as a whole, expanding the Salnés Hospital. Now the works of the Navy are begun, and then the works of the hospital in Pontevedra, the hospital in Ferrol and those of the Hospital Clinic. And it led us to launch the largest investment in health service technology: 88 million euros in TAC, in resonances, in digital mammographs. That's why I'm convinced that you can't say, unless it's a slogan, that we're privatizing health. Because the truth is that public health in Galicia is more public than ever. You know why? Because we're funding it with our own resources, and because public hospitals care for more people than before, and because we're doing more surgical interventions, more external consultations and more diagnostic evidence, and because we're paying more attention at home, and because we're doing less surgery, and because I'm definitely -- and I'm just repeating what I said this morning -- I'm proud of the Greek public health professionals, even though they attack them, Your Honor, even though they attack them. I know. [[Applause]] If you are interested in the data, the increase in concerts in private clinics during 2004 to 2008 was 44%. During these last years, since 2009, it has decreased by 9%. If you're interested in the data, I'll tell you to form your opinion and have all the data. Because, as you say, if we were wrong in the diagnosis, how would we get to some solid basis in reasoning? Look, I understand that everything is likely to change, and people, of course, can change their mind. You often change your mind. That doesn't mean anything; just take note. You change your mind, and it turns out they now say that we have dedicated part of the specific complement of the public employees of the Autonomous Community to rescue the banks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's hard for a bigger nonsense. I'm telling you because, look, the public employees in the Autonomous Community -- and I insist that you thank them again for all the money they put in to maintain public services -- we invest in health and education. [[Laughter]] We don't rescue the banks, Your Honor. The only thing we couldn't admit is that they rescued the Catalan boxes, the Andalusian boxes, the Spanish-manched boxes, the Madrid box, and we came here as fools. Not with this anymore! That was history, Your Honor. By fooling, by nothing, and defending Galician interests, always, Your Honor, always. [[Applause]] I say you change your mind, and that's good. It turns out that for some time there were a number of countries with which Spain could in no case have diplomatic relations, or any kind of contract with them, no kind of activity with them. Well, that's good. One of these countries, according to their heads of Madrid, is Saudi Arabia. Look at what you just said, because the head of state is about to start, or is, on an official trip to Saudi Arabia. However, your boss in Ferrol says that the important thing is the ships, Your Honor, that you don't care, and, if you have to go to Saudi Arabia and sign contracts to get ships to Ferrol, please. [[Murmurs.]] Who do you agree with, Mr. Churches or the mayor of Ferrol? [[Murmurs.]] We'll see in a little bit in the legislation for who you are. But it would be good, Your Honor, to have a single criterion to be able to discuss the alternative "a" or alternative "b". Because if not, all alternatives are very difficult to answer. But, ladies and gentlemen, questions aside — parliamentary discussion is always rich — I come here to ask for the support of the House, to ask for the support of the House and to defend what we have done. Mr. Leicega said, but you and Mrs. Pontón are not going to give me your support for the balance of my years of government. But I thought the balance of my years of government was already judged, because for that we make elections. Oh, right? [[Murmurs.]] Well, it seems that the opposition says no, that the Greeks are wrong to vote again. I thought that debate had already passed, but, well, you'll know what you have to do. Look, I have to thank you, I repeat — and I end it definitely — and I want to thank all of you, the investment speech. Why? Because I started my speech last Tuesday asking for respect for Parliament, and I have observed for these two days that there is a change of ways. And I think that's good. And that's why I appreciate the tone of your speeches, and that all the Greeks and all the Greeks could see a debate marked by respect. By differences, yes; by contradictory proposals, too; but marked by respect. Because you can disagree with absolute education. I mean, you can profoundly disagree with an enormous education. Because -- more than respect between us -- the important thing is that this respect between us is what is moving in respect of Galicia that we represent here. And I'm convinced that, if we keep the starting point in forms, we can agree on things at the bottom, which is what it is. Because here we came to hear each other, to know each other's proposals. And, after knowing each one's proposals and defending them, accept the result of the votes. That is democracy. We're all presenting ourselves to these elections, we all want to be here. We are subject to the consideration of the Greeks and the Greeks all of us here, all of us. We all wanted to be president of the board. There were four candidates: one candidate and three candidates. And we all had the aspiration — the four, the candidate and the three candidates — to be able to submit to an investment session like the one that's about to end. And I understand I'm not the candidate of this whole House, because there were three others who wanted to be candidates. But the Greeks, and not us, decided that the candidate, within the four, was one, which is the important one. That's why I'm here. I'm here because the Greeks let me be here, they tell me to be here. And I'm at your service, gentlemen. I'm not the candidate of this whole House. I know that seeing me here frustrates the expectations of the other candidates, but I come here to propose that, instead of passing another four years pointing out what's missing, pointing out what's wrong, pointing out what's wrong, arrogant the representativity they don't have, they're part of the solutions. Because that's how useful it is that these four years go by and we're back in 2020 and you're trying to blame yourself for what you're winning and do another investment session that the Greeks and the Greeks have decided to be president again. The Greeks, therefore, are the owners. They decided and gave us the honor of being here for everyone. And what matters now is to keep up with those Greeks and those gales. Of course, I can assure you that I did not present myself to these elections for what I did, but for what I want to do. Just as I accepted and will continue to accept that I am wrong, that I am wrong and that I doubt, I can also assure you that what I care about is what remains to be done. His speech, in my opinion, was to try to rewrite what the Greeks had already valued. But the Greeks have already voted, ladies and gentlemen. The count's over. So, thinking here today that we're on a second-round sort of thing is that we're wrong in session. This is not the second round of elections. This is the first turn of the next four years, and I propose that you leave the situation on 1 March 2009. But they left the situation on 1 March 2009 not to get into the situation on 25 September 2016, because what we have to do is 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. That's what we've got ahead of us. Galicia is waiting for us, and therefore we have to answer to Galicia, that what is waiting is nothing more than trying to hit it. It's obvious that what we did in previous legislates all the Greeks know about it, and it was also valued. And the question I suppose you're asking yourself is, what did you do during this time? You ask for changes, you ask for changes that the Greeks do not want to change. You want changes from what the Greeks supported with their votes on September 25. Don't ask me to do the opposite of what the Greeks tell me. Don't ask me that, I won't. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will undoubtedly find the exercise of self-criticism, self-existence and non-conformity. I always wonder if we can do more things, I always wonder if what we've done is enough, I always wonder if the money — which is a scarce resource for alternative uses — can be devoted to other things. Do you really wonder and believe that everything that happens in Galicia is because of Feijóo? Do you think everything that happens in Galicia is because of the PP? Do you think what happened was they missed a week's campaign? Do you think what happened is because of the journalists? Do you think what happened to them is because of the elders? Do you think what happened to them is the alienation and ignorance of our people? Do you think it's the fault of the Greeks that happened? No, ladies and gentlemen, we respect the country. We respect the country, what happened is what the Greeks decided what had happened. That is a basic principle which is in no way appropriate for us to lose sight of all the days we have the Minutes of either Member or Member. Look, nobody says there's no problem. I am the first to say that the first goal of the Government, if I have the confidence of this House, are the people who suffer the most, people who have effects as a result of the lack of work of their father or mother, or of the two, are the people who do not arrive at the end of the month, they are the people who work and their wages are not enough. That's the first thing I said. I am the first, therefore, who believes that there are still many Greeks with difficulty. And do you think I'm here because the Greeks understood that what I said is that all Galicia is okay and there's no problem? Do you think I'm here because most of the Greeks think there's no problem in Galicia? No, ladies. What consideration would we have for the Greeks if we thought the People's Party had the only majority of Spain? What consideration would we have for the Greeks if the Greeks thought and voted for what they think are the best policies for them and theirs? That's why the Greeks voted to us, ladies and gentlemen, because they believe that the best employment policies are on the banks of the Government, and because they believe that redistributing the pockets of hardship and poverty, and the social policies we practice, and the policies of encouragement to families, and the policies of health, education and social services... and the farmers and sailors and the unemployed and the elderly consider that we are the best choice within the options possible. And of course there are problems, ladies and gentlemen, of course there are problems to address, to resolve, of course, yes. What I ask of my people is that they respect themselves, and from then on each one who makes proposals that he considers appropriate. Of course there are problems to address and problems to solve. We respect the Greeks. How? Working together, that's my proposal. If we're going to be four years in the next Union blaming such a spell of everything that's going to happen by 2020, it's like you thought it's going to end them in 2020, which didn't put them in the year 2009, or in 2012, or in 2016; that's not. That's why, if you want to help, I'm at your disposal. If you'd like to put forward any proposal for Galicia, for the Greek public services, for freedom in Galicia and for the majority, I'm at your disposal. And I want to finish by telling them something that I'm convinced they believe me. I didn't introduce myself against anyone, did I? Not at all. I did not present myself with the only political motivation to defeat those who occupy the opposition benches. No, no, no, no. My motivation is not that. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't hide that I doubted whether I should introduce myself again or not for a reason: because I said I'd introduce myself twice. That's why I said I doubted it, of course. Look, Your Honor, after I presented twice, on two occasions, as a candidate for my party, and that the Greeks in both gave us that absolute majority, it was impossible to overcome those two calls. Yes, Your Honor, it was impossible, because all we could do, with enough possibilities, was not to revalidate. And if one looked at only what interests him and his political history or his political biography, so that we could risk ourselves, ending the political career with a defeat in Parliament? Well, look, Your Honor, I've introduced myself again because I want my country, so never, never, ever, ever pay Galicia what Galicia has given us again, which is the third most absolute and the only majority of Spain. So don't look for anyone's enemy in me because they're not. No, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] O Allah! If you think I'm your enemy...! Look, to have enemies, the first thing is to have two people facing. Since I am not against you, you will have enemies alone; of course, I will not be. I won't find it... the enemy of you — if you allow me — gives me the feeling that you forget that Galicia has no enemies, Galicia has its interests: interest in getting out of the way, legitimate interests, interests of respect within an autonomous state. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] And that's why I'm here, to defend those interests. Not to go against anyone, but to go for and for the Greeks. And that's why I repeat: we work together. That's my disposition, working together. To work together, I have to ask for the support of the People's Parliamentary Group. You'll understand that if you don't, this wouldn't be the case. So first of all, I must thank the People's Parliamentary Group for their support. Your support not only this afternoon, but all these years. And I have to thank the voters of the People's Party for their support, otherwise we wouldn't be here. And I have to thank all of them for their support during the years of recession, for the years of the crisis, for the years of the crisis, for the years of the difficulties. I have to thank all of them, of course. But after thanking this parliamentary group for their support, and the voters for their support, I want to tell them that I am no longer the candidate of a party or the candidate of a paper paper or the candidate of an acronym. I will try to be the candidate — and I hope that President — of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And that's why I repeat, on behalf of Galicia, that we work together. There's a majority open to all the Greeks, don't doubt that. There's a majority open. In politics, Mr. Leicega, Mr. Villares, Mrs. Pontón, is passing by. And after what we've lived together for these years, what remains is the country, nothing more. Galicia is a common task. And the common task is for the Greeks and the Greeks today to Galicia tomorrow. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u64	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Feijó. At the end of the investment debate, we shall proceed to the vote, which we shall do in good time, eighteenty. We'll be warning you through the bell. At 1850 we shall vote. Thank you. Let's get the session up. The session is suspended for three minutes and resumed at six and fifty-three minutes in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u65	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Quiet, please. The session is resumed. We shall then proceed to the vote for the election of the President of Galicia. The vote shall take place in accordance with the procedure set out above and which shall be drawn up in accordance with Rule 136(6) of the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, I would ask the Secretary to proceed to draw the number of the honourable Member or the honourable Member to whom the vote will begin. As I said earlier, the members of the Government in office, and but the members of the House, will vote at the end, and this presidency will end. I beg you, Madam Secretary, to extract the number and make public the name of the person by which we shall begin the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u66	Fernández Gil, César Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u67	Thank you. So we started the vote. Proceed, Madam Secretary, by drawing lots, and then by alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u68	Fernández Gil, César Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u70	Fernández Leiceaga, Xoaquín Maria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u71	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u72	Fernández Prado, Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u73	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u74	González Vázquez, José.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u75	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u76	Lake Peñas, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u77	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u78	López Abella, Maria Susana.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u80	López Crespo, Carlos Enrique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u82	López-Chaves Castro, Ignacio Javier.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u84	Losada Álvarez, Abel Fermin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u85	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u86	Merlo Lorenzo, Juan José.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u87	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u88	Murillo Solis, Maria Guadalupe.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u90	New Churches, Marta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u92	Núñez Centeno, Aurelio Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u93	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u94	Pérez López, Álvaro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u96	Pérez Seco, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u97	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u98	Pierres López, María Luisa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u99	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u100	Pontón Mondelo, Ana Belén.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u101	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u102	Prado Cores, María Montserrat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u103	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u104	Prado del Río, Paula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u106	Presas Berganginos, Noa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u107	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u108	Puy Fraga, Pedro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u110	Quinteiro Araújo, Paula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u111	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u112	Quiroga Díaz, José Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u113	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u114	Rivas Cruz, José Luis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u115	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u116	Rodil Fernández, Olalla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u117	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u118	Rodríguez Arias, Marta.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u120	Rodríguez Estévez, David.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u121	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u122	Rodríguez Miranda, Antonio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u124	Rodríguez Rumbo, Matilde Begoña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u125	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u126	Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez, Marta María.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u127	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u128	Romero Fernández, Cristina Isabel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u129	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u130	Sánchez García, Anton.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u131	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u132	Santos Queiruga, Carmen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u133	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u134	Tellado Filgueira, Miguel Ángel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u135	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u136	Tortado Quintela, Julio.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u137	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u138	Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, Daniel Luís.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u140	Vázquez Domínguez, Sandra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u142	Vázquez Verao, Paula.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u143	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u144	Vilán Lorenzo, Patricia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u145	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u146	Villares Naveira, Luis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u147	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u148	Álvarez Martínez, Luis Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u149	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u150	Amigo Díaz, Maria Incarnation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u151	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u152	Balseiro Orol, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u154	Bará Torres, Xoese Luís.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u155	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u156	Barahona Martín, Magdalena.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u157	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u158	White Paradelo, Moses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u160	White Rodríguez, Noela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u161	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u162	Cal Ogongo, Marcos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u163	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u164	Casal Vidal, Francisco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u165	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u166	Castineira Broz, Jaime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u168	Castro Domínguez, Maria Nava.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u170	Chao Pérez, Luca.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u171	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u172	Touris Colors, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u174	Comña Bóveda, Maria de los Angeles.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u175	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u176	Díaz Mouteira, Maria Sol.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u177	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u178	Díaz Villoslada, Juan Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u179	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u180	Egerique Mosquera, Teresa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u182	Fernández Fernández, Raúl.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u183	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u184	Quintana Carballo, Rosa Maria.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u186	Vázquez Mejuto, Maria Angeles.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u187	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u188	King Varela, José Manuel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u190	Vázquez Almuínña, Jesus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u191	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u192	Rodríguez González, Román.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u194	Count López, Francisco José.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u195	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u196	Vázquez Mourelle, Ethel María.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u197	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u198	Mato Otero, Beatriz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u200	Martinez García, Valeriano.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u201	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u202	Valenzuela Wheel, Alfonso.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u203	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u204	Nuñez Feijóo, Alberto.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u205	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u206	Burgo López, Concepción.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u207	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u208	Arias Rodríguez, Raquel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u209	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u210	Sola Fernández, Eva.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u211	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u212	Calvo Pouso, Diego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u213	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u214	Santalices Vieira, Miguel Ángel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u215	Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-10-DSPG003.u216	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The results of the vote are as follows: votes delivered, 75; votes in favour, 41; votes against, 34; no abstentions. Having obtained the absolute majority, I call Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo President of the Council of Galicia. [[Extensive applause.]] Thank you very much. This election will immediately be given to your Majesty El-King, in accordance with Article 18 of Law 1/1983 of 22 February, of the rules governing the Union and its presidency. The session is up. Good afternoon, everyone.
