ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We're entering SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Continue the debate on the motion of censure against the Government submitted by the Chief of Police Representation and Chairman of the Radical Left coalition, Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the Group's Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure. Let me give you the first five of the colleagues to speak. Since yesterday Mr. Logiadis, I see that Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Charakopoulos, Mrs. Auger, Mr. Kelles, Mr. Mulkiotis and Mr. Hadjivassiliou. I say these colleagues because I am also waiting for the list of Ministers. Probably after the five-six colleagues a Minister will speak and we will continue with Mrs Jack, Mrs Pipili, Mr Marino, Mr Theocharis and Mr Mamulakis. Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am pleased that we, as a PART25, are starting the debate, because we are really the only different party here from everyone else. We are those who in December last year in the budget debate said that this motion of censure should then be made to have a real debate on what we are doing today, on the causes which we have been brought here to highlight these issues for the Memorandum Policies of the past three years. We, as Mer25, will vote in favour of the motion of censure, but this motion of censure will involve all three Memorandum parties, New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. Because we want the government that continues the very same way that PASOK started, then the New Democracy with PASOK, then SYRIZA, and today the New Democracy, oriental, on its own, the road to memorials, the road to destruction, the road to the assignment of our national sovereignty. His private property can be done by anyone who wants to. Public property has no right to grant it, one more when our ancestors have shed their blood for this public property, to have a Greek free. What if we work together after any elections, whenever they take place? With who? We will not work with anyone who is not willing to break with the memoranda, with the troika, with the self-destruction of Greece and Europe. We represent 62% of the Greek people who then said 'no', 'no' in the memorials, 'no' in depreciation, 'no' in indulgence. Whenever elections are held, the next government, which will continue with the Memorandum of Understanding and Policies, the external and above-mentioned mandates, will be even worse than all previous ones, because the disaster will become ever greater, deeper and worse. What are you going to do now with HERAKLE, with red loans, with overtaxation, with the memoranda that destroys the healthy economy, with the transfer of public property? There's none of you in here that's ready to crash. He doesn't want the break. He's afraid to change that catastrophic course. That's exactly where you invest in fear. Whatever's not solved, it's cut. And here that we have arrived today is a modern European Gordian bond. In the way the European Union works and makes decisions or better the Brussels lobbys, the very big companies that really run the European Union and not the peoples and elected governments of Europe. For the management of pandemic, we are the only ones who have said from the outset that, for example, the European Union must buy vaccines and give them to poor countries that cannot be vaccinated, such as Africa, otherwise we will have mutations and that is what we are seeing today. On a pan-European level, we brought the vaccine mess between Germany, France, England, corruption, the "business as usual" in Greece, the catastrophic course. The hospitals did COVID and the clinicians, the private clinics rub their hands. The biggest problem in the management of the pandemic was that society was divided with your other and contradictory measures. I come from tourism. In the summer we wanted tourists from all over the world and from the Eastern countries vaccinated with Chinese or Russian vaccines, but not to get Russian vaccines or Chinese from the European Union. And that is where you have not put any veto into the European Union. You have divided society with the tips of young people, with the fines, with the obligation. The joy of the clinical authority is that there should be no prevention, having fully devalued the National Health System. With regard to crisis management, fires, floods, earthquakes, snow now. One worse in crisis management. HMY had recently predicted everything very well. You tried to deceive the meteorologists. The Minister responsible said everything was ready, but nothing was ready. Personally, I warned him that I had met him in the Arkalochori earthquakes that he was sitting on an electric chair. One government spokesman was saying other things, the ministers said other things. A huge alalum. I personally got locked up not on Attica Street, locked out of the Pentagon, on the Avenue of the Republic that unites Kifisia with the Mediterranean Sea. That's where I'm locked up. Did I get a pocket money, too? Thousands of houses have been powerless for many days. Where? Athens. You're going to give some tips there, too? You have devaluated all municipalities and all regions, as in Crete, the Municipality of Minos - Pedados, which is becoming the airport, which has become the earthquakes. There is only one political engineer there for all these works. As far as the accuracy is concerned, the Energy Exchange initiated by SYRIZA, and you continue today, has blown power prices, and the Prime Minister speaks and says that the government's aim is to maximise PPC's price. But price maximisation means a profit for the company, which is contrary to the public character of the company. Every network, service or asset of social benefit that is privatised is destroyed. This model is consciously antisocial. This is a planned, profitable policy of the few three Memorandum Governments that delivers all public property, roads such as Attica, airports, "Eleftherios Venizelos" and fourteen other regional, ports, trains, education, health for individuals. That's why we're against tolls and BOAK. The only solution is to put under public control all public property and strategic sectors now allocated to the fewer. If an anonymous company, as you are, had the same inefficiency as you in the bad weather of Elpis, that company would have no hope. It would have been closed. It would've gone bankrupt. And you have bankrupt the Greek people and in the eyes of the Greek people you have been bankrupt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis, for keeping time. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the PASOK - Change Movement comes to the debate on the motion of censure with two political advantages: the first is our journey in recent years as Responsibility for Responsibility, which gives us the right to relinquish, but also to renounce the government, with patriotic attitudes to national and defence issues and to insist on the national understanding and the development of our defence industry, with control and criticism of the government, and also proposals from our progressive, social-democratic identity and consultation with society, on solutions, fair solutions, on the problems of the economy and society. In July 2019, the citizens, disappointed by SYRIZA, gave the mandate to Mr Mitsotakis for things that would bring Greece and the Greeks better. Instead of using an integrated strategy, however, the country's rich production sources, its people, European resources, are used in a transparent manner and without a plan with lists of funds and projects under the heading ‘Greece 2.0’. 44 billion was allocated for the pandemic, but without justice, priorities and objectives, and that is why they did not catch the place in question. Instead of changes and reforms, arrangements are made. This is how resources and opportunities are lost for Greece and the Greeks. Today, thirty months after the rule of New Democracy, we call it on the disappointing elements to the economic and social indicators. The deficits are increasing, the public debt, the private debt, the public debts to the citizens. Income decreases. Poverty is growing and social inequalities are growing. The market shares are growing in fewer hands and small and medium-sized enterprises are shrinking. Intensity in taxation, which is gradually transferred by households and consumption, is intensified. The indirect and direct taxes relationship from 1.15 in 2014 went to SYRIZA at 1.45 and now at 1.52. In all of this, the wave of precision, which is galloping, from energy and transport, has moved with intensity to all products and basic goods, services and all sectors. For the primary sector in particular, it is a dramatic increase in production costs, coupled with the injustices caused by the reductions in subsidies, which put farmers in a difficult position. We call on the government to lack will to deal with accuracy. It has not exploited any of the institutional tools for controlling and ensuring healthy competition on the market. It did not reduce indirect taxes, it did not substantially support households, businesses and workers. We are indebted to the government for the management of the pandemic. He rejected our proposals to support the ESS and, in particular, primary health care. Mass tests, tracking, media rules and schools, the plan for fast vaccination was rejected. He has been succumbed to the recycling of contractors and subsidiary and has not even accepted the amendment we have tabled fourteen times for heavy and unhealthy health workers. Mr. Mitsotakis' last mile was true. But it was not in a straight line, but the perimeter of a vicious circle that he created and brings us back to the same point. We call on the Government to continue failures in the management of natural phenomena and disasters to multiply the consequences of its inadequacy. ‘Janus’, ‘Medea’, fires, floods, earthquakes, ‘Elpis’. Two years after the adoption of the Civil Protection Act - Mr Chardalias is here - he has not yet been implemented. Following the failure to deal with the fires in the summer, it was decided to establish a separate ministry, which we welcomed. Today we have a Minister, but we do not have a policy, we do not have a structured and effective civil protection mechanism, with adequate staff and modern equipment. Regional coordinators have been appointed in vague responsibilities and regional coordination councils have not yet been established. Civil protection plans were set up in the closed office cycle without suffering the suffering of their test in the exercise. The lack of seriousness also appears by the fact that the Anti-Semitism Agency, the OSCE, has not yet been transferred to the new Ministry and, moreover, has remained unadministrated after the end of its term of office, with what this implies for the country's report. In Crete, the 2020 floods are still awaiting compensation and the earthquakes of 2021 your promises and the organised economic and social reconstruction plan of the region, which is probably non-existent. The municipalities, the "Elpida" club to deal with the problems of earthquakes and our questions to the ministers, the relevant ministers, are waiting for answers that do not come. Of course, problems are multiplying at the same time. All this, apart from the lack of political will, has a common basis and starting point: the failure of the so-called state of service. We are also indebted to the government today and to the Prime Minister personally and we are voting on the proposal of distrust for the lack of political manipulations, for anti-social and selective policies, for insistence on the state, on the opaque system of governance, which fails to safeguard the public interest and care for the many, but it succeeds the 'logues' and the powerful. It is clear that this situation must also be changed by the citizens who are currently experiencing the governance of the New Democracy, but who also have the negative experiences of the SYRIZA. Our second advantage, therefore, is that this expectation of citizens comes to meet, at a critical time, with the dynamics that we are developing with our society and with the catalytic strengthening of the two hundred and seventy thousand citizens who participated in the election of the new president. The prospect is not only visible but also valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u5	We too, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy by Larisi Prefecture, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday a newspaper in the field of Officerial Response was entitled that its Chief begins a "unintentional" term against the government. It appears that Mr. Tsipras, after serving the imitation of Andreas Papandreou, now, rather in desperation, decided to imitate Georgios Papandreou as well. But politics is not done by imitation. Everyone actually proves what they are. Mr Tsipras and his party have proved it for four and a half years. They had the opportunity to rule with the hollow promises they have dedicated and the fruitfruits they have made. But their chances have been swept away. The life and state of the SYRIZA government - ANEL were judged in 2019 in multiple elections. Citizens have asked for a different governance, a new beginning, a new vision. They asked for reforms in the economy, education, justice. They asked for stability, jobs and prospects. And they asked the New Democracy of Mr. Mitsotakis to do all this. In these two and a half years, however, the implementation of the work of the government has been faced with a series of difficult and sometimes unpredictable challenges, such as the prolonged coronary pandemic, a plague of Pharaoh that agitates the whole world, takes away lives, undermines economies, restricts freedoms and upsets the regularity of societies. In this context, the Mitsotakis Government sought to balance between the protection of health, the citizens and the functioning of the economy, and it has therefore used all available tools, the lockdown - particularly at the time of vaccines - the vaccines - when these were released - and the financial support of workers and businesses of EUR 42 000 000 000 so that jobs are not lost. And the Civic Opposition, which today moves the finger for them, in fact, many dead in the pandemic that saddens us all, what attitude did it take when everyone tried to convince them of the need for vaccination, when projected strains closed their eyes to the anti-vaccination movement? Yes, the dead would have been much less if more had been vaccinated, if so many of our fellow humans had not fallen victim to any of the fake news, which the government was forced to fight even with tough measures, such as the availability of nurses and the imposition of fines, to which SYRIZA also reacted. However, while the needle was stuck in the so - called neoliberalism of the government, the ESS was strengthened by fourteen thousand intakes of doctors, nurses and other personnel, while beds in intensive care units more than doubled. Ladies and gentlemen, the Qualified Opposition also resigns the Government in fact. It also puts this into the dorva, hoping, in its regular practice, that impressions are created, regardless of whether the phenomenon is global, whether inflation affects everyone and is due to external factors, such as an increase in energy prices, which in turn also boast because of the exacerbation of competition between the critical players of the international system. But that looks like a fine letter for SYRIZA. It is important that the demagogy runs at a rate of 7% if the Greek economy is to stand, let unemployment disappear, let investment increase, let economic colossians invest in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the motion of censure, the recent bad weather and its consequences have come to many of our fellow citizens who have been caught in roads and, above all, the Attica road. Undoubtedly, the suffering suffered was painful, fortunately, without any victims. Of course there are responsibilities at many levels of coordination and early decisions. Unfortunately, we are a long way from the crisis management mechanism that we would like. A great deal of work is needed for the state mechanism to respond effectively to any challenge. But SYRIZA's asking for the government to leave due to her performance in recent snowfall to come to power that will do everything in perfection, I am sorry, but it is a shame, because the painful memories of Mandra or the tragedy in Matti are still fresh when, instead of apologizing, we have all watched a sad theatre starring Mr. Tsipras himself. Ladies and gentlemen, the hope that SYRIZA's term of office in Anti-Population would work as a time of maturation was denied. Unfortunately, he was unable to overcome his childhood diseases, populism, irresponsibility, the tendency to demagogy. Only it is now not 2015, now the citizens know you, now you are not being believed, and that is why the numbers of polls are falling back and the second position is already being questioned. That is why the inner-party graying and questioning are being giggled. But the solution is neither heroic eruptions nor rhetoric wards. Greece needs something better and this will come with a plan, with work, with reforms. Already in many areas there are undeniable successes recorded: in defence, diplomacy, digital transformation. And so we should continue, because the country needs political stability and creative vision, not turbulence and failed recipes of the past. In the Minutes, Mr President, the relevant headlines of the newspaper 'KONTRA NEWS' which I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u7	All right, now Mrs Theodora Augeris, Member of the SYRIZA, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, we call on the House to lift confidence in the Mitsotakis Government so that the country can be brought to elections as soon as possible. And that is because the majority of Greek society has long calmed its trust in the parasitic system of Mitsotakis, which only badly and unhappy holds many for the benefit of the few and the interlocutory. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, you wonder why people can't stand you, they can't stand you, and they want you to leave. But in order to be disembodied by this criminal policy, such as criminal management in the pandemic that each day costs hundreds of human lives. Every day we lose a Eye and you have the nerve and talk. And yesterday we had more than a hundred lives lost. Twenty-three thousand people have lost their lives to this day, but neither does it tear your eye nor sweat your ears. As you did not sweat your ears, gentlemen who do not listen to the voices of the doctors and parents who called on you not to close the "Pedia Pendelis" hospital under the pretext of converting it to a vaccination center. And instead of listening to them, you answered them with the MATs. And finally, the pediatric hospital was turned into a ski resort by supposedly vaccination. He did not sweat the ear of your Government and the Minister of Health nor with the voices of the patients of the “Saving Hospital”, who were left on the island on Monday evening, as due to falling trees had cut access to the cooking room. Tall letters for Mr. Ploris, who proudly said that everything was under control, while it was impossible to access twenty hospitals in the capital. As it was not possible to stay in hospitals with available ICU beds for patients intubated outside the ICU, as were out of the morgue dozens dead because the ceremonies offices could not approach the excluded hospitals. Of course, if you're sweating your ears, it's not to spoil your image, but this time, like the fires in the summer season, you didn't manage to hide. In a written document, the EAW called for attention to be paid to cases where publicity is likely to be affected. Here is the relevant document - and I would ask you to put it in the Minutes - which confirms both your mess and your premiere, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that people should not know your mess so that they do not see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora (Group) Augeris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The country is struggling and paralyzing by the government's non-existence and the government is engaged in the terms of its projection and is working on projects such as the one on shrinking and closing public hospitals in the region. Responsibility, analgesia, hypocrisy, crisis of majesty. In another abused performance, shortly before disappearing, the Prime Minister visited homeless, while a few days earlier director of ophthalmological clinics, namely "Agia Olga", was disciplinaryly controlled for operating homeless, bypassing bureaucratic stumblings put on her by your blue commander. He had - you see - given the oath of Hippocrates and not the oath in the final state. In terms of institutional diversion, your Government, the Mitsotakis Government, is trying to cover up and bury crimes against the public, such as the "NOVARTIS" scandal, making investigative journalism a crime, persecuting journalists such as Gianna Papadakou and Kostas Vaxevanis, persecuting judges and all those who investigate and reveal financial scandals and the responsibilities of the jury of ministers and politicians. The Mitsotakis Government must go away so that the Greek people can be disembodied from this para-state treaty, which the underworld has the nerve to break into a ministerial office, blackmail a minister and threaten with bracelets, as the former Minister of Labour and now your Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsis - is absent now, but it's all right, it's his colleague here - from the arms of the alleged Furthite, this once good child, ladies and gentlemen of the government, who protected it from fourteen police officers and a bunch of police patrols and you still haven't answered why. Unless the answers we will take them from the sms that Furtiotis reveals, as well as his relations with Maximos and, above all, with the Minister of State, Mr. Gerapitritis. "With you and your message" messages, hagiographies of television tributes to the Minister by Furthiotis, who now deceive him and do that you don't know him. We demand that the government and, in particular, the Minister of State give answers. As much as he avoided giving them over the previous period, he would surely not avoid them in discussing the motion of censure on the whole of the government and of course on his face. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u9	Tolerance one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u10	This state of decay and sepsis was set up by the Prime Minister. It has put the words ‘final state’ from the outset. The 'no' that gave the name is Mr. Gerapitris. This name has put as a sign any organized attempt to divest public property, in every way of smuggling public funds, in every project to prosecute political opponents, in every move to question the democratic acquis, in every attempt to re-enrol our newest history as those who went bankrupt it. Ladies and gentlemen, and I close with this, the Greek people demand you leave. He actually breaks the trust in your face. He demands that you appeal to elections, because in democracy there are no deadlocks. The Greek people will rewrite a new principle of democracy and progress. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u11	I would like to inform you that there have been two hundred and twenty colleagues. Even if we arrive at 12 o'clock tomorrow, if the time is not respected, not all Members will have spoken. And do not start the voices - particularly those of the Vice-Presidents - that Members of Parliament are speaking if those who are speaking today do not respect the time. After Mr. Kelles, the floor will be given by Mr. Metarakis. Four colleagues will follow and then Mr Scorchos will take the floor. It's on behalf of the government, both. After Mr. Mitarakis is Mr. Mulkiotis, Mr. Hatzidis, Mrs. Jack and Mrs. Pipilis. Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure which we are discussing today is what you are using as a balm, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, for your popular curse. And, of course, you can confirm that yourself in the fact that you have resorted to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency for the validity of the last survey. You have disappointed the world, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, as a government, but it seems that you are still frustrating it as an Opposition. Citizens have a memory and a crisis, and they judge and compare. In the motion of censure you blame the government for managing the pandemic. Are you serious? You who embrace the convoys, are you leaving the government for the management of the pandemic? Can I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when the pandemic started you were protesting about the cancellation of the carnival events decided by the government? You weren't the one who, when the schools were closed, said to open and when the schools were opened, were you saying to close? Didn't you say, when he said the vaccine was coming, that the government is traded in hope? And when the government was talking about vaccination, what did you say? ‘Semiting vaccines’. Apparently you've forgotten all this. However, we have not only succeeded in carrying out the operation "ELEVERIA" through the flagship work of the single digital portal, approaching the European average of vaccinations, which are one of the highest in the world, but we have done to support the HSH of what has not been done in the past ten years. I do not say that as a citizen, I do not say this as a Member, as a doctor who volunteered at the ESS in the big wave of the pandemic last year. We have more than doubled the number of beds in intensive treatments, we have implemented 12 000 hirings of health workers, and in the next few weeks there is the notice for the recruitment of permanent staff of four thousand nurses, seven hundred doctors and a thousand two hundred paramedical and administrative staff. 30% of the assignments in 2022 are sanitary, while total health expenditure reaches 11.7 billion, i.e. 6.3% of GDP. On SYRIZA, do you know how much the expenditure was? It was 3.8 billion, so for simple comparison. That's the reality. I am sure that by ending our pandemic, our government will proceed to a new ERC, modernising organisation, building infrastructure, equipment and attracting the necessary inspiring potential. There are specialities, ladies and gentlemen, which are in a shortage and all the colleagues in hospitals have been overtaken by themselves over the past two years, so I thank them once more from this step of the House. In addition to the health sphere, the government has intervened decisively to regain the impact of the health crisis on the economy by providing 44 billion for the period 2020-2022. This is the third largest support package as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone and the fourth global one. In the field of the economy, the figures are ruthless, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate. The Mitsotakis government is the government that stood side by side of the middle class consistently, making more than promised. We have reduced the tax rate of natural persons from 22% to 9%, the income tax for businesses from 29% to 22%. We have reduced the tax advance for natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55% and for legal persons to 80%. The tax rate for agricultural schemes went to 10%. We have reduced HPAI by 22% and insurance contributions by three units. We have reduced unemployment to the lowest levels since 2010. At the same time, we increased the household income available by 3.5 billion compared to 2019, reducing the inflationary pressure, which is, of course, due to the global recession and the energy crisis caused by the pandemic. That is why the Prime Minister decided to subsidise the electricity bills and the government took the adjustment clause to the agricultural current, and for the month of January it grants 50% of all electricity, oil and gas bills to all consumers and will stand by the citizens for as long as this crisis lasts. The Mitsotakis Government is standing and doing so, of course, on the side of the farmers. The leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development managed by tough negotiations to maintain the EUR 19.3 billion for the new CAP, while in all the other European countries it was cut by an average of 15%. We did our promises by controlling the illegal Greekizations and the illusions of products. Especially for feta were the biggest fines ever imposed and farmers saw the price of sheep's milk rising by 50%. At the same time, we reduced VAT on animal feed from 13% to 6% and the refund of the excise duty on oil for agricultural cooperatives and young farmers was announced in 2022. In particular, in Thessaly with the "January" and the earthquakes, we had a direct mobilisation of the state mechanism, launching a rapid compensation for the affected. So you compare, ladies and gentlemen, this attitude of the Prime Minister and the Government with that of Mr Tsipras in Mandras and Matti. You do not want me to remind you of what you were saying at the time. So do you make a motion of censure on our immigration and national security policy? Between 2015 and 2016 you caused the biggest humanitarian crisis in the country's modern history. Mankind has fallen by 90% compared to 2019, but no one will forget the unacceptable images in Moria, as will your motto that the sea has no borders. Of course the sea has borders and we guard them, protecting our national rights. The government has been aiming at strengthening our national security from the outset by increasing our deterrent power. The twenty-four Raphalis in combination with the refreshments Belaras shield our defenses and offer the worthy members of our Armed Forces overmodern in which they can cause overwhelming blows to anyone who dares to threaten our homeland. We have responded with determination to Turkey's challenges. Our country's position has been considerably upgraded to the regional and international system. The digital state is now more competitive. It plays a leading role in the core of a united Europe, with Kyriakos Mitsotakis shaping the future of European integration, creating a new and brighter age with more opportunities for all and many challenges for the new generation. For all these reasons, the government is coming out stronger than the motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, Kyriakos Mitsotakis governs with a look in the future rather than in the election and at the end of the four-year term citizens will give the New Democracy a new strong mandate of governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u13	Minister Mitakis is called in Stepma. You have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is evidently characterised by political desperation, as society does not respond to the attempt to increase the political climate that is being attempted, while the motion of censure enables the Government to present its overall action, focus on the great challenges of the period, on the efforts we have made and, of course, on the tangible results. Clearly, the debate will remind the Greek people of the disastrous days of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, will demonstrate the deadlocks of the KINAL strategy, while the government will present its realities and our plan for Greece of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, in the migration crisis, the European Union remains strong. According to the latest data from FRONTEX, Europe experienced last year the worst illegal arrival year since 2017 with a 57% increase in flows, while at the same time our country has recovered control and is no longer a main gateway. We managed to reduce the total flows from seventy-two thousand in 2019 to eight thousand seven hundred five in 2021, a 88% reduction, the lower flows of the decade. Reducing flows, speeding up the asylum procedure and taking over the structures by the government has produced results in the impact of the crisis on local communities. First result, the decongestion of our islands. From seventeen thousand, one out of five on the day of the July 2019 elections, today they are on the islands three thousand, one out of ten staying in a hosting structure. The second result was the decongestion of the hinterland, as compared with 2020, domestic residents have fallen by 49%. We've closed down over the last two years eighty-eight structures out of one hundred twenty ones we've received. We disconnected several areas of the country from the migration. Today we are hosting a total of twenty-eight thousand asylum seekers from forty-eight thousand on the day of the elections. The third result is that we are moving forward and continuing to reduce hospitality places in the large cities, Athens and Thessaloniki. Athens received unprecedented pressure from 2015 to 2019 for days SYRIZA and Mayor George Kamine. We are now focusing on decongestion of the vibrations caused by migration in the major cities for decades, with a comprehensive plan in cooperation with the appropriate ministries and institutions, reducing hosting places in Athens and Thessaloniki, giving the Municipality of Athens the homeless's napkin to use it now for the needs of the citizens of this city. In addition, we have implemented our commitments to the local communities by permanentising the reduced VAT on our islands that SYRIZA abolished with the 2015 memorandum, by strengthening local government with compensation fees and by the Solidarity Fund and the creation - as we were committed - of a permanent compensation mechanism for residents affected by hospitality structures. Ladies and gentlemen, our country now has a positive arrival-departure balance in the field of immigration. Since taking over the rule of the country, New Democracy in July 2019 has come to our country as a total of seventy thousand immigrants illegally, and a hundred twenty-thirty-thirty-thirty-thirty-three thousand have left. We were faced with attempts to work on immigration and Europe reacted instantly by supporting Greece. With a strategy of seven points, we have been able to protect with determination the maritime and land borders of our country and thus the borders of the European Union. The Government operates as the shield of Greece and this is the effectiveness in managing the immigration that definitively eradicates the memory of the open borders of 2015. That's all on the inside. At the same time, our country over these years has managed to become a strong interlocutor in the European fora. Our country is at the forefront of negotiating the new pact, but it is at the same time a driving lever for important European initiatives. Last week in Vilnius at a conference with the co-chairman of Greece, sixteen Member States, the majority of the Member States of the European Union signed a joint declaration on the need to strengthen the protection of the common external borders of the European Union. We have therefore forged two strong alliances, on the one hand the alliance of the countries of the South, the 'MED5', with a view to achieving solidarity with the new pact, on the other hand, the alliance of sixteen countries on the need to protect the external borders of the European Union. Within we are moving towards integration of the national reception system, offering decent living conditions, but also a very high sense of security for both the beneficiaries and workers and local communities. The new structures already operate in Samos, Kos and Lero, the new structures in Lesvos, Chios and the upgrading of the prison are being prepared. These new structures are deterring new flows and highlighting the ideological abyss that separates us from SYRIZA. Nowadays, the structures were an unarmed state with unacceptable living and working conditions, and today we have recovered control and inflamed a sense of security and certainty both within structures and local communities. In addition, in view of the needs of the Greek economy, we are creating paths of legal immigration, especially for seasonal workers, and we are continuing to revise the Code of Migration for those who are entitled and those who we need to come and work in our country with rules and legality. At the same time, we rebuild our Ministry with the concentration of all services in the "Kerani" with the new organizational chart, with the five hundred permanent recruitments that have been approved. We have taken back the keys to the structures of the NGOs, we have delimited their action, we have introduced operating regulations. At the same time - very importantly - we have dismantled the Armed Forces from managing migration structures. We proceeded with all procurement with open tenders, with framework agreements, best practices, i.e. European practices, proposing a rational long-term planning and making transparency of the acquis and not a request, abolishing the provisions that the SYRIZA voted in 2016 by way of derogation on the needs of immigration. Of course, all these conventions come to the House in the relevant Standing Committee, which has never been done for days SYRIZA. Because I heard SYRIZA colleagues addressing the issue of bad weather with regard to immigration, I would remind you that in the summer SYRIZA they were raving and in winter they were freezing. We all remember Moria's photos. We had lost human lives from bad weather in hospitality and this year, in 2022, we have no problem with structures either from the pandemic or from bad weather. Greece is now a European example in the management of the issue, as is seen in the international press publications. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's proposal of distrust against what they say, the worst, that is, the government of post-multi-population is being shot down by reality itself, because it is the Government of the New Democracy which not only held the country up in conditions of global uncertainty, but has now put it into a virtuous cycle of development. Greece now emits the image of a healthy economy that brings an international investment interest with interventions that raise the standard of living of its citizens and reduce the tax burden on natural and legal persons, while strengthening the country's deterrent capacity, raising our stature in a neighbourhood of constant challenges. And that will continue to be the case in the next four years in terms of national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u15	Mr. George Mulkiotis is called in Stepma by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, the Greek people have honoured the government with self-reliance, as they promised, among other things, the great reforms, the state of government, good legislation, the resolution of the refugee, the effective management of national issues, the recovery of the economy. But thirty months after the election, Mr Ministers, rather than giving solutions to the burning problems of the economy, the labour market and society, you have failed at all levels. The state's not working. Good lawmaking goes for a walk. In the management of the pandemic you have failed. The economy is deteriorating, businesses and workers are desperate, pensioners find it difficult to survive. Of course you have no plan for how, but neither do you have the crisis prevention and response mechanism, as it is revealed, and you are acknowledging it after all. He suggests the reproach SYRIZA on the other hand, seeing in his leadership the unprecedented social and political disapproval, makes up everything to salvage what he can. Mr. Mitsotakis and Tsipras are attempting to maintain the duplicate for the safety of their survival, as well as the service of their audience. One supports the other through polarization and division, since they are both sides of the same coin. They do so in every way, with particular perseverance and at every opportunity. Previously, they proved it with the intense revealing irritation and embarrassing identical announcements of the New Democracy and SYRIZA regarding the political positions expressed by the President of the Movement of Change - PASOK, Nikos Androulakis. What positions? The positions which are clearly mentioned in political autonomy. The political autonomy of the Change Movement - PASOK means having strategy at the service of your goals rather than others. When you have a strategy to recover the political hegemony, then you join the political reason for it. Why? To achieve political change. The reactions, therefore, of the New Democracy and SYRIZA confirm that the responsible attitude of prolongation is annoying both of us. The government, in apologizing to each Greek house today, for the fiasco of the political management of the foretold with great precision of time determining severe weather conditions for snowfall, abundantly from a god's machine, as shown in the works of the tragedy of the Tibetan cycle, appears SYRIZA and changes the political agenda. How much more hand of assistance from SYRIZA to the government? We have no doubts about the matching of the two alleged gladiators who are struggling to maintain and supply the barren and useless bipolarism. Together, they started in 2010 in the "Indignant" squares. Mr. Mitsotakis, in the fires you apologized. In the floods, you apologized. On snow the other day, I'm sorry. I mean, find out what? Ordinary and serial apology. It seems, however, that we need to remind you that there is also the concept of political responsibility, which is sometimes assumed, which is not taken over either by EUR 2 000, but also by an attempt to replace the judicial crisis. It is clear, however, that for the Government the concept of political responsibility is good in failure. Let us remember that wherever there is responsibility, there are consequences. Consequences for the Government, but unfortunately also consequences for the Greek State in accordance with Article 105 of the Introductory Law of the Civil Code. Unfortunately, for the Greek people, then, the government proves that it is not only right-wing government, but it is also clumsy, because the account, a modern effective governance, has been over-reached, but it has been convicted and self-determination. Why have the regulatory decisions of Law 4662/2020 not yet been adopted in which the famous national crisis management and risk management mechanism has been set up, which is largely inactive? When will there finally be a single centre for the design, coordination and management of all natural disasters fully functional, with upgraded and updated civil protection plans, so that the embarrassing images of the previous days can be eradicated from the memory of all of us? Where were the civil protection coordination body provided and existing in the previous days of the snow? Was there? Finally, the country cannot be in the air and only in the plans. We really need to return a page and confirm its position on the map of healthy, prosperous and advanced countries in the world. Mr President-in-Office, I understand that the coherence and resilience of the government remains stable. But disharmony with society and citizens has hit red, whether you want to understand it or not. Use the pandemic to develop the client state and opacity. You have worked on pandemic with a view to elasticising labour relations and serving specific interests. You did not provide for a special leave in time for the parents of children who are suffering from COVID-19. After a celebration, after asking us in the early January, the schools just opened up and depriving the workers of part of their wages. This is your sensitivity, this is your perception of the welfare state. Of course, you've done a lot more. I mention ten points. Firstly, you imposed the eight-hour abolition of de facto and the liquidation of the time of start-up and termination of work. Secondly, you have introduced the partial or total abolition of overtime payments. Thirdly, you have slashed Law 1264/1982, politely implementing the orders and checks of BSE. Fourthly, you have abolished the absence of a third pension. Fifth, ignore our proposal to introduce a minimum guaranteed monthly income for e-ECA pensioners and to activate a new ECHR. Sixth, digital transformation and so-called revolutionary e-ECA are in the air. Seventhly, you are unable to deal with the problem of the timely and outstanding applications of the main and supplementary pensions of hundreds of thousands of citizens. Eighth, you are editing circulars to reduce to EUR 268 the national pension for all those who receive a pension from the same right and a pension due to death. Ninth, unemployment data is intensely concerned and reliving memories of insolvency of statistical data due to an obvious divergence from the National Statistical Office and the OAED. Tenthly, the minimum wage increase has been exhaustively evaporated by price increases in almost all products. Manual calculations show that each employee loses at least 1/6 of wages to cover increased living costs. It is a social and economic challenge that the huge divergence in the wage levels of Greek workers compared with those of workers in other European countries. And I ask: Since when, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the poverty of citizens and the prevalence of the climate of precariousness and uncertainty on the labour market is an indication of economic and social progress? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: The Change Movement clearly states that it does not trust the government and condemns the failure to manage the pandemic, its economic and social consequences: the accuracy, the energy crisis and the failure of the state, the overconcentration. The motion of censure, tabled by SYRIZA, has also mentioned the inclusion of his party, repeating an unscrupulous political move. The result of the motion of censure does not give your Government the slightest political breath, because Mr. Mitsotakis' political bubble was broken like a child's gum...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u17	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u18	With constant attempts to hide reality, it cannot escape. In response, Mr President, to artificial polarization and the reactionary reason of the New Democracy - SYRIZA, the PASOK - Change Movement continues the only strong, essential and...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u19	Finish, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u20	...with a documented programmatic reason for counter-population that the country needs, in order to provide solutions to the problems of the Greeks, to give them hope and perspective again, because the reverse has begun. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u21	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Hadjivassiliou, Prefecture of Serres, has the floor. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mr Tsipras was led to the decision to table a motion of censure, addressing mainly within his party and clearly for communication reasons. It is clear that society is not listening to you, because you have not been able to articulate a convincing political speech for two and a half years. You see that you lose every day in resonance and that your citizens turn your back. Today you're looking for a salvation board, but you're probably going for a jump to the void. You have stopped talking to society long ago and blame us for complacency. But you refuse to see the truth in the face. Two and a half years now you have not presented a comprehensive political proposal, and because of poor arguments you are simply confined to screaming, sloganing and destructive. Today, at a time of difficulty for the citizens in the bad weather that has taken place, rather than exerting a constructive criticism, you prefer communication tricks. So, with a panic movement, SYRIZA is trying to remind his voters that it is still a deserved opposition. Yes, well, Monday's weather phenomena were unprecedented, and the Ministry of Climate Crisis triggered its mechanism early. The first message from '112', which you did not activate when you were in government, was sent to mobile phones on 10.28' in the morning by a Civil Protection Policy that had neither a building infrastructure nor a competent number of executives two years ago. Yes, there have been failures, yes, there have been mistakes and the Prime Minister himself declared it, giving the signal of a government that assumes its responsibilities and proves how different it is from that of SYRIZA. We are not saying "All I did right", we are not saying "I am looking to find great mistakes, but I can't find them, I can't find them", and we are not directing meetings about the show at night after an unspeakable tragedy. The Government of New Democracy does not mock citizens, nor does it hesitate to admit mistakes and correct them. He is aware of the systemic weaknesses of the decades and is struggling to overthrow them. I will not go into SYRIZA's works and days. Besides, citizens know. Every day, however, people whisper a phrase: 'What if...'. And you, instead of self-criticism, are asking that, as you call it, the worse government that the place has known, this government that has kept society up from the very first moment of the pandemic. The ESS was reinforced by fourteen thousand executives, health expenditures amounted to 5.3 billion, and IF beds amounted to 3,3 billion. The private sector was recruited when and where necessary the vaccination operation was set up exemplary. And SYRIZA defends one place one day and then vice versa. In November 2020, Mr Tsipras accused Kyriakos Mitsotakis of trade in hope, for a non-existent vaccine, of this vaccine that was vaccinated after some time and millions of Greek citizens and in February 2021 he said he accepts the risk of spreading the coronary from the demonstrations. In order not to remember, of course, the statements made by your top officials, who have closed the eye to the anti-vaccinants every day, but also to vote against the provisions that are crucial to the pandemic, because you have voted against the requirement for health workers, for the over sixty, you have voted against the strict fines for those who have fake vaccination certificates, but also for parents - negative ones who do not send young children to school. You! In the economy you blame a government that supported workers and businesses of EUR 43 billion, which took measures of EUR 1,75 billion for the energy crisis and which will continue to take more for as long as necessary, which supports the middle-class, which you have exterminated, and the weak, the government that achieved in the crisis growth of 7%, which reduced taxes, unemployment and brought investments, precisely this government that will increase the minimum wage again in May, the government that unlocked all major infrastructure projects in the country and brought the digital revolution to a record time. You're talking about Mitsotakis status. Well, it is courageous to present SYRIZA as a defender of the rule of law! From "NOVARTIS" and the joints of power, until the reduction of sentences for violent crimes, our difference is very obvious in how we understand the quality of democracy. You who have tried to check the information with various alchemys, are talking today about authoritarianism and media control. You have done the same in the country's foreign policy. In the last two and a half years Greece has become a reliable interlocutor internationally. We have successfully managed the migration, but also the unprecedented crisis caused by Evros. We agreed on maritime zones with Italy and Egypt. We are part of the problem solution, proving every day that our country is a security provider in our neighborhood. We also concluded important defensive agreements as an impediment to Turkish reform, with the top, of course, the Greek-French agreement, the one that opened the way to the acquisition of modern aircraft and warships for our country. And what did you do? You've been across again, fortified by obsessed and ideologies. Too bad for the country, a pity for the Greek people who stand traditionally united against anyone who questions their national sovereignty! As for KINAL, he's in a search phase. So we urge you, too, to decide where you want to go first and above all to our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government implements its programme despite the constant crises that have arisen, invests in experience, exploits opportunities and always maximizes the benefit, because unlike you, it speaks daily with society, it dissipates and gives solutions, it is doing better today and is working hard for tomorrow with a plan, with care for everyone and for all, it continues on the path of bold cuts, prosperity and development, with the support of society and the productive forces of the country. For all these reasons we are voting against your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u23	Well done! Mrs Theodora Jakri, Member of the SYRIZA, is called at Step. Mrs Pipilis will then be given the floor, and immediately thereafter the Minister of State, Mr Scorchos. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, once again you have failed miserably in real life, but you have done well in demagogic manipulation. Every time you burn, drown or sink into chaos throughout the country, you believe that you clean it up with a new embarrassing survey. Of course, you understand that the Greek people have taken you and that you are now counting for days. It is not otherwise explained that your study of showing the Prime Minister and the entire government as the big national capital of the country despite having failed miserably. You are also making the ridiculous argument, of course, let me say that despite the great catastrophes and chaos caused by your government's failure, we were not dead. And the hundred ten deaths of the pandemic of your government incapacitated what exactly are they? Every day the equivalent of a village is lost, and you claim that everything is going well and that the country is moving forward and making you a successful government. Really, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how do you expect it to be a failed government? What, then, do you expect to do to confess before the Greek people that you have clearly intercepted their vote with false and fat words and that you are a government of scorpoise that cannot afford the government role of the coordinator of the Ministries? Of course, you've burned the country off into apnea conditions, you've immersed hundreds of thousands of housewives in the dark of a simple snowfall, which you've certainly known for days. And of course, direct assignments keep well, but they only catch a place in the pockets of your political friends. Yesterday the Prime Minister visited the President of the Republic, Mr Sakellaropoulos, and told us that we should learn from crisis management. Really? What exactly did you learn from the management of this crisis and from the previous ones? What exactly did you not know until Sunday when the salt tanks were produced in the center of Athens and you ruled out the whole country for a whole week to deal with a simple snowfall? What was it that you didn't know and that huge catastrophe had to happen to find out? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I know you can't stand anywhere, you're in panic and you're only trying to manage these gruesome days that the Greek people are spending. I invite you here and now to stand before the Greek people and to tell him how much these polls are costing you are allegedly presenting the Change Movement equal to the Party of Officers' Response. How much exactly do they cost? Does it cost 5,000 or 10,000, Prime Ministers? We must bring here Mr. Gerakis who manages all these issues from the Maximou Palace to tell us exactly where he finds these amazing public-private companies, so that we too can find one to show Mr. Velopoulos' party ten points above New Democracy. Aren't you ashamed, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? Is that the democratic spirit? Are these the democratic institutions of a modern democratic country? Even the people of the Change Movement have not even commented on this shameful democratic manipulation, because if they believed it they would also ask for elections, but they do not. Even the same ones laugh at these polls with which you are trying to present a small party of counter-population equal to the Civic Opposition for reasons which, of course, are obvious and you know very well. This amazing government term of two and a half years holds another "bads" to Greek citizens, to those who have been burned and to those who have drowned and to all Greek citizens. You have managed to make a kind of luxury electricity by ranking our country in the first triad of countries with the most expensive electricity prices in Europe. However, Mr Mitsotakis' magical hand has not only touched this economic aspect. We had already begun to take the record of food accuracy and generally to anything that a popular household needs to make the month out. And when, dear friends and friends, your dear friends, i.e. the canalarchs, the pollsters and the great financial interests, will open the sewer's cap and the whole stench of your government will appear, from the economic scandals and the manipulation of justice, until the government's failure and return to the country in real emergencies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also look at the pandemic issue which has reached you all this far. The government is accused of many: incomplete preparation, amnesty, direct assignments even for the "Great Walk", false about the ITHs, authoritarian arrangements within quarantine, political selfishness and targeting of political opponents in the theoretically supposedly national theme of pandemic, with the most characteristic case being the rejection not only of the proposal for a common health policy and of the Minister of Common Confidence, but to address Mr. Tsipras with propaganda. So far you were hiding behind the hope of the vaccine that would provide a solution and behind the comparisons with countries that had been badly struck in the initial surprise of the pandemic and, of course, behind the propaganda with the two quarantines that said: "Fortunately, it was not SYRIZA because we would have been even worse." But what's changed now? Of course, the objective elements have changed. Mortality runs at a hundred and seven dead a day and on a weekly basis with seven hundred fifty dead a week - they are absolutely unprecedented - with a previous record of seventy seven dead by 2 December 2020. Let me remind you that the pandemic pandemic record was recorded exactly in the month that you once again celebrated the end. It is obvious that the current month will be the worst of the two-year pandemic, leaving the second worst last month in December, with two thousand six hundred and thirty-three casualties. You see contempt that in the two months of December - January death will touch the five and a half thousand dead. Indeed, the Minister for Labour has claimed that we are on the European average, adding to the blow of initial surprise in Italy, Spain and France. The enormous mortality, however, occurs in our country after the absolute adequacy of the vaccines that occurred in June 2021. So we've still got 11 and a half thousand dead since then, that is, after the vaccine. So in November we did not just reach the European Union's average, but we have exceeded it a lot. In particular, Mr Hatzidakis, the Eurozone of three hundred forty-forty-one million has six hundred two thousand dead, otherwise a thousand eight hundred two dead per million. So you know, gentlemen, "We live in Europe", how many do we, Greece? We have two thousand two hundred and two dead per million, 20% more than the hard hit countries, not two years after the vaccine was adequacy, but from the beginning, when Mr Mitsotakis said about the Italians that they have not colluded to bury their dead. And I have not heard any apology about how you have applied since the spring the policy of immunity of the herd, despite the fact that Mr Tsiodra has warned you from the step of the Athens Academy in the most official way. You have not only ignored his missing study, but also his warning about a risk of a Chilean syndrome. You delivered the country to the "do not save" who occupied the remodeling even the Ministry of Health, even as "carers" of Maximos. You saw them take no serious measures from Christmas, causing a world dispersal record of eight hundred and fifty thousand cases within a month of Christmas Eve. And when the wave went out, the obsessed Mrs. Keramea rekindled it, not postponing the opening of the schools for a week. Today the slowing down of cases is solely a task of Ms. Kerameos. Today scientists wish it had been closed because of bad weather the beneficial effect Mrs Keramos has prevented. Ladies and gentlemen, with the adoption of the herd's immunity policy, the game has changed...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u25	Mrs. Jackie, finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, just a moment to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u27	No, Mrs. Jackie, there's no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u28	I'll be done. The fact that you are no longer blamed by your voters for smallness and self-interest, but also for consciousness...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u29	I've left you a minute, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u30	... which lead to their loss. You're going to leave in sickness and death, just like Trump left in America. As you can see, you will be lured into fleeing first of all by those who applaud Mr. Vorides in this Chamber to claim that no value has any more to talk about the victims of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u31	Mrs. Jackrey, respect your own colleagues too. Mrs Pipilis has the floor, and immediately after that, Minister Scorchos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. The apologies of Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the assumption of the problems that have been created, our apology and acceptance for the problems that have been badly created, does not mean that we do not owe thanks to the staff of the Fire Service and their crucial intervention in seven hundred and forty-five transfers of people to a safe place and a hundred transfers of people for dialysis or medical care. We owe thanks both to ELAS and the four thousand policemen for their assistance, but also to the officials of the Armed Forces, the volunteers, the workers, the technicians of the municipalities and the DEDEN, because they are also part of the state and we must not forget it. But thanks above all to the President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras, for the great gift he has given us to present a motion of distrust to the government, because it gives us the glorious opportunity to unfold our own successes and remind the Greek people, for example, of what he said angered and angry President of SYRIZA today. Mr. Tsipras, on 17-2-2021, one day after "Medea", said: "You have reached the point of closing the national road on your own, preventatively. But what kind of intelligent move was that?’ You were mentioned, Mr Chardalia and Mr Chrysochidis, who remember that the highway was closed as a precaution. You still haven't decided exactly what you want. We're closing schools. Why do we close schools? We're not shutting down the schools. Why don't we shut down the schools? The President, then, of the Officerial Reconciliation, tabled a motion of censure on the grounds that it is the worst government the place has ever known. People laugh, of course. He did not have time to read the translation from English from the meeting just on the same day of Prime Minister at the Maximos Mansion as the representative of JP MORGAN's colossus, which announced the huge acquisition of the Greek company by 49% compared with 1.7 billion euros. Proof also of Mr. Tsipras that we are the worst government is the fact that in just two and a half years the government policy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made the Greek economy globally stable and reliable. "Get away," said Mr. Tsipras, "because you have cost and continue to cost a lot to the Greek people not only in money". You must be ashamed to say this, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you who have charged with your unnecessary memorandum of 100 billion Greece in just one day. You say that it costs this government, while among other things the investments of MICROSOT, PFIZER, AMAZON, the Recovery Fund with 30.5 billion. And I would remind you that the Greek Government was the first to submit an excellent programme to the Commission and it was accepted from the first. Remember, since Mr Pierracakis is here, that we have saved from his government policy and the other ministries that collaborated seventy-five thousand hours of travel involving suffering and waiting in queues for the benefit of the Greek citizens, because the digital dating with thousands of transactions with public services and other bodies was ensured. We now go to the misery of "go, because you have cost and continue to cost the Greek people a great deal not only in money, but also in human lives". But do you dare talk about the dead from Eye and Mandra? The dead of natural disasters and the hundreds are your only result, and don't cause us to remind you all the time. Dead of pandemic, then. We are mourning many dead for our small country, but it has been explained from the outset by epidemiological scientists, global scientists, our own scientists that, firstly, despite the support of staff, beds and cooperation with private individuals in the ERR for the well-known reasons, there has been a real invasion of thousands of unvaccinant people who have insisted to date, although they are part of sensitive and vulnerable groups, not to be vaccinated. And secondly, you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have to acknowledge that many of them have listened like your former Minister of Health, who has offered them an alternative by selling medicine and medicine for cows. Not to say that they arrested SYRIZA's party as young indignant you went with banners and supported the jury nurses and doctors who violated their scientific logic and world logic. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has closed an inexistent group, the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Just in September, the Ministry did. In three months it was logical to have malfunctions. I'm sure it's going to end up with a man or woman's authority to save us more from the responsibilities. I have not heard you - and especially KINAL, for once again beginning with PASOK - for local government to strengthen it. Mr. Petsas strengthened them for the fires of summer, and I don't know how much and we've seen the results. At some point society wants sanctions for those who have been responsible, but sanctions also for elected local and other self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, what's the turn?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u34	I've given it to you, Mr. Mamulaki. Mr. Scortsos will take the floor, and then it is Mr. Marinos, Mr. Theocharis, you, Mr. Bubas, Mrs. Adamopoulou. The fifth cycle is closed and Mr. Pierracakis will be given the floor. Mr. Scorchos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with an appeal. The image of the House that its members are interacting with, unleashing isotopes and deceptive accusations as if the adversary faction to be enemies of our own country is personal and I believe in the majority of citizens unbearablely annoying. It is annoying because it produces corrosive acidity, toxicity and suspicion, that is to say, phenomena that we have suffered historically as a society and which must cease to be the dominant model of our political speech very simply because they are de facto treaty of non-convergence and non-conscious in the absolutely basic and elementary. All they manage is to reproduce themselves as negative behaviours outside the House and ultimately to split, to scoop and take us all back and forth. So let's start off from what unites us and is capable of taking us more forward and higher. I am sure that we all love Greece here, we all share the same anxiety for our country to go better, we all believe in democracy and we are democrats. These assumptions must be unnegotiable so that we can enter a good dialogue in order to also form a social climate of consensus and confidence in the political system as a whole. With these initial thoughts, then, I am also on the subject of the debate being held. The motion of distrust against the government is not a moment of weakness or defence for the government's majority, on the contrary, it is a moment of weakness and extraterritoriality of the SYRIZA's internal crisis, which feels to be publicly threatened by the KINAL. In any case, we see it as an inalienable constitutional right to counter-population, and that is why it is a moment of democratic accountability. This motion of censure is an opportunity to assess whether there is, in fact, a parliamentary or social disparity with the 2019 election result. We don't think there's any. It is, at the same time, an opportunity to put forward arguments, with the slightest reason, the results of our work in the last two and a half years and, on the other hand, to highlight the contradictions and gaps in the proposal and the criticism of counter-population. So I start from a due, sincere confession that is not pretextual and does not prejudice it because it produces a new necessary political morality that has been missing in previous years. What we have been through last week at the level of our civil protection has been afflicted and unjustified by the efforts we have made in this area, which is why we owe an apology to our fellow citizens who have been afflicted, but also a thank you to all state officials from the Armed Forces, from the Police, from the Firefighting, the Civil Protection, the OTA, the ODA, all officials who have been fighting for five days to prevent the worst and have done so. I'm sorry. It's not a tool to avoid or disguise responsibility. It's an honest recognition of what's not done well. As we should not look for the bravo for what we do well, when we do our work well, so we should not hide behind our finger or others when we do not do well. We apologise, because we recognize and know at the same time that the core of the state mission lies in the security of the citizens and this feeling of security has been shaken because of the unprecedented bad weather, but it has not been broken down. Fortunately, we didn't have heavy injuries. Fortunately, we have not lost human lives, and this thanks to the coordinated intervention of the state, and I cannot understand the contradiction in the criticism of the Anti-Population that is ludicrous to the pandemic's dead, but considers it not important that we do not have any losses to natural disasters. It is hypocrisy and inappropriate in human life. This bad weather leaves behind only the suffering and fortunately not permanent damage to the natural or urban environment. We apologise for how much work has still to be done in the field of cooperation and preparation of the co-responsible bodies. Co-operation and prevention are not our most powerful elements. Unfortunately, it is not our culture. We didn't teach her in school. It is this government that has introduced such lessons in primary and secondary education, which is why time is needed, education, perseverance, to obtain it. It must step on clear and strict procedures, on continuous exercises with simulations in the field between all involved operators, early programming, good equipment, competent executives. We apologise because, yes, the bad weather we have experienced was not at all common for the historical climatic data of the Lefkanopedian. It is also another proof of the extremist phenomena caused by the climate crisis. Every citizen understands that. However, this cannot be - and it is not - an excuse. We have received Civil Protection as a subordinated office, a deported General Secretariat in an inappropriate building on the Evangelism Street and in its place, for these very reasons, we have created a Ministry, the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. We have secured EUR 1.7 billion from the Recovery Fund for upgrading infrastructure, equipment, education through the Fund. However, it is utopian to believe that we can build new structures, processes, executives, actually create a new state in just two years, and at the same time we are in the middle of unprecedented crises, without a recent historical precedent. These changes require at least eight years of work and horizon to root in. We apologise, finally, because we must all be better at dealing with threats that endanger human life, more responsible, more accurate, all of us more cooperative. To understand that we are living in an environment with new emerging hybrid threats and that we should ultimately, if we want to be safe, adopt as a base scenario in our everyday lives the worst predictive scenario, even if this is not confirmed, without losing our confidence in the state, asking us to stay at home for our security, but ultimately bad weather is not coming or lighter than expected. The apologies are therefore a headline for self-awareness and correction. Without her we can't go down. And when it is sincere and specific, not pretext and vague, it is more important than resignation or replacement. Because it recognises the imperfection of human nature, it recognises that mistake and failure are part of human evolution and thus offers, beyond the roadmap for improving what has been wrong, the opportunity to change. That is why it is a useful pedagogical model for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in this new threat environment a radical reorganisation of the state is needed to deal with them. The state as a security mechanism, as a welfare mechanism, as a redistribution mechanism, comes back to support, on the one hand, the necessary and delayed integration of our country into the global economy and international production chains and, on the other, the response of the threats to the climate crisis. The founding law of the government, the law on the final state, responds precisely to these needs, but also to the passions of the public administration. So those who find the opportunity to attack or undermine the ultimate state with characterisations, such as 'final mess', either have not understood the functioning of the state of staff or, worse still, want to turn us back many years, in the state that led us to the big debt crisis in 2010, a state where every ministry did what it wanted, without control and accountability, without any annual planning and accountability, without any transparency. There is, therefore, a deep misunderstanding or distortion about the role of an executive state that needs to be corrected. Finally, it does not mean over-concentration of responsibilities in the face of the Prime Minister and the staff. Finally, it means the opposite, that we are leaving the hydro-headed state of the past, which the right does not know what the left is doing, from the central state that had castrated public administration and state officials, and that we are going to a new model, where the government at the highest level sets annual and long-term strategic targets, which it entrusts to the responsible implementers and then controls them for the results they bring. And not to speak theoretically, to give you some examples. Finally, it is the monthly Ministerial Council, which is becoming outrageous, when there were governments whose cabinets had only met two or three times. Ultimately, the state is the annual government action plan of each ministry that is publicly posted, approved by the Ministerial Council and controlled by citizens and public opinion, the media in terms of its implementation. The ultimate state is the broad codification and simplification of legislation, so that we can have better public administration and better justice. An ultimate state is the central annual planning of recruitments by the Ministry of Interior by Ministry, based on real, objective and non-real needs of staff. Finally, the state is the collection of public administration with secretaries for service, selected by the AACC, but also the decentralisation of signatures and responsibilities by the ministerial offices to the general directors of the public administration. Finally, it is the long-term strategic development plan "Greece 2.0", which has received credit from the European Commission for the Recovery Fund, the new NSRF, which has all provided public investment of EUR 80 billion together for the next six years. The ultimate state is the necessary new map for hospitals, universities, for courts, on the basis of public interests, on the basis of the criteria of public interest, on the efficiency and on the proper management and use of the available resources, so that we can stop planning public policies with customer or closely localist criteria. Finally, it is our vaccination campaign, thanks to which we managed to vacate 84% of the adult citizens of the country, despite the undermining of Anti-Population, and to re-establish the public. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, it is a state that care is taken to remove all sorts of inequalities in our country and to implement horizontal action plans for equality, family support, the treatment of demographics, people with disabilities, young people, LGBTIs, for all citizens. Finally, it is the consolidation of political stability, stable electoral cycles and institutional regularity in a country where institutions were rampant in the past and political predictability unknown. The most reliable indicator to evaluate ourselves is trying at times to see us with the eyes of others. What do our European partners think of Greece these two years? What is the view of international investors compared to previous years? So the same week, when we lived through this all-time bad weather, which reminded us of what needs to be corrected in the state, one of the largest banks in the world, JP MORGAN, has announced its decision to invest more than EUR 1 billion in the Greek economy, in Greek minds, in a innovative Greek company, "VIVA", which started as a small start up and within a few years has conquered Europe and the world in the field of digital transactions, a company that managed to grow up and become an international company. This international banking colossus sees something in our country, it sees something in this government and in its economic policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u36	Slow down, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u37	Of course, Mr President. He sees something in people, in our citizens. This something has led to this important business decision. Perhaps he sees the same things that he saw before it and other business colossians who took the same decision - MICROSOT, AMAZON, PFIZER, DEUTSCHE TELECOM - and make the same investment off the ground in our country. What they see is a government that is trying to change the state and the economy, which is trying to create an attractive business environment, with fewer obstacles, greater legal certainty, which creates better paid jobs, which rapidly digitizes the public and reduces bureaucracy, which implements one of the most advanced policies to move to a low- or zero-carbon economy and is doing so quickly, despite enormous adversities. They see a government that is not bent on the difficulties that are not being immobilised but learns from them. And that's how we're going to keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u38	Until Stepma, Mr. Marinos, has asked to make use of one of the three trillions that Mr. Ragus has had the right today. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor - from your position - for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Scorcho, the ultimate state for the Greek people and not the government propaganda is Katahakis yesterday. Finally, it's the last Marathon Avenue. Finally, it is the Attica Street and the thousands of people trapped in it. I wouldn't take the floor to answer that. After all, in fact everything you said, Mr Scorcho, is the core of our motion of censure. It is the essence of the motion of censure which is voted for by all parties in opposition. But it is indeed an opportunity for you more, Mr Scorcho, to see the Greek Parliament if you mean even a little more than you said before. I will ask you - and please note - three very specific questions, to give you the opportunity to answer and see what you have said before. First question. According to what the news website ieidiseis.gr says today, is it true that you as Minister of State, as Minister of State, and Mr Triantopoulos, State Secretary to the Prime Minister, participated in the preparatory meetings that took place in preparation for the state mechanism in the light of the upcoming snow weather? And so, is it true that, apart from Mr Stylianides, two of Mr Mitsotakis' chosen executives in the Maximos Mansion, Mr Mitsotakis himself was present at these meetings? Question two. Is it true, Mr Scorcho, or not, that in these meetings the company 'ATTIC LEO' asked you to prevent the transit of trucks from the Attica Road and all and universally heavy vehicles from passing? Is that true, yes or no? Third question. Have practically been kept at these meetings? And will you give it to me, Mr Scorcho, these minutes directly to the public? Or are you going to force us on these Minutes as well as on the minutes we have asked for in the context of a committee of inquiry on the Peca list, to resort to justice to get them? And we'll get them, Mr. Scorcho. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Arabatzis, you're using your triple. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u42	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u43	You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u44	I'll be much shorter than the three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u45	Regardless of this, you use.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance, finally a state is 'not another Mandra'. It is an 'no more Eye' state. And it goes a great deal when during your administration we have had victims and the well-known tragic situation that we have all experienced from the murderous fires to ask for an unregulated record of meetings, which, of course, a government of serious, consistent, prudent, programmed is the least it has and records. No, therefore, lessons about a state by the people who, with their works and their days, destroyed what existed in that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Ragossi, you don't discover the powder. A press release mentioning which government officials took part in the meeting. I obviously participated, as I participated in too many meetings of my role. From there on, the company didn't ask. And what was agreed between the traffic, the civil protection and all the concessionaires was what was implemented and implemented. And it was correctly applied on the highway, where the company was mobilised in time and closed as the road should be, but it was not implemented under the responsibility of the company on Attica Road. As far as the Minutes are concerned, I do not know if they exist. But there's been detailed information that you can see. There has been absolutely nothing to hide in relation to what has been shared in this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with Mr. George Marino from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The outcome of the major economic groups referred to by Mr Scortsos aims to increase their profitability by pressing on this terrible regime of overthrowing labour rights, lowering wages, the intensity of exploitation opened by all governments and strengthening the Government of New Democracy, Mr Scorcho. This is the main issue, this farm regime, the basis of the growing class struggle that you are trying to cover up, hide, a society with a thousand two problems, with the rich and the poor, with those who are deserving and with those who have been convicted of unemployment, that it is a family. But this deception has been resolutely tackled, Mr Scorcho, by workers all these years. The tragic events experienced by the people in Attica, Evia and other regions from an anticipated bad weather sit on the stool of the accused New Democracy government and its anti-population policy, but also on the policy of the former governments, which have a large share of responsibility for the misery, shortcomings and deterioration of the necessary state infrastructure. The urban state, which is behind the name 'final', is a class tool, an anti-grassant tool, leaves the people intact, because it serves the interests of capital, implements the European Union's strategy, which tackles people's needs as a cost. This is evidence of the experience of Evia, which was devastated during the summer, and then flooded, blocked and frozen with snow, closing the roads and stopping the electricity supply. The victims of northern Evia have not even received these low compensations for previous disasters. And the government is advertising the so-called'reconstruction', which billions of euros pay for big money. Unemployment, accuracy are also seen in Central Greece. Public health structures are suffering from long years of shortages. Workers in industrial zones are faced with overtime middle-age working. LARCO's workers are against the design of the New Democracy for selling or closing, depreciating a strategically important operation that marks all governments. Overall, the two-party fight we live in the Parliament cannot hide the long-term responsibilities of the New Democracy, the PASOK and SYRIZA, their strategic partnership. They signed the Memorandums that hit the people together. They voted in favour of the Recovery Fund and the coarse billion in the monopolies of the green and digital economy. They granted the roads and other infrastructures to the economic groups. They are responsible for trade and under-financing health, welfare, education, overthrowing of insurance and labour rights, reducing wages and pensions. They support the dangerous plans of the United States, NATO and the European Union. It is imperative that the people move away from the painful anticipation of the "savior" through the rotation of the governments of capital, turn their anger into mass action, collide with the JRC, strengthen their claimive struggle for every problem, build its alliance and go to the counter-attack to overthrow capitalist barbarism, to live in a society without exploitation, poverty and unemployment, with stable work, decent wages and pensions, free social services, modern infrastructure, live peacefully with neighboring people. This need also highlights the foreign policy issues that in practice have been formed by all governments, for the strategic upgrading and aggressive objectives of the bourgeoisie, involving the country in great adventures and the people in great dangers. The situation is boiling. The confrontation of the Americans, NATO and the European Union with Russia is intensified in the field of Ukraine. The government has been thrown into the neck to dangerous competitions, the conflict that can take unforeseen proportions. It has the American bases in Souda, Alexandroupolis, Larissa, Stefanovicio, which are leading in military exercises to surround Russia. SYRIZA can't hide behind his finger. He prepared agreements on US bases through strategic dialogue with the Americans and is accountable. The government, together with the other parties, deposited the cooperation with Egypt and Israel that is being murdered in Palestine. You tried to deceive the people for the EastMed energy pipeline, praising the role of the Americans and the United States withdrew their support, framed the pipeline as a source of tension in the region and adapted their energy choices, opening the way to the improvement of American-Turkish relations. Because they need Turkey in NATO and the Ukrainian front. The government signed the aggressive Greek-French agreement on the naval needs and not on the country's defence. He is preparing to send military departments to Sahel, Africa, with dramatic consequences. He sent Patriot troops and missiles to Saudi Arabia, involving the country on war fronts. In practice, the myth has been destroyed that the US, NATO and the European Union are a country's shield. This is demonstrated by the questioning of borders, the increasing claims through the trade in the Turkish bourgeoisie with your American and European allies, who face Turkey as a strong strategic partner. Your allies are accomplices to the tragedy of Cyprus, the maintenance of the occupation and the partition of the island. All governments have taken part in the bazaars set up by the urban ranks and Euro-Atlantic consulates for the consideration of the Aegean, the Eastern Mediterranean, for the benefit of the energy groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u52	I shall conclude, Mr President. The political proposal, the positions of the JRC, are a force of hope for the people in the struggle, the release of imperialist designs, the eruption of the US bases, the release from NATO and the European Union, so that people can live in an environment of mutual trust and benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Theocharis Theocharis from New Democracy has the floor now and immediately after Mr Mamoulakis Charalambos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, if I started my position in the debate on the motion of censure, pointing out that I cannot see any sense in the SYRIZA initiative - since it is the first to withdraw the elections, it is a given one - I am afraid that I would be heard desperately. Because we are all now aware that the only form of consistency that Mr Tsipras and his MPs manifests is in terms of irrationality. But it's not just absurd. It is necessary for Mr. Tsipras to be accused of the Government of New Democracy for mismanagement of a crisis, such as the unprecedented snowfall a few days ago. It is necessary for the Prime Minister to put forward a motion of censure which, while our fellow citizens were burning alive in Matti, gave a show about cameras, asking when the planes are flying. SYRIZA needs a tempered and arrogant arrogant extremism to demand that power be granted to him again, following the disastrous consequences of governance under Mr. Tsipras, after Mandra, Mati, following the criminal experiments of 2015 that cost the Greek people billions, the lies and the systematic misledness of the Greek people. It takes a straitjacket to move our fingers, those responsible for the international turbulence of the country abroad, for the tax elimination of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the defeated foreign policy and so many others. And what's behind this nerve? Of course, Mr. Tsipras' desperation is hidden. He's being pressed inside, pressed in public. The people remind them on every occasion that they consider him incapable of ruling, at close to 60%. So it is partly understandable to resort to the motion of censure. It is one of the latest opportunities that Mr Tsipras will have to pretend to have the power to provoke political developments. His problem, however, is not the inner - party fright. The problem of Mr. Tsipras is not even that the Greek people have understood since 2019 that SYRIZA has never been worth ruling. The problem is that the people understand that they are not worthy or even to exercise opposition. Management of the pandemic by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has received praise from the international community and is proven above the average and even better than much stronger states from us. SYRIZA blames us on one hand for closing the focus, the other for opening schools, etc. For the management of the snow, the Prime Minister had the power and the courage to apologize to the Greeks. The schools opened up and the cases fell. Where's the apology you guys owed here? Instead, we still hear the same lies about the opening up of schools, we heard them from Mrs Jackson and others here. You have no moral right to judge the Prime Minister's apologies when you have never asked for a single apology. Obviously, there are so many areas that SYRIZA has caused huge moral damage over his days as government, that it makes no sense to be exhaustive. Nevertheless, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you as a sign of SYRIZA's ethos of the systematic war that it waged against Greek tourism in the middle of a pandemic, that is to say, the country. I have, of course, a personal experience here. Nor do I remember how many times SYRIZA changed positions and opinions in relation to the opening of Greek tourism, whether it was right or wrong to accept visitors from abroad in the middle of a pandemic. I would like to remind you that Greece has received global prizes as a model for managing the health crisis in the tourism sector and at the initiative of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis the European Union has adopted the green digital certificate, which you have fought a rabies certificate. But as much as SYRIZA's micropsy was, I feel proud of the amazing course of Greek tourism in 2021. Despite extremely difficult conditions, with systematic work by both the Ministry and the EOT and the private sector, we have shown that Greek tourism knows how to win battles and give them unity, coordination and success. We highlighted Greece in a number of a travel destination in the Mediterranean region and in southern Europe and even beyond. The numbers now speak for themselves. In 2021 Greece hosted fourteen million tourists, who left our country with an incoming currency of more than 10.5 billion euros. In other words, during the hardest time Greece of effort, of seriousness, of responsibility has grown. But from the recent bad weather, which yes, there have been mistakes and we have had the courage to recognize, to admit, to apologise, but above all to learn, to go ahead, to become better, the difference of morality is obvious. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis is serving and is envisioned. It is this Greece which deserves the Greek people, who knows very well how to appreciate the reform effort, the well-being horizons that our investment policy opens, the ones you were fighting for five years, for the middle-class, the one that you ended five years, and even the use of the extraordinary resources from the Recovery Fund, what you used to say in the European Union and what you said either there is or will not exist or that it is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the motion of censure is fiasco and operetta is evidenced by the fact that in the elections you are asking for to be held you have no alternative proposal for governance. For three years you have said 'no' all morning and 'no' to their opposites this afternoon. Is that how you're going to go to elections? In the morning, you'd blame us for shutting down the schools and telling us why you didn't turn off the entire public? Is this a serious and substantial opposition logic? The citizens want a Greece that looks high, which changes, which is better, a Greece that only the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis can make reality, a Greece that is digital, green and pro-developmental, the one that we are building from July 2019, which we will continue to build until the elections of 2023 and which I am sure with the choice of the Greek people we will continue to build after the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u55	Thank you too, Mr Theochari, for keeping time. The reason for Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis from SYRIZA is immediately followed by Mr. Konstantinos Boubas from the Greek Solution. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 the New Democracy made the most unfair use of natural disasters. Support for the media, both at the time and the deeply immoral political attitude of the leadership of the New Democracy in the tragedy in Matti, led it to victory in the 2019 elections. The first bill of the then Government of the New Republic was the so-called ‘draft law on a staffing state’. In fact, we have heard Mr Scorcho defending this legislative initiative. This ultimate state now, in all the Greeks, is a joke, a final ball, which in every appearance, in every political action, fails. A moment ago what did we hear from the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister? We have heard that there is no record of the famous meeting that took place - this has proved to be - between the government officials, Mr Triantopoulos, Mr Skertsos and others, and the officials of the Attica Road for the incredible fiasco that took place on the Attica Road and not just in other legacy arteries in the previous period. Well, clear and clear words: The Minutes now in the House, otherwise it is clear that we have recourse to Greek justice once again, to ask for self-evident. It is incomprehensible that the executive minister of Mr Mitsotakis' final plan and state should not know whether or not there are any minutes at the meeting he took part in. So this model of performance is now living in every mechanism and its everyday life, unfortunately with very unfavourable results. In these two and a half years, the government used the shock that Greek society had suffered during the pandemic. Why? To pass some reactive and neoliberal reform that neither the troika itself nor the twenty-year neoliberal governance that had preceeded in our country could pass. It has achieved every taboo of public administration, every DPO that has remained under public control, every acquis of post-multi-population and every aspect of the welfare state, which has been strengthened in the governance of SYRIZA, now to be targeted. This appalling model of state management was effective in promoting bills by the diverse posters of Maximos and in the absence of knowledge and decision of the ministers, as was due to Greek democracy. This is where we live paradoxical things. We live post-mortem officials to draft bills and simply the ministers as a butler to move to the Greek Parliament for vote, with no knowledge of them many times - we lived in these two and a half years here - the core of the bill they themselves present. So it's totally inappropriate. It is very good, very appropriate and speedy to legislate in favour of specific interests. But this ultimate state was totally inappropriate, when the state had to create, completely inappropriate when the government had finally to strengthen and shield the National Health System, completely inappropriate when the government was called upon to implement its election campaign, it was supposedly a commitment to strengthen the country's civil protection, completely inappropriate when the EGE was called upon to play a central role in the management of the pandemic, completely inappropriate when the Government - we were listening to Mr Theohrah - had to set up a health control mechanism for tourist flows in the middle of a pandemic, completely inappropriate when the country had to create a digital infrastructure that would support the public education system. The list of examples is really without end. So, as the government is sure that any social problem can be solved through the cover-up and control of the media message, the government has begun its term of office in belief in a dogma: it is enough for a press release and a leak to squash and hide everything. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, the applause in the balconies when the ESS was not strengthened at the beginning of the pandemic? Remember crocodile tears about increases in electricity tariffs, one month later, immediately after PPC was privatized? Do you remember the stationed cameras in areas that have suffered natural disasters, and in fact in view of the communication tatarakums have you tried to rob this provision too? A characteristic example of Arkalochori, which even now those who would evacuate the Eye in twenty-five minutes took sixty-eight days to elect homes where our fellow citizens are suffering for so many months. Today the government's credibility is demolished, demolished by a chain of natural disasters. From this struggle to deal with these consequences, Mr Mitsotakis is once again absent. Gentlemen, the government has been weighed, measured and found incomplete. The government's strategic plan, in any case of natural disaster, is always, by the book, the same. Fires, floods, snows, earthquakes? The destruction takes place and we just let the phenomenon fade away, a communication management of human pain and destruction. The cynicism of Mr Mitsotakis touches the limits of constitutional legitimacy, when due to his choices the state is consciously withdrawn from the obligation to do everything it can to protect human life and the property of its citizens. Your Government suffers from a systematic refusal of reality, to the extent that this reality does not concern you and your rich friends. It is also permanent that the calamities we find are due to exogenous events that go beyond our country's limits: the pandemic worldwide. The wave of international dishonesty. The climate crisis, the phenomenon of the time. Indeed. But the question that any elected leadership of our country from here and now will have to face, what is it? ‘What have I done so that we can manage these asymmetrical health threats in the future? What have I done to create a permanent, resilient mechanism for managing the ever more frequent, true, natural disasters? What have I done to prevent the incomes of our fellow citizens from falling apart for the second time in a decade'? You see, seasons change. We're no longer in 2019. It is no longer possible by means of the communication that the government will remove the footprint of its nightmare government from the collective memory of the Greek people. In these two and a half years Greece has stayed with a county less, with twenty-three thousand of our fellow citizens less, with one GDP - I stress this - returning to the levels of 2015, with six - seven DAKOs less, with our incomes shrinking by over 10% for those who luckyed their jobs. Greeks don't deserve to feel like heroes in Hollywood's post-destructive film, alone against pandemic, alone against extreme phenomena, alone against accuracy. And in Greece she does not deserve a government that ignores the great challenges of our time and the need to create resilient institutions and infrastructures. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have dismantled everything, you have considered your state property. You rule with arrogance, vindication, poetry, circumventing freedoms and rights. You have indeed cost the Greek people a great deal of money, which has rightly given you the title of the worst government than the Migration. That is why today's motion of censure is not only timely but also absolutely essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that on the initiative of the President of this House, new safety masks have been built against the pandemic and have been sent to the parties. It's about, I think, at least ten for every colleague. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas has the floor from the Greek Solution and immediately thereafter Mrs. Angeliki Adamopoulos from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Mr President. The masks are good, but at some point the masks should fall, say some truths that hurt. We need to see the Greek society in the face.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u59	We have always told Parliament that truths are true.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, with the vote of confidence that the government is now asking for after the vote of distrust on the part of the Vice-President of the Commission - something that both the Greek Solution and our leader have been calling for for many months now, but we have not had the majority required to do so - the only good thing at some point at the end of this three-day sitting, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, is that we will perhaps see the House a little bit of a tripartite. Because it has been empty for many months and the people have been dissatisfied with the representatives and not representatives of the Greek society, who must be the MPs. There are many who do not do what, not only who did Mark Aurelio say. That's very important. No one's wrong not only when they do something, but it's unfair when they don't do anything. The government today has not done much for what is called society, for what is called social fabric. It has not really made substantial changes to the primary sector. Where are farmers getting low-priced loans? Where is it to change the law on geothermality, which the government is cutting off for the environment, to finally become a renewable energy source and not a mining activity to go to a greenhouse organisation? We attach importance to the Greek Solution to the programme for the agricultural and livestock sectors. Where is it to change the legal framework for small, flexible cooperatives to be able to move around? Where is it that a special code for agricultural oil should be entered, not only for what the Prime Minister and the Government say about the members of the cooperatives, forty-five million, but also for the non-cooperative members? Because farmers cannot be separated from cooperatives and non-cooperatives. It's too much. Where is Mr Georgiadis, who will soon be a producer only on the people's markets and have turned the people's markets, an institution on the Eleftherios Venizelos, into outdoor shopping centres and not to the people's market that will protect non-resident trade, the small producer, which is linked to production, but not to take it as direct sales over 50% which man cannot stand up to today? With a molecule where? Graduate. And where? People's stock exchange with laptop. That's what people see, and it's really gone. Where is Mr. Tsakloglu to give an interpretation of the widow's pensions, which he says will not have retroactive effect? Because it is a blue wing precursor to have retroactive effect in too many bills and amendments it tables. With a ceiling of EUR 384 on the national pension. And that is not a government policy with the fines of EUR 100 for those who do not make the vaccine. Today a pensioner of EUR 387 of the OGA pension, if he pays a fine for the vaccine, twelve days after the pension must be paid for the vaccine. And how much days should they be paid for the infamous tests of 47 euros? There could be an offer - for the three tests I do - a gift. So let's go to the big party. Didn't you know for so long what's going on on the Attica Street? Didn't you know about the contract party? I went to see some evidence about the direct assignments. January 2020 - June 2021 Attica Metro has received direct assignments of 1,4 billion euros. It has even exceeded ministries, such as the Ministry of Information, the Ministry of Tourism and so many others. We have twenty-seven thousand three hundred and fifty-two public contracts, nineteen thousand eight hundred thirty-six directly. L.4782/2021 - 9 March 2021 was voted on - bringing the plaque up from EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000 and going for the direct awards of projects from EUR 20,000 to EUR 60,000. Shouldn't we be concerned about direct assignments? Isn't this a specific oligarch group that's wrinkling all this? Aren't the five pimps still running and running in Greece, which your predecessor and former Prime Minister told Bajractari, Costas Karamanlis? So where are all this so that people can trust that you are mediating? Why is the ultimate purpose of a government what is it? Make the least mistakes and improve citizens' quality of life. We in your Greek Solution made several suggestions in detail and documentary. Some of you copyed them. But you know the biggest mistakes, the university teachers say, they do copy, so be careful enough. Attica Street, the big party in all these consortia that Mr Chrysochoidis as Minister of Transport said of the EUR 53 billion that they will put into their funds. The great Attica Road scandal: Didn't you know that it justifies maintenance on the road 1 million euros when the other consortia justifies up to 70,000 euros? And today he gives these two grand, according to the Prime Minister, crumbs and mocking when this company has more than EUR 1 million every day from the two hundred eighty-eight thousand cars that go through the country's most modern highway, which this white day has turned into a black day? You weaken the satellites with a heterosexualism that you do - and not self-government - and it cannot function, as the core itself, i.e. the Athenian-centric model on the most modern highway otherwise in Greece. With a Mediterranean highway that took place there in the Mediterranean. The Mediterranean Avenue all of a sudden took a trip, because it's Mediterranean and it's closed. That's never happened before. Shall we go to national matters? Should we go to Skopje? We call for a Greek solution for both Eye and Skopje, Mr President of Parliament, to discuss this issue. A few days ago, you do not know that Radef of Bulgaria along with Yotova Iliana sent a piece of paper to the new Prime Minister of Skopje who replaced Zaev, Dimitar Kovachevski and said to him: "Would you respect the Skopje Bulgarians of Macedonian origin in Great Macedonia, Iliden and Pirin, because otherwise we will not help your accession process to join the European Union." And Kovachevsky accepted it and now Bulgarians are making direct rail with the Skopje. They're pulling their ears and we're mocking their ears. There are many more topics on our national issues, which are not here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Listen, Lords of Government, get over it. People have a nervous breakdown. With fines, with a repetition that exists, with all this veil that you have dispersed into Greek society, we cannot be the representatives of a society where at the moment the veil is gone away. People are worried about work. They go out to the labour market today and say 'don't put us on the mark, we won't have time to retire, so we can get more money'. And with the electronic working card, redundancies become easy. Even a small percentage will not be paid by the employer. And slowly the worker don't run to claim it in the courts. You voted for these by law. We've been reacting from the first moment. I cannot talk about the plan 'HRAKLIS' because I do not have the time, with the first residence, which the Greek Solution has denounced what was going on in most of the judiciary schools and the orders given. And then you're talking about upgrading the Judiciary School?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. There are too many issues that need to be looked at, because your time will be too limited, against a structured Athenian-centric model and a parliamentary system that is not close to the world, no matter how we do it. The world is bitter because the unrighteous is the highest good, the good that is not wrong, but nothing will. The point is that you don't want to blame. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too. I would ask that the time be respected, because with time not being limited, there will be colleagues tomorrow who will not speak. Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor, and then the Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Pierracakis, will take the floor. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us say that the motion of censure is not a process to play - it has laughed, not a rope to pull it whenever we want and find a chance to play banners and cockfighting. The motion of censure is a constitutional, democratic choice of our society, which should therefore be activated with vibrant thought and very serious and strict preconditions. That is not what the Constitution expressly says, but the spirit of the Constitution and the self-evident obligation of the representatives of the people to conduct themselves with a sense of responsibility and with a vigilant eye about what is happening in our country. And to make it clearer to say that it is incomprehensible that the situation that the New Democracy Government has led to the country and our fellow citizens, in the worst vortex our homeland experiences in post-political terms, within the depths of a cruel and inhuman real combination - the most cruel and inhuman combination - of health, social and economic crisis. What do we see? We see that the helms of our tested country are the most inappropriate, most reckless, most ineffective and at the same time the most arrogant government could exist. It is really incomprehensible how much the final state of Mr Mitsotakis has failed on a number of critical issues, but the government in general, and I would also ask the government collectively, because the Constitution itself says that you are jointly and collectively responsible for this tragic account. I should also like to mention the news of the bad weather that you had been informed of on the basis of the forecasts of the weather at least ten days ago. The severe weather phenomena lasted about twelve hours and we had human drivers in Attica Street trapped, stricken how many hours without food and water, on the train the same suffering with women pregnant, with children, with elderly people without supplies, without information. And what's up? A handful of responsibilities between the government and the Attica Street. The Attica Road even threw the ball into the drivers who did not have chains and had your courageous MP to go out and say that they must pay fines for the drivers who did not have chains, the drivers who were not informed that day about the closure of the Attica Road and paid the tolls, the well-known tolls of Attica Road. So you gave examinations to a lesson that you had the topics for, a course with open books, and the extent to which you took them is zero. Is it really incomprehensible that you fail, not only in the easy ways, because here we see that you are in the easy way, in the elementary and easy to do, will you not fail? Who would believe that? Obviously, only the ridiculous and insane polls that have set up your slit channels and your party fingers, where you have shown a truly outrageous, outraged and beautiful image of the Prime Minister, dominatingly. It is really outrageous how you go to insult the people's intelligence with the channels that you have literally done, Ministry of Propaganda. How you underestimate the intelligence of the citizens who suffer from all things from you. What to report and what to begin with. Can we talk about the three-digit numbers of dead people every day from COVID? Should we talk about climbing more and more into the list of shame in relation to the number of dead in proportion to the population? Should we talk about the highly dangerous health protocols in schools, which have become the focus of over-transmission, where is '50% plus 1' pan-European originality, when in the rest of Europe, when a student closes the department? You've made little time bombs go home and transmit the virus to already charged people, because you don't want, you were unprepared for tele-education after the first lockdown fiasco with the "scole of age" and the leak of personal data. Nor do you want to pay special purpose compensation to teachers at the same time as the teleworking that would be applied. You do not want to recruit educational staff and you stack children in classes of twenty-five students to become - as I said before - over transmissions of classes, because you do not even want to check other rooms, other spaces to become schoolrooms. Bowl with the PCR tests, a banner with the rapid test, you have put the 47 euro cap on which you celebrated so that private diagnostic centers don't lose, when mayors managed to lower the price by competitions and auctions, and these Turks and Thessaloniki Sikies you targeted them. You also degraded the tests in Cyprus that I have had Chinese and that it is fake, and I have been told that you have secured the complete reliable tests. Bowl and monoclonal antibodies. We have been telling you for so many months to bring them from February as Germany did and you were telling us that they are still at an experimental stage. Mr. Ploris is still coming out - he went out in October - and said that the monoclonals are at an experimental stage. Should we talk about the ITHs, which are in a collapse? Should we talk about doctors who are unskilled in intensive care units and who are also impoverished? You apply dangerous health protocols to hospitals that make them return after a five - day quarantine without even doing tests. You should be ashamed of all this, because you go out publicly and say you learn from your mistakes and move on. He went out to your Member yesterday and said so. Let me tell you how far you're going from your mistakes. What are you going from? How does this look from the hundreds of deaths of COVID? Seems from the economy that has reached the bottom, so that businesses and households gravitate from inflation, which in Genoa will reach 5.5% to 6%? Are you progressing with the electricity and heating tariffs that we see in two months the clearing accounts and people are going to get brain and infarctions from the accounts? Are you progressing with the direct assignments you make to your party and voyagers? Proceed when the children are in a container - schools, when they are hooded with blankets inside the classrooms, why is there no heating, is there not even a health card in the schools? This is, of course, a constant gap from all governments. At a college in Cologne, I'm told that students are wiped clean with their shirts because there is no health paper. These are the measures taken by the Ministry of Education. So this is yours - as you say - a road map, to use your terminology as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u65	Please, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u66	I shall conclude, Mr President. Not to talk about the premiums in supermarkets where every three and a little changes the tab products from the constant increases. Finally, I will say that you are a dangerous government. Every day that progresses, you drive the citizens into an ever greater despair. They've turned your back on you, of course. They have understood who you are and it's a diffuse social demand to leave as soon as possible, to go elsewhere. In another country, another planet? Separate another planet. So quit. Do it because you owe it to the citizens and to Greece and because you are the worst government in postmultiple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u67	Please. Talk was fine. Why are you talking now? In any case, Mrs Adamopoulou has made a political position. You can challenge them. The Minister of Digital Governance, Mr. Pierracakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time of emerging crises, constant crises, new phenomena. The crises of all kinds are growing steadily and the States themselves are constantly becoming their management bodies, whether we are talking about what we have been living in recent years, pandemic, pandemic, pandemic, whether we are talking about its economic and energy consequences, or about hybrid threats to our borders, cyber attacks or issues such as climate change. States are becoming internationally, not only in our country - we are simply living here and here in our national situation - in crisis management agencies. And of course, at the same time in Greece the request, for example, of the 2019 elections, which were to us? ‘Build a state’. In other words, the traditional structures and infrastructure of the state, which have been missing for many decades in our country, have not been there to the extent that it should be, and so there has been a primary request for us as a government, that the state cease to be a State of the Uganda in Europe and become a state of charity to the citizen. Therefore, it was and is double, to meet the most traditional needs a state has, but at the same time to respond to a world that is constantly changing at very high speeds. Other states, more traditional problems, have solved them. In this sense, it is not enough to solve the problems that are going on, but we must focus, as I have said, increasingly on all the problems that will come. In 2019, before the pandemic emerged, the goals were to regain the economy, to go out after a decade of major economic and political crises and to get into a normality. How? Building institutions, making major changes to the level of the daily life of the citizen. All this effort has been built, as the Prime Minister has said since he was Chief of Police Response, in an agreement of truth with the citizens. Because the facts now have our own stamp, the truth requires hard footprints. There have been these two and a half years - precisely because we are telling the truth and we can record them frankly - the successes of this government, great interventions in emergencies, in addition to the reforms that have taken place. Hybrid threats our borders, in Evros, in the Aegean Sea. The pandemic and its management in many of its manifestations, national vaccination. Many issues of everyday life were issues of the character of the crisis and issues to which the government responded very well. The state's digital transformation is an example of itself. Of the total of eight million eight hundred thousand digital transactions of citizens in 2018, we are now in five hundred sixty-seven million digital transactions. I mean, we're saving sixty tails to every Greek citizen. This strategy, which was originally designed under the supervision of the Prime Minister, was a strategy that concerned what I said before, the state's traditional functioning, a state of non- bureaucratic, became a crisis management mechanism. In other words, at the same time in a pandemic phase, we have turned a strategy into another strategy. in a strategy to enable citizens to interact with the state from their home, so that we can make a state and businesses continue to operate within an unprecedented regime. And this was achieved through the thousands of three hundred fifteen gov.gr procedures that we have today, through these millions of transactions. And I invite you to do the mental exercise, the mental leap how we would have managed the pandemic as a whole if it hadn't been for that tool in our hands. This is a crisis that we have avoided and is one of many, because in the crises you have to be proactive. Of course, because the truth agreement is an agreement of truth, it requires you to be able to do the hard recordings where things are not going so well. That is what happened, a move that is outside our traditional political culture. There's the word apologies to the political system now. There is a prime minister's lips. It's on the top level. That requires the re-establishment of the state. And not just that. In fact, on all these issues, there will be failures in all these huge challenges, problems. To be able, however, to say directly: "I am taught by them, I am metabolizing failure in lessons, lesson in practice and practice at a better balance point for my country." That's what we all have to do. This is what this government is doing, and so the government has faced crises, has repulsive crises, has avoided crises and will become ever better in the face of any crisis. But it really means something else. Etymologically means fighting memory against oblivion. Unbelievable. And exactly what today's motion of censure seeks is a vain pursuit of oblivion. It starts as an attempt to turn snowstorm into a stone war, ends up with an unfavourable pursuit of settling with mistakes and failures of the past. And here in this sense, and because of many of the attacks which have been heard, the characterizations and the brutality of these traits in this Chamber, we remember a little this phrase that Talleyyrandos had said about the Bourbons when they became the Palin correction: "They learned nothing, they forgot nothing", meaning that they had not taken the experiences of their own course and had not forgotten at that time about their opponents. It is a pity that this phrase should be resonated in this Chamber for so many years later. But these procedures, which have happened in the context of the civil protection and the crises we are managing, produce lessons for all of us. The first lesson is that there is no "turn" on the shift. There is a responsibility on the shift, the responsibility to deal with events and the responsibility, as we said before, to transform experience into knowledge and in practice. Secondly, that the institutions of the state concern us all. We are judged not by our designations, but by what we are cutting to improve these institutions, by the alternative proposal in the field, by the programme that Mr Scorchos said earlier, by the 1.7 billion available for civil protection, because that is where they will, if any, appear to be, the alternative approaches and the alternative proposals. These are our programs. What are their own programs? If there's anything better, we'll apply it and be credited to the one who proposed it. But what's the alternative? What is the alternative to the organisational function that the Civil Protection must have and the course that has taken place in recent years? We started out from an office, as has been mentioned, and at the moment we have a diamond building in Kifissia, the building of Civil Protection, with the role that Political Protection has played all this time in pandemic management, from mega centers to the hundreds of thousands of fires that have been fires and how we have managed them. The completion of 112 was not a self-evident treaty. On the one hand, we created an interim solution on the other hand in 2019, we had to talk to all mobile manufacturers to establish the compatibility of the mobile phone system. It was going to be the system, but somewhere he had to play, and we had to talk to all the manufacturers to do that. This is a pre-process that took place in the last half of 2019. There are relevant correspondence. In this sense, criticism is necessary. It's desirable. There must be, because no one is perfect from the point of view. But the criticism is not the sterile denial, because the sterile refusal is like this verse of Michael Ghana, which says: "They are not all, and they have not planted their hands." So we have to plant the trees of the future together, because in the end, with our shades, we belong to the same whole thing, we belong to the same treaty. We have a common destiny. The third lesson is institutions and structures. Not just faces. A great politician of the past in Greece had made this 20th century an observation: "When ministers change to countries like England, performance does not change much in the Ministries. In countries like Greece they change." Here you can take the wrong lesson and seek superhumans and magicians, who, as Napoleon said, have to be lucky. But there is also the right lesson: To go and build structures that can withstand time when political staff change and when governments change. These structures we have tried to build in Digital Governance, these structures we are trying to build in Civil Protection, these structures we are trying to build everywhere. And that's why ideas are needed, that's exactly why additional and other views are needed. Because, in the end, the lyric says that it is written by the groups, but in politics, it is written by the groups. And the teams are the ones that have made the difference in national vaccination, the teams are the ones that have made the difference in all digital systems, the teams are the ones that have made the difference in each aspect of state operation. Mr President, in closing, I feel the need to say a few words about the people of civil protection, because, yes, the debate must not be personified, but, in fact, it is a motion of censure. On the one hand, I would like to say a few words about the man sitting on those benches, Nikos Chardalia, whom I saw many nights and days struggling like another Kynaiger over every crisis, to be late at the few times that we had to stay as Digital Governance - because he kept up - to be able to solve problems over the field and, on the other hand, to solve problems over Christos Stylianides, who is trying to come up with a great European experience - which is undeniable - just in this attempt to build all these new structures. And we'll do it. You know, we found very interesting the record of the German Minister of Justice last week, who said: "We were mocking Greece in the past, but Greece has managed to digitise its health system within one to two years. It would be good if we did so too." It's too much of a imprint. We have not yet voted for our health system. We have digitized a very large part of it, intangible prescribing, referrals. We have the Recovery Fund. It's all going to happen in the next one, two, three years. But the only thing that happens is this recording at the level of foreign countries that we were mocking up until a few years ago, which says something too big. And that is something we all have to invest in, we all have to insist on. That's exactly why we have a sample of writing, we have the will. We'll insist, we'll invest, we'll succeed! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the sixth circle of speakers with Mr Theodoros Karaoglou from New Democracy. In order to plan, after Mr Karaoglou, Mrs Anagnostopoulou will be speaking from SYRIZA, Mr. Psakakis from New Democracy, Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement and immediately after the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Pskatotakis. Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting my position by giving advice specifically to colleagues from the Staff Regulations. In life it is good not to rotate the debate on issues that do not interest us. This is a theorem that clearly applies to the private life of everyone, but it also applies to the political life of our country. I honestly cannot understand why SYRIZA tabled the motion of censure, because it is quite simply a cynical confession of inability to understand reality. It is clear that the motion of censure states your political despair, Mr SYRIZA, a despair that leads you to existential mistakes. To describe it more correctly, it is the desperate attempt on your political survival. At the same time, however, it is also a reminder of the insurmountable political and spectacle that distinguishes you. While the country is fighting hard with the pandemic and healing the wounds of bad weather, you are looking for reasons to cause tension and turmoil. Besides, you've admitted it publicly that normality bothers you. You despise it because it does not serve your party purposes. So you try to turn your internal-party deadlocks into deadlocks in the country, as it is obvious that you tell the Government of New Democracy to hear them in the Change Movement, you tell Kyriakos Mitsotakis to hear them. It is also more obvious that your gaze is focused on the demographic findings that bring you closer to the position of Elassinos Antipopulation, the third, that is, a party in the Greek Parliament. That's why you're looking for a multiplier for an external enemy, in order to function as an "automatic" in resolving any insects of inner-party differences, which we all realize are now impossible to hide. But be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the motion of censure you tabled will turn into a strong vote of confidence in the government, the second in a few weeks' time after that of voting on the budget. As long as you dream of going back to the loser yesterday you represent, we drive the country forward. We do our self-criticism, we learn from our mistakes, and we are careful not to do it again. We have the freeness of requesting sincere apologies from our compatriots for failures and omissions. I don't remember you doing the same in Matty, where you were looking for mistakes, but you couldn't find them despite the hundreds dead. You did not do so when you closed down the banks and imposed capital control, nor did you have any tragedy in Mandra, nor did you have any political opponents hang on your handkerchiefs about supposedly scandals and assumptions that justice, in the end, acquitted all of them. This, after all, is the dominant way of thinking on the left: it is always the fault of others, and if you have a certain past of operational incompetence. Only now, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are giving the battle of political survival, knowing that your Greek society has passed over you. And that makes you nervous, as your ferocious youth has ceased to exist as an excuse. But be sure that the country will not return to the years of insanity. Greece has returned a page and this is evident in the economy, in foreign policy, in the return of logic to everyday life. In the field of the economy, our country's position on global competitiveness is constantly improving, gaining a total of 12 jobs over the last two years. The adaptability of government policy to the emergency needs caused by the pandemic, the reforms and the resilience of businesses have contributed to the greatest possible extent so that our national economy can make growth in the European Union. On the front of international ties, the signing of a mutual defence agreement with France and the United States of America, coupled with the country's defensive armour, thanks to the purchase of the militant Rafas and the fighters from France, strengthen the geopolitical and geostrategic role of Greece in the wider region of Southeast Europe. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, now has a strong voice, which is taken seriously into account in the decision-makers. Finally, I would like to make special reference to the government decision to put an end to the long-term enslavement of the university majority in the interests and purposes of well-known anarchist left wrestlers. Our universities belong to their students and teachers and not to organised minorities that manifest violations. The break-up of undemocratic and illegal conquests in universities puts an end to the fear and tolerance that existed for decades, so that our universities again become places of education, knowledge, freedom and security, with the university asylum to protect only the academic community and not the ones who abolished it, who trampled it to the fore. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA confirms that the Left in Greece is nothing more than a body of populism, a populism that aims to limit logic, so as to facilitate left-wing idealism and achieve the party manipulation of society. However, Greeks have no short memory, they do not forget what left rule means. Your narratives are over and with them your political time is up. All you have left is the well - known nerve to shake your finger forever. After all, I remind you of what Grand Napoleon said, namely, that with the courage one can take everything. However, don't forget that he unblocked this phrase just before the Waterloe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr Karaoglu, and especially for keeping time. Mrs. Anagnastopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. The spirit, the style, the culture of this government and the new right are unfolding from yesterday in this House, within the House by the ministers and MPs who come here and speak, an ethos and a style that confirms that this apology of the Prime Minister had no depth, no reflection, that it was pretext, omission and communication. I say this because we have once again micro-communism and tombling for moments of critical, unpredictable, natural disasters that have occurred in the country, which have also occurred in 2007, but no one is making such a gravel, apart from this new right that we are seeing here. But why does it systematically do this against phenomena, in failures - lone - which had not only been predicted with mathematical accuracy, in summer the fires and now the snow? Why are they doing this, first and foremost with Mr Georgiadis, with the toweled channels, and here are MPs and ministers? Why this horror? For one reason. Here are the oldest tools on the right: Engaging the Left and the progressive world. You won't talk again. You've done it before, we've lived it in our history. We won't allow you to do that again. Here you need to account for the collapse of the state, because it collapsed in the summer, because it now collapsed for absolutely foreseeable phenomena. The motion of censure is not just about that, but about it. It is all about matter, because we have a new right which, with regard to the health, climate, economic and energy crisis, does not put at the centre of public policies, public institutions, is not in its ideology to put at the centre public policies, public institutions, public infrastructures that will give security to society, which will fight inequality in society that will give resilience for the future. This new right, the hard neoliberal one, has another programme and on the basis of this programme it wants to impose hegemony in order to legitimise precisely this programme against public policies, public institutions. What kind of hegemony is this? I am addressing both SYRIZA and all the progressive parties and the progressive world. Three years ago, in this House, we experienced the uprising of the patriotism of the New Democracy on the occasion of the Prespecies Agreement, a patriotous patriot, as the Right has learned from old years and that is where it takes its tools, from the very old years, a patriotless patriot without a previous one. For us patriotism - and there are the different ideologies - it is what is done in a public health system, which you do not want systematically and you do it systematically. Patriotism is what has happened, this chain of solidarity between the health system and society. Patriotism is to mobilize the private sector to put back, not to protect it, not to let him out and not to try to make secret consultations about how to privatize and merge this public health system. The ESS is the great "inhibitation" of the democratic culture of this place and you will not dismantle it, which is why we consider you dangerous. We are the first country - and you should be accountable for this - with regard to the deaths of the pandemic, because people die outside the ICU, because people can't get to hospitals because there is no primary health care because they can't afford to have the minimum care. Against this, do you know what we heard? Here is the measure and the rule of what I said to you, what you want to impose on this society. We heard the Prime Minister say: 'Yes, we had dead, but tourism went well'. That's the measure. Public education system, education system, the other'removal' of the democratic culture of this place. What did you do? You deceived it. You detested the university world, offended our youth by saying that universities are a man of illegality, without any shame. You put the police inside the universities. You are trying to unleash the great resistance of this society, a system of education that has offered much to this place. They need changes, but they need no excitement. Why are you doing this? Why does the state finally fail? It's not failing. That's his job. He is accountable to fewer people, to his donors and to a hard customer system that the Right wants to impose again. You did it in all areas. Democratic culture is collective agreements, it is the struggles of this people that you are trying to unleash. Democratic culture is the strikes. Democratic culture is the demonstrations. That's what you're trying to unravel. Democratic culture is solidarity, it is the inclusion of the different and the foreign. That's what you're trying to unravel, because you won't be able to build this narrow oligarchal system you're trying to do. That is why the motion of censure has been tabled, for what symbolically and materially happened in culture. You filed an Acropolis without any consultation with anyone. You humiliated the National Theatre in the name of a "perfect", something you tried to cover up. You humiliated the actors. And yet this culture resists this culture of democracy. The survivors of civilization came out on the road, the young people and the young people in the universities resist. Everywhere they resist. I therefore call on this House and all the world that hears us resisting this hegemony that the New Democracy wants to make - and here is the serious thing - where the Midianiarchs will be entitled to be granted the loans of parties and ombudsmen, bankers who will have immunity, journalists who do informative journalism and who are being persecuted. The left-wing world in this country, therefore, is the time to resist. This is what is being played, ladies and gentlemen, today in the House, and not in the humours and micro-partements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I would like the floor for my three-minute speech, but I will speak less.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u75	Here you go, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor on the occasion of the speech of the sympathizer otherwise, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, who gave us lessons of democratic culture and said that there is a difference of ethos and style, obviously in favour of the SYRIZA, so she claimed, in relation to the New Democracy. Because I am in the Minutes from the morning speech by Mrs.Jakris, who said specifically from the Step of the House: "How much the polling that takes SYRIZA equals the Movement of Change." Ms. Jackres obviously envyed Mr. Polakis' glory, said these vulgar and slanderous, that neither much nor much did Maximos pay for this TV station and this polling company in order to make a false survey. I call on Mrs Jackson to withdraw what slander and obscene mentioned in her speech a moment ago. Of course, if Mrs Jackson does not withdraw, the official SYRIZA will be placed on this slanderous declaration, which shows nothing but democratic culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. The reason for this is Mr.Tascakis from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, last night plenary would vote for the country's top development law by seeking to improve the investment climate. However, the Qualified Opposition has chosen to change the agenda. Trying to face her political deadlocks, she conductes a spasm of irresponsibility and popular stress. At the same time as the Prime Minister welcomed the world's largest banker, sealing an agreement for our country, the President of the Police Department was looking for a board of political salvation. It is clear that it separates us from political responsibility for the country's course. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, we are looking forward and you are looking back. You have been calling on a government since the first day of government takeover of the country, which has given a clear signal, not only in intentional terms, but with concrete and measurable government work. With Olympic temper and methodicity, he has successfully faced the unprecedented pandemic from the first moment. Lives have been saved and the health system has been strengthened, facing chronic weaknesses, making the country an international management model and an example of responsibility. In this titanic effort by the government, the health staff and the citizens - and with pain - you have of course been and remain absent. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, you are voting against all the measures of the Government by closing the eye on the anti-invasives, by opposition based on the number of the dead, claiming that Greece is the worst in Europe in the number of deaths. However, the official numbers break down your unfounded claims. This is how we are informed of Hebrews who count in their own way and indeed the Orthodox one, while at the same time relinquishing the government that recognizes its mistakes. The Prime Minister has bravery and apologizes to the citizens, guaranteeing for the first time compensation to the citizens. This is called political sensitivity. On the front of the economy and the energy crisis, we are responding with measures to support and relieve citizens. Measures amounting to EUR 43 billion were introduced during the pandemic, as well as suspensions of tax obligations. The positive assessment of government policy is reflected in the rates of unemployment reduction, as well as in the strengthening of the public's available income and in the reduction of red loans. The country has regained credibility on the international stage, now a pro-investment destination. In exercising an active foreign policy, the government manages to strengthen its alliances by reaching important agreements and diplomatic victories, at the same time shielding its land maritime and river borders and constantly seeking to increase the combat power and deterrent capacity of the Armed Forces through armaments programmes. In fact, the neighbor lost his temper, and that's the best sample. In Evros for the first time, the single doctrine of security and defence was applied as regards border guarding, which operated exemplaryly, but also effectively, achieving the country's first post-war victory over Turkey in March 2020. You left the country undisturbed vine and that is why it was a peaceful invasion of identified economic migrants with a golden refugee dust. You have implemented the open borders policy. And if the borders were held up, it was due to the philosophy and philosopheria of the police guarding the Evros border, as well as to the local society. We, however, opt for the country's defensive armour with measures of physical, technical, electronic and electrical protection in terms of lighting, applying the single safety and defence dogma together, while Evros is developing into a transport, transport, cultural, energy and geostrategic hub through appropriate policies. The port of the capital is upgraded multiplely and transformed into a new Souda, with the stamp of the transatlantic ally giving an important role in an extreme area. The cross-border rail link between the local port and the rest of South-East Europe shall be strengthened. Above all, the double rail line, electricity and alignment from Alexandroupolis to Ormene are being modernised and upgraded. The completion of the eastern regional road and the construction of a transverse railway line at the pier of the local port give added value to our capital. At the same time in Evros and Thrace there is an energy cosmopolitan with energy pipelines crossing our region and encroaching towards the West. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure is an opportunity to talk about the work of the government. The truth is that the three days during the debate in the House are not enough to develop the rich and diverse governmental work. We're all witnesses. But we must be honest with the citizens. We are not just talking about Civicism today. Today we are all addressing the Greek citizens from the same time, with honesty and responsibility, with the promise that the government will always exercise strict self-criticism with measurable results in order for Greek citizens to feel safe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u79	Thank you too for keeping time, Mr Prussakis. Mr. Kamines from the Change Movement now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that during the post-multiple period, as many proposals of distrust have been submitted at times, none of them have succeeded. The reason is simple. The motion of censure as the last instrument of parliamentary control available to the opposition has the effect of naturalizing the parliamentary majority around its natural leadership, which is the government. The same is true in the opposition that puts forward the proposal. And these counsellors, from the moment this decisive battle is given, are assembling around their leader, the head. It is therefore clear why Mr Tsipras has rushed these days to table a motion of distrust on the one hand to disarm the internal opposition, which disputes its pre-conferenceal plans and, on the other hand, why he obliges Mr Mitsotakis to postpone his possible plan to hold early elections in spring. It will indeed be very difficult for the government to demand the dismantling of the House when the House has just recently expressed its confidence in the House. So SYRIZA, on the one hand, asks for an appeal to the polls and, on the other, does what he can to avoid. There's a third reason. Mr. Tsipras wants to take advantage of the absence of the head of the Change Movement from the House, Mr. Androullakis, in order for him to show himself as the main opponent of the government. And he's rushing to do this, because all the data is polluted, and they don't suggest that this very picture is beginning to rip in the eyes of the public. And this long-lived agony of the party of Officerial Response will continue as long as the Change Movement continues to go on the path of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is someone who is fearless, he could now ask for elections, that's us. And yet we don't. We do not do so because it is morally unacceptable to ask for elections when more than a hundred fellow citizens die every day. And since everything shows that the next elections will be double, it is not the time to suffer a two-month insolence, because we all know that during the election period public administration is paralysing. And speaking of the paralysis of public administration, I have the opportunity to refer to some conclusions from the recent tragic experience we have experienced in the stain. That was the drop I believe the glass is over. We are talking about total bankruptcy of the country's public administration system. The motion of censure gives us the opportunity through a strong perhaps but a fruitful debate to identify governmental responsibilities. And we will do that. I invite you all for a while to overcome the party trenches, to stand up to the great picture, i.e. to realise that in the last four years the country has been experiencing these tragedies. It sees two successive governments unable to respond with elementary adequacy in extreme situations of natural phenomena. He saw it in the murderous floods in Mandra. He saw it in the hundreds of fires in Matty. He saw the complete paralysis of everything in Medea. He saw the tradition in the flames of hundreds of thousands of acres last summer. And today, after Medea, the desperate citizen again sees the entire state mechanism surrendering to the snow. We are living the same nightmare in the country's capital again to be cut off for days the supply of electricity in whole regions and people to be frozen for hours in vehicles immovable in central roads. Most of all, however, we are again witnessing an affront to the dignity of the citizen when responsibility lies with the other government in charge. What is it about, and we're constantly experiencing the same tragedy? Regardless of time, no matter what government, no matter what kind of natural disaster we are completely incompetent? Is that our fate? The answer is that this will be our destiny as long as we continue to maintain a hydro-headed and powerless state, an administration of limited capabilities. The paralysis of the state machine in the phases manifesting the extreme natural phenomena is not just a weakness in emergency situations, an impossibility of simply an operational nature. In these crises there is a condensation of the chronic vulnerability of public administration, its inability to act interoperablely and at the same time with a clear division of responsibilities, not to depend on some heroic officials or ministers who are at some point exhausted, 'burned', as we say, but to act effectively on an unpersonal mechanism that possesses technical knowledge and develops automation. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet managed to create a public administration that obeys the basic principles described by Max Webber more than a century ago. These structures to which Mr Pierracakis referred earlier. The structures, however, are not made with armies of transmigrants, because the state needs the institutional memory from the continuation of the operation of public services. Make it hard to read the article of an acclaimed journalist, a wise man, Dimitris Psychoyiou in “NEA” the other day. Otherwise, in the crisis of the last few days, the nakedness of a government that has become more and more rapidly dispersed appeared to everyone. I am ashamed as a citizen that my government was treating me as being the last scoundrel charging indulgently on the shoulders of a private business that is totally owned by it. And I wonder how this government can attract investment from abroad when each investor sees that they will at any time be ready to put their own responsibilities on him? Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that this government came to power after the tragedies in Mandra and Matti, but also with the assurances that it would effectively address the two major crises of the last decade, economic and immigration, and here we see it burdening others its responsibilities. We see in the economic crisis that the responsibilities are loaded on the weakest with the precision that is taking over the country and inflation. And we see the migratory crisis coming essentially and divides the Greeks into two categories: the Greeks of the mainland, the privileged ones, and the islanders, whom it calls from now on, on the one hand - but on the other hand - the next migratory crisis erupts, to become Europe's prisoners. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too. The Minister for Maritime Affairs and the Island Policy, Mr Plakkatakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me note that Mr Tsipras' political deadlock has led him to one of his minimally useful political interventions, since tabling the motion of censure allows the government's overall work to be quoted, but also unavoidable and necessary comparisons with the SYRIZA Government. The citizens have the opportunity not only to see the enormous differences between the two governments, not only to remember the great positive changes that have taken place and are carried out with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also to see that our Government is implementing precisely the programme, for which we have been entrusted to us, not to be better than SYRIZA's failed governance - that is easy - but to respond successfully to today's needs, but above all to meet tomorrow's challenges. The results of our efforts are already visible not only in economic indicators, not only in international ratings, not only in our country's position in Europe and in the world, but also in the daily lives of the citizens, with a significant reduction in unemployment, digital services, tax concessions, attraction of foreign investments, support for the ESS, restoration of the middle class, which was so afflicted by the governance of SYRIZA, and of course a better standard of living and improved quality of life for Greeks and Greeks. Obviously, it wasn't all perfect. In the recent unprecedented weather there were failures and errors. We've identified them. We apologized to the citizens who were afflicted. We moved immediately to compensate those who were excluded from the Attica Street. We also proceed with the changes needed to ensure better coordination and more effective action in cases of extreme phenomena. But the overall balance sheet of this government is, without doubt, very positive, something that society recognizes and is almost reflected in all the polls, and that is why it trusts Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy and not Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA. And how could citizens trust Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, when the Party of Officers' opposition insists on the same policies that followed during his administration, politically failed, which have cost very little to households, businesses, the economy, the credibility and the position of the country? How could citizens trust Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA, when none of their mistakes were taught, when they remain committed to earlier ideas? How could citizens trust SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras when they actually adopt a policy of zeroing, denying everything, without realistic proposals, with populism and irresponsibility? Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, do not want to return to SYRIZA's failed government past. They do not want to risk what has been positive in the last two and a half years. They do not want the positive course of our country to be interrupted. Citizens are sincerely asking for responsibility, efficiency, prediction and quality of life, what the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis ensures. The Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy participates in the great government effort to effectively serve many parallel objectives: the protection of our maritime borders, the safety of our seas, support for seafarers and coastlines, in order to overcome the negative effects of the pandemic, the safeguarding and expansion of the coastline link between the islands and the mainland, as well as among them, the development of the ports of our country, the protection of health and crews, the development of the islands by developing a national strategy for integrated policy on the island, with specific financial instruments for infrastructure and strengthening entrepreneurship. With integrated planning and systematic effort, we are now moving towards the implementation of our overall planning for shipping and insularity. Ladies and gentlemen, for Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy Greece has a maritime border and the representatives of the Port House effectively protect, with impressive results, our country's maritime borders, by reducing migration flows in 2021 by 85% compared to 2019. And our officials are doing their utmost to ensure that international law and the protection of human life are respected. We are saving lives in the Aegean. We support seamen and shipping. We are implementing reforms at all levels, incentives to enhance competitiveness in seagoing shipping: EUR 570 million from European resources for the modernisation of our port infrastructure and for even more quality maritime transport. Forty digital interventions that will simplify the procedures and enhance the competitiveness of the Greek flag. Sixteen new barren lines. Reform of the institutional framework for the operation of yochting in Greece. We give substance and meaning to islandity. We are making progress on the development of the ports of our country. Already here there is a huge investment interest. We are strengthening the Port Authority and its staff with new measures and, of course, with modern equipment, launching EUR 340 million, resources from the Integrated Border Management Fund and the Internal Security Fund for the period 2021-2027. And finally, we are creating a modern operating framework in which the whole maritime industry will grow even more in the years ahead. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis speaks sincerely to the citizens. We don't compare yesterday to today. This has been decided, the people have judged it in their vote. We are working to meet today's challenges and, above all, to meet tomorrow's challenges for a stable development perspective, which divides the benefits of all of us. The citizens are well aware of what this government has achieved, but especially know what this government can still achieve. They are fully aware that Mr Tsipras' intention is to turn us back, to turn us back to the failed past. That is why they reject SYRIZA's proposal of distrust and continue to trust Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u83	I, too, thank you, Minister, especially for your concentrated speech and for keeping time. The next speakers are: Theodoros Rousopoulos from New Democracy, Stavros Arahovitis from SYRIZA, Ioannis Loverdes from New Democracy, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos from the KKE and then the Minister for Rural Development Mr. Lebanon. Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are unfortunate and happy moments in politics. They know that the happy ones are much less than the unfortunate ones. But having unlucky moments is an originality. I am thinking of the political initiatives of the last three years of the Chief of Staff, which appear to be in a position which unfortunately decides on one decision after another. On 20 September 2020, he told us that it would be irresponsible to call for elections while the pandemic and the Greek Turkish. Later, in December, a month ago, he came here and told us he would ask for elections. And now it is actually repeating it by calling for the government to fall. Of course it will not succeed, but I think they are constantly unfortunate at the moment of the President of the Civilian Representation, which can be interpreted in some ways already mentioned by previous colleagues. Speaking with some colleagues, earlier, we thought that we anticipated that opposition parties, with a majority of twenty votes, could be able to have a plenary debate and a decision to set up a committee of inquiry or pre-review. We have not been sufficiently imaginative to provide the Constitution with a similar procedure for a motion of censure from opposition to opposition parties. Why is that other than what's been going on here these days? What is the seeming rise in polling? Whatever they say about polls, I've taken a public position many times, and I have huge experiences, I had the honour of being the Minister who recommended the law a few years ago for polling that still applies. So what else does that mean? A despair move by the Chief of Officer Response because in some polls it seemed that the third party, after the change of leader, seems to be more advanced, at least his morality. In any case, these will be resolved by each other. But now see some contradictions. First unfortunate proposal by the Chief of Computation - because it is not the first motion of censure now being made - was against the Minister of Finance. The second is now against the government. Why am I saying "laughty"? Because, ladies and gentlemen, you have targeted the economy, when SYRIZA's performance was twenty-nine new taxes, increasing tax rates, increasing VAT, increasing HISPIA, abolishing reduced VAT on the islands, abolishing tax exemptions for medical expenses and a general tax raid. On the other hand, you have come to blame - at that time - the government through the Minister of Finance, which the Government, the Government, Mrs Mitsotakis, immediately proceeded to many tax reductions. We increased the Gross Domestic Product, the households' available income, we reduced the income tax, we strengthened businesses and especially during the pandemic much more than any other country, we increased the country's credibility abroad to such an extent. The previous Minister, Mr Pierracakis, referred to Germany. I would like to mention the example of Germany and the new finance minister who said: 'I wish we could move as Greece moved into the economy'. Secondly, today's motion of censure on an issue that has arisen as a result, snow. You have not made a motion of censure for the pandemic. For two years now you have been blaming us, firstly, that we have been legislating during the pandemic. You're saying we shouldn't have brought any law, so the House should be closed down. Second, for intensive care units. I repeat, we've got five hundred and fifty-seven units, we've got more than three hundred. Thirdly, you are accusing us of the people who are saying that they are dying because of the government, ignoring that the more than sixty years of age, which are the eight out of ten, are unfortunately people who have refused to be vaccinated. Even for the pandemic, however, you thought it was important for us to make a motion of censure. You have not made us a motion of censure for the tenth hour, which we supposedly implemented, allegedly abolishing the eighth hour. I would remind you that 10 hours are at a choice of employees to work four days a week instead of five, in consultation with the agency in which they work, with the company in which they work. That is why you did not consider us to be a motion of censure. Not even for the university police. You have accused us of being the analgesic, the extreme right, the one that does not respect students and the student movement. For any of this, which has been and is the tip of your own policy as a Dedicated Opposition, in the last two years you have not made us a motion of censure. And here comes the snow. Where were we in trouble? The Prime Minister himself said so, and the relevant ministers said so. We had, of course, on the Attica Road, on the main streets of Athens, so we had problems mainly in Attica. Did we have problems with electricity, like at least last time? We didn't have, because to talk about electricity, we need to talk about PPC and how we received it and where we took it. Because problems are not due to abundance, problems come from a number of years, uncertainties, mistakes, problems. Ladies and gentlemen, what crises has SYRIZA been called upon to manage? Two major crises, the two major "M", Mandra with the floods, the Matty. The result was a third ‘M’. How did he do it? Madara. I'm not saying he doesn't have the right to come and judge us. And judge us and make us a motion of distrust and whatever he wants. But we cannot forget the story, which is too recent. We were charged with compensation. But the compensation firstly shows that the apology we have demanded is worthwhile and, secondly, that we respect the citizen. We forgot that at the time the Prime Minister said that "what do you want the two grand? You will spend them quickly." So we don't pay compensation, you'd blame us. We pay compensation, you blame us again. I close, since my time is running out, and since my dear Mrs. Canelles has been in the Chamber. They sent me, dear Mrs. Canelle, a video yesterday - it's been many years since - in which you've been presenting a news report at a TV station. It's the first snow of 2001. The then head of PASOK and Prime Minister Kostas Simitis came out and said, "It's okay. The water reservoirs were filled with snow," when in Athens it had become a mess. I, at the time, asked for at least one apologies from the government as a representative of the opposition. We therefore believe that the ethical approach to problems is of value. That's not good enough. It's not enough an apology, but it's worth it. These, ladies and gentlemen, as samples of each individual's writing, are judged and captured. If SYRIZA believes that with such policies it will win the next election, I assure him that those who sought it in the past have failed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u85	Mr Russoulou, thank you for keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u86	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u87	Are you the Parliamentary Representative today? You're replacing Mr. Palphie?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u88	On staff, Mr. President. He mentioned my name. And he referred to my name for a similar case many years ago in my professional capacity. He's a colleague, I know him, and he didn't say that about harm. At this time when pluralism is equivalent, especially in media, to levelling and because there are elections in the association of writers of five days' duration under difficulties, to ballots in which all references to my journalistic status are taken down together before many years by definition can lead to misunderstandings. That's all and thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u89	There was no such dimension in my report.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u90	I know, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u91	It was not a personal matter within the meaning of Article 68, but, in any case, it was a clarification. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, along with the whole of the parliamentary group, to demonstrate the government's failure in all areas of governance. With the motion of censure and the debate here in plenary we move the message of frustration and indignation throughout society, which exists in young people, who exist in the people of work, in the professionals and in the farmers. At the same time, we are highlighting the hope and perspective that will bring about a progressive change that this place needs. Because the ideas and proposals we have been tabling and you are deaf are now majority in society and anyone who talks to the people of society sees it. The debate is therefore taking place in the midst of a pandemic that has so far left twenty-three thousand dead. Many of them died without the healing doctors and nurses being able to base them on the right of lasting battle for their lives. Heroes sanitary, who were hypocritically applauding them, became the victims of your inadequacy, helpless, fewer permanent, poorly paid, indicted, and in the end, for rewards get available. This debate is taking place within the consequences of your inadequacy to deal with the bad weather that has been predicted many days earlier than the scientists responsible and the last few hours had been predicted and fully identified. This bad weather buried the ultimate state in the snow. The debate is taking place when high government officials appear involved and blackmailed by sad teleshoppers. The debate is taking place in the middle of a crisis of accuracy, both in electricity and in fuel, in food, in supplies, which have kneeled consumers and at the same time threatens the continuation of production in the country, in the primary sector and in processing. The failure of the government can no longer be hidden behind communication-type tricks, behind the regular targeting of workers, both for the shipwreck in pensions to the ECA, ELGA, health, education in culture. Targeting is your strategy. Farmers and farmers, fishermen, have never been in a worse situation than the current government. Shells content announcements, insufficient measures and customer service. The cost of production is being depleted, and you promise to treat aspirins. Because aspirins are the measures that have been announced so far and do not touch the substance and the basis of the problem. Our country has been a Precision Champion for months at the price of electricity. Only in the last week the increase is 42%! How, then, to keep farmers from kneeling, not to knee the TWGs, how they can water, how the next production begins. And what's the government doing? In the midst of this situation, he sells out the public body, sells PPC and even a dowry. The annual average increase in fertiliser prices is 164%, whereas for particular fertilisers this increase is 260%. Without water and without fertilizers, then, domestic production and agricultural income are at risk. These are issues discussed at the last Council of Ministers in Brussels in December 2021, Minister. In animal feed, the increase for 2021 has been 70%, while it is expected that with the new year, with new crops, the increase in fertilisers and water in new production will continue. So there is a really question and much more to islanders when transport costs are being borne. What are the support measures? In December, therefore, you succeeded. You managed to make the worst subsidy payment of all times. Two years were enough to dismantle what was built within the period of SYRIZA governance, pay old subsidies and create a transparent, timely and valid subsidy payment system. Farmers knew what they were getting and when. Since the sale in 2012, the Agricultural Bank has no more access to funding. Even outside the banks, farmers can't pass. And what happened? We have given you a financial instrument that could give you loans with guarantees. I am presenting for the Minutes what the fund's results are today, two and a half years after your taking over. Of the EUR 126 million requested loans, approvals are 4m euros, 3%, on a ready-to-work tool. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the fires in Mani, Evia, everywhere, in the previous period, the floods, the ice-cream in 2021 came, and the bad weather "Elpida" which, with the ice-cream that then caused has endangered agricultural production for another reason. And here you are accountable, not for the bad weather, obviously, but for its management. We have an ELGA insurance regulation that hasn't changed. And not only has it not changed, the changes that we started during SYRIZA's time you froze them and you're accountable for it. Have you avoided a substantial consultation on the CAP with the producer bodies and the result what is it? How does it turn out that it was only fussy? In the first days of 2022, in the first 20 days, you are already proposing changes to the plan you submitted twenty days ago. Ideas here continue. They continue with irrigation water. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute more, Your Honor. You are attempting to provide individuals with twenty-three irrigation works under the PPP procedure, at the cost of building and operating EUR 4 billion, which, as you have confessed, will be charged to Greek taxpayers. What did we deliver you? We delivered you thirty major irrigation projects, such as the Kelefina dam, such as Taka, such as a series of other projects, with a total cost of 0.5 billion euros, fully integrated into the Rural Development Programme, so with no charge for the Greek taxpayer. Twenty-one projects you with 4 billion euros, thirty one to 0.5 billion euros, with zero costs for the Greek taxpayer. These are the differences. Ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly putting forward proposals. Why? Because we are making use of the wealth of our officials and making use of contact with society.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are tabling proposals on the consequences of the pandemic with the programme 'COMMERCIAL INSTRUMENTS', in fact, for the ELGA, for the new CAP, for the public health system. We are putting forward proposals that become majority in society. Anyone who discusses this with society discusses the proposals that we have put forward. And a word about the situation. Because here's a big paradoxical conversation I don't like, but we have to start with it. We've received a country bankrupt. We delivered a country of EUR 37 billion. We have received a country with a dissolved National Health System and we have delivered a health system with more health care, with more beds, with hospitals, with primary health care.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u95	Finish it. You've been in nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President, with that. We received 27% unemployment. We delivered 17%. What will you deliver? Ladies and gentlemen, citizens now have a benchmark. That's why, clean words, an appeal to the polls now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. Mr Yiannis Loverdos from New Democracy has the floor and immediately after Mrs Manolakos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I too wish to join in the apologies of the Prime Minister, in this courageous act of the Prime Minister, our apologies, my personal apologies, but I assure you, too, of the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, for the suffering of thousands of our fellow citizens in the last few days because of the bad weather. It's an apology coming out of us and it's a brave political act, because that's what has to be done. I can assure you that in the thirty-five years that I have rarely heard a Prime Minister acknowledge any mistakes that have been made and not just acknowledge them and apologize, but also learn from mistakes. I consider this to be very important, and that is why it would be enough to support wholeheartedly, wholeheartedly, as we will do, the hundred and fifty-seven Members of the New Republic the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And I say this for a party like SYRIZA, who tabled the motion of censure, a party that, like his Chief, has a great difficulty in apologizing. You remember how many days have passed since Eye to take political responsibility in the words of Mr Tsipras. You remember they thought that Mandra and Eye were "drifts" that "slashed" on their shift. And, of course, SYRIZA has not yet apologised for the great political fiasco, the 'NOVARTIS' case, which is really a political scandal, but on the part of today's Opposition, on the part of SYRIZA, who accused and denounced his politicians. On the substance, when Alexis Tsipras came down yesterday, on Tuesday - I was here in the House - to enter the Chamber of Parliament immediately I realized that his purpose was to ask for a motion of censure, because many say he was surprised. It did not surprise me personally or too many colleagues at all. We had already discussed this and understood it, it was a prefecture for SYRIZA, and I fully understand it, to table the motion of censure. He couldn't do any different. It has been so twisted, both internally and in the overall political scene, that it has no choice but to ask for a motion of censure, knowing in advance that it will fall into the void. It was an attempt to get away from his own problems. Many colleagues have explained this in their previous statements. It is clear, when polls - and I am not referring to the latest 'ABACUS' survey, which I too am not particularly satisfied with, but I am referring to the very valid polls of the valid companies, such as METRON ANALYSIS, MRB and so on - show that the difference between SYRIZA and New Democracy remains at very high levels, despite the enormous trials our Government faces and that there is the nightmare of the Change Movement, which is beginning to cause huge problems for SYRIZA's position in the political scene. These are your problems, solve them internally, solve them with the Change Movement, solve them with society, which is not convinced by you. But that has nothing to do with government policy. On the contrary, government policy must tell you that it is in the right direction and that it recognises most of the public's opinion. I hear SYRIZA's criticism of the major issues of topicality, which are three at the moment, bad weather, pandemic and accuracy. These are the issues that you are focusing on. So let us come over and look at all three. First of all, mistakes have been made: of course. We've admitted it. Of course, there have been responsibilities. They'll be attributed when it takes those who were really to blame. It is true that over time the political system and the Greek state did not do everything they could to be able to deal with such great trials and theories. And it is unacceptable, and I am referring to the whole level, from local government to regional government, to the central state. They all have a share of responsibility, no doubt, as do the individuals and in this particular case the company that managed the Attica Road. So everyone has responsibilities and they will be attributed. But there is now a new reality: climate change burdens these phenomena. It will be even more intense and more frequent in the coming years. That is why Kyriakos Mitsotakis founded the Ministry of Climate Change and Civil Protection, which is precisely the purpose of this, and which is why he needs and will have time to deal more effectively with the problems that will arise. It's not happening, unfortunately, for the first time. Theodore Rusopoulos said about 2001, which we had great suffering from this kind of gravitational nature. Let me remind you that in 2017 there was a great suffering on SYRIZA of our fellow citizens who were trapped for more than twenty-four hours on the highway. We've forgotten. I don't forget that easily, maybe because of a professional status. This is happening. It's not supposed to happen. It's unacceptable. We ask, contrary to others, that we apologise to those who have been afflicted and give them compensation precisely for that reason. The second is pandemic. In the pandemic we do have too many dead, and it is a tragedy that we have so many dead. We shouldn't have so many dead. But the dead are not caused by government measures, I assure you. They're caused by the virus, the coronary. The coroner kills. They do not kill, as some of the SYRIZA indirectly or directly say, the government's measures. Some measures may be well, some measures may not be as good as criticism, accepted. There are measures that are good, there are measures that are not so good, but the reality is one: that is because in Greece, on the one hand, we have a very high number of uninvasive people over the age of sixty, because we have a great problem with the ageing population that we have in our country. It's the oldest population in Europe. And it is because of the way in which the coronary deceased are counted statistically. On the substance of the matter, the dead are dead and this is a tragedy. Finally, I shall end, Mr President. The accuracy was sure he'd come. You're talking about 5.1% inflation. But, of course, 5% is all over Europe. In the United States it's 7%. It is not a Greek phenomenon, the accuracy of it. It is a result that anyone who knows very much financially knows that since he has been printed so much money to support our societies and economies during the pandemic and lockdown could not be done differently. Productivity decreased, cost of energy and transport increased. How else would that have happened? And that is an issue that really affects the government and the country and society and the ordinary citizen, but we do everything possible in the context of the logic and the possibilities we have. Appropriations, as you ask, can't be done. On the one hand, you ask for tax exemptions and on the other hand, you ask for increases, appointments. It is the only measure you have, increases, appointments and tax exemptions. Everything will be done as far as possible within the financial possibilities of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, too. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor, and immediately after the speech, the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanese, will take Mr. Lebanese. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u100	We welcome the protesters who are now out on Syntagma Square, claiming modern infrastructure and protection of human life, people's lives. They're right. We're with them. And how not to protest when the government and region bombed us with their grand plans for the snow that were boasted in anomaly. The criminal shortage of snow measures, which knew the beginning, duration, inclusion and what areas it will hurt, jeopardizing the lives of thousands of people. There's a reason. It has the same starting point as the killing floods and fires in Mandra, Eye on SYRIZA or the destructive floods and the dead of "January" or "Medea" or the great fires in Evia, Laconia and elsewhere or with the snow "Elpida" with the Government of New Democracy. That is, history repeats itself and no matter how outrageous it is, it doesn't surprise us. Because it is the anti-grassroots strategy of the present and the previous governments, which serve the urban state, namely the guarantee of capitalist profits for business groups. This urban, finally as you say, state is the arsonist and router of popular needs. In fact, when disaster occurs between you is the number of people who are dead to hide the same strategy, that together you are serving the needs of entrepreneurs and not peoples in health, civil protection, cheap energy and so on. Did all these disasters over the last five years not disappear popular properties and labors of life? And what corrections did you make? And what compensation did you give? Corodias, just like now with the double of the Attica Road. Will you compensate farmers for the abundance of snow? The answer is given by farmers to their tractor condolences, now, at this time. They demand the design and completion of the anti-military works and leave the patches after the damages of "Jan" to compensate ELGA 100% and not to exclude mechanical equipment and tools that have been destroyed and the cleaning of land, farmable land that has been mudded and bearable materials or suffered erosion and partitioning. I mean, there's no pay cutters you're all maintaining. As there are outstanding repayments from old compensations to flood victims. Mostly, they require immediate relief measures to make up for lost income, since production costs are torn apart by expensive current and oil. These are the results of the frustration, the RES and the privatisation of PPC and TENP which, in part, today and before, you have promoted through the European Community's direction of energy liberation. Therefore, it is not only the thousands of snow damage that left the household to rest. So what are the farmers affected waiting for in Marathon, Boeotia, Evia, Peloponnese and other areas from the snow and ice of "Elpida"? One of the same as the floods of the 'January'. And in order not to forget, the low rate of excise duty on agricultural oil was abolished in the third memorandum of SYRIZA, which you voted for, and New Democracy and Change Movement. That's the truth. But also to microprofessionals, self-employed, the turnover declined. They have no liquidity at all. Over a third sees a lock in the next space. Will the new development law that you are promoting make necessary infrastructure for the people, or will micro-enterprises join? Of course not. He is exclusively cut and sewn for the needs of large businesses, entrepreneurship told us before the Minister for Maritime Affairs. We will be told by the Agriculture Minister, who will follow, and by the government as a whole. However, only seven hundred and forty-four small businesses in a total of eight hundred thousand were integrated in the former development of SYRIZA! Not even 0.01%! This is your bourgeois state. In fact, provocative in areas such as agrifood, processing, tourism, alternative tourism, large investments and European value chains will be granted by the development agency increased to 100% for investments in areas affected by natural disasters. It is challenging, because in the affected regions there is a great deal of delay in the state compensation to microprofessionals, farmers and others, who have suffered considerable damage. However, money and benefits are being channelled to a handful of larger businesses. This is the mirror of your development. Moreover, growth in favour of the people with capitalist governments cannot be carried out because the capitalist's profit serves. That's why people's suffering is not the last. He will be exposed to constant dangers to his life, rights and future. The more powerful people are being strengthened, the more ruthless they become. Such enclosures on avenues, precision in energy and, basically, cost of agricultural production, public health, etc. They'll get worse. Economic interests don't change, they don't give up. But the workers, the people must change, trust the JRC and rid the place of the harassers and robbers of the wealth it produces. So we need a coordinated fight from a movement with anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist direction, against the European Union and NATO, which massiveizes its action and distracts the people. Every day there is increasing the gap between modern technological and scientific capabilities - and snow and pandemic - to ensure social well-being in the current situation of relative and absolute impoverishment, insecurity experienced by employees, self-employed, unemployed and retired people. Therefore, the answer to the acute people's problems in the 21st century of digitisation is the socialist way of production and not capitalist barbarism and rot.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The sixth cycle will then be closed with the intervention of Maria Kefala from New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Notopoulou from SYRIZA, Mr. Konstantinos Bogdanou from the independent MPs and the intervention of the Minister of Infrastructure Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis. The Minister for Rural Development and Food now has the floor, Mr Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, that is clear, because Mr Tsipras, former coffers and talented leader, is actually trying to get away from his deadlock, seeing his personal and party popularity collapsed. The tabling of the motion of censure against the government following all the remaining failed political initiatives simply highlights your political and political desperation. So so far, what do you do? On the one hand, Mr. Tsipras dragged himself into multiple defeats by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and loses himself with at least a double result - doble score - in polling on the suitability for Prime Minister. On the other hand, it will receive substantial internal fires, through your party, through your oldest MPs, to restore the traditions of the left-wing priesthood. Unfortunately, however, for Mr Tsipras himself, but also for SYRIZA, a third side of pressure has already been added, which he seems to be unable to withstand. The wider political reality shows that SYRIZA decomposes socially and is marginalized politically. And now his only objective, as we have said in the national Parliament, is to supremacy the PASOK, so that a third party does not come to the forthcoming elections. You blame the polls, Mr. Tsipras, but you're all running behind them. You forget, however, that you are a Dedicated Opposition with an institutional role and you have institutional responsibilities. Of course, you are not surprised by anyone, neither by us nor by the rest of the opposition, nor by the Greek people. It is well known that all you care about is the joints of power, what you will do on the second time on the left, which will be otherwise, said by Mr. Paulakis, who just before he left the Chamber. You are nourished by denial and the trouble. You are his party 'anti', his party 'no' at all. But because the people have a memory, they also have a crisis, they also have a real anxiety about our national course, they sent you - to remember politicians speaking in your soul - to the time of history. He cleaned you up forever. But let's remember why. Because you were the government that closed down the banks, which broke the middle class, which closed the eye to the violence of the 'Rubicon', when at the same time it ran against the extreme right, the nationalist right that attempted to manipulate justice and put persecution against political opponents without compromising anything that you devastated during your four-and-a-half years of rule - national credibility abroad. That was your government and for these achievements we will remember you for as long as we remember you, if we remember you. Someone would have expected two and a half years in the opposition to have changed to SYRIZA, to sit and work, to suggest solutions to the big problems. But you don't mind. With old and worn materials, you are again announcing the same things and making the same mistakes, adding of course new ones. But times have changed. The pandemic, the extreme weather phenomena, the energy crisis, all these global phenomena that you want to blame as responsibilities in the New Democracy create new conditions and people see. The people on the one hand see an anti-population of sterile refusal, which refers absolutely to yesterday, a party undermining the social good of the micro-party interest, a opposition that only has one purpose, the reassignment of power, the abundance of the state. On the other hand, he sees the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis who is trying, fighting, losing, but fighting. And when something goes wrong, like last week, it doesn't hesitate to take political responsibility. He's redesigning, correcting and looking forward. He also does something you don't know, you don't have it in your political DNA, he knows to apologize whenever he needs to, as he did with honesty last week. It sees a government that for two and a half years has been trying, running and producing work, bringing up the country that you in four and a half years have wasted, reducing the taxes that you have launched, attracts investments which you have passionately persecuted, protecting the national borders as it did in Evros when you said that the sea has no borders. It restricts the migratory flows that you called 'welcomers'. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government has been called upon to deal with unprecedented crises in a very short time. That is neither an excuse nor a political alibi. The people do not vote for us for the easy, but above all for the difficult ones. And this government has proved and constantly proves that it knows how to fight for the hard. In the unprecedented crises that we have experienced since the first moment we have stood and are still standing on the side of our tested fellow citizens. And to come in particular to the subject of my ministry, the support of our producers in the unprecedented conditions of the parallel international crises, Mr Arahovitis, - it is not only domestic of these crises - and the relocation of the primary sector is a central pillar of this government's policy. We are strengthening social cohesion by laying the foundations for rural development. We support our producers who are put on the table with all our powers and with what means we really have, from the pandemic, natural disasters and the energy crisis. I know that whatever we do, there will always be problems and we will not be able to solve all the problems. But we do what we can. She said Mrs. Manolakou a few ago and she's probably right. We cannot just fix all the problems, but we are trying and trying honestly and within the specific suffocating financial framework in which we live. So in 2021 we paid an amount of 1 billion euros and the recent bad weather, as we did in 'Janus', 'Medea', to the unprecedented frost of last spring, to the fires and to the heat of summer, we stand by them with sincerity. We, the Government of New Democracy, Mr Arachovitis, have held up the ELGA that you delivered to us on the edge of the cliff. If you stayed a few more months, you wouldn't have. It is Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, who strengthened ELGA, giving him the cash that held him up. It wasn't Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister, who did it for five years. Only last year did the housewife ELGA pay EUR 330 million for compensation directly and effectively in a few months' time when you, Mr Arachovitis, have the courage to laugh at the moment, you paid in three and four years compensation and troubled our farmers, and the entire Greek people know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u103	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u104	It was you who, when you left in 2019, did not even pay the damages of 2017, which we paid last December to keep their money from being lost, in 2017, Mr Arachovitis. We are the government that has again legislated - rightly Mrs Manolakou told you - the refund of excise duty on oil, the 80% coverage of the adjustment clause, the subsidy for the period from now on with 50% of the agricultural tariff. Here we are and will support all the forces we have, but also the means we have on the basis of the financial data, all the farmers, all the producers. You are the government that has abolished the reimbursement of excise duty, which has dissolved PPC, and you are now still coming and asking for the change for PPC to materially accumulating debts. It is the New Democracy Government that made a record in 2020-2021 in absorbing European funds from the Rural Development Programme and the PSC. We paid EUR 740 million this year from the ESDP, with 94% new pensions in the middle of COVID, when you, Mr Arachovitis - and I wish your Members would answer - had a very poor 47% year of your best year of five years. You had 47% at best, we had 94% this year. It was us, this government, which ran the PSC, paying 158 million euros with eighty-five million new memberships in 2021, when your government almost dropped the programme on the rocks with almost zero absorption. It is the Government of the New Democracy - to come to what you said before - which has carried out the largest infrastructure projects since the 1950s with the water programme 'Water 2.0' and the PPPs that you do not want to understand, because you have been stuck in the past, amounting to EUR 4.6 billion over twenty-five years, to change what Mrs Manolakou was right to say, infrastructure projects. When you were sweating just for the farmers' eyes, you joined the Rural Development Programme just a week before the elections - on July 2, 2019, Mr Arachovitis - EUR 445 million, which had no maturity. For four and a half years you have not matured and did not carry out any serious irrigation, while - since you want the Greek people to hear your reality and history - you received seventy projects in January 2015 from the "ALEXANDROS BALTATZIS". That's who you are. Words, words, attempts to exploit micro-partners and nothing. We are the government that puts the knife on the bones of fraud and illegal Hellenism, making substantial and effective checks to safeguard our products, for the benefit of producers at the end of the day. We activated the Ministry's committees by opening files that were in the drawers for your day. We imposed dozens of fines, when you had not imposed one, fines of EUR 250,000, EUR 150,000, EUR 160,000, when you had not fined a single euro. The result is tangible. Price in sheep's milk from 0.80 euros went to 1.30 euros. The producer wins. It comes to help him in the difficult times he is going through today with feedingstuffs, which is indeed a big issue, and we are trying to find ways to cover it and feels, however, above all, security, seeing that the state at last controls and delivers justice. We are the government that invests in rural education and training by setting up six new IEKs. We are planning a lot throughout Greece next year to link local production training and reduce unemployment. We are the government that has more than doubled the sum for young farmers. The government that made the programme of agricultural advisers. Training is now being done throughout the country. You were the party who for four years has been unaware of all the issues of education and training in the agricultural sector. You have not even announced the programme of agricultural advisers and went to the sea to EUR 80 million. We saved it for the last minute to get it out of the year. We are the government which, for the first time, has created a positive export-import balance for our agricultural products for two consecutive years. And in 2020 and 2021, when you didn't even have a strategy to increase our product sales for branding, for our external rural relations. If you've filed it in the Minutes. We are the government that achieved the great success of the new CFP where we maintained EUR 19.6 billion when the whole old Europe lost about 15%. And all this was done with the Prime Minister's personal contribution to this negotiation. While you were the government of the juurnades, the go back, the dreams of Mr Varoufakis, the illusion of Mr Tsipras and ultimately of the unstable European policy. The government that risked, which played the fates of the country, which accepted as an alternative to stand by, to lose valuable European resources. Ladies and gentlemen, the people judge us all and their judgment is clear. He trusts - and we see this in every corner of Greece - for his Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. He trusts his Government because despite the problems, despite the mistakes we make, he sees that there is a plan, there is a vision to keep the country up to the greatest challenges in our modern history. So we move forward with the people on our side. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to say by closing that you, at the same time as our government, are choosing to stay back. You're on your own and the worst, what hurts you most, it's that society no longer follows you at all, and I think it's no longer watching you. You are fully voyaged to one-digit rates, and that is what really belongs to you. You have caused us a pointless challenge this three-day period and you have stopped the parliamentary procedure, the development law - which is certainly not of interest to you - with the naive, essentially, a motion of censure. But you gave the Greek people the opportunity once again to certify this abyss that separates us at all political levels. You know well and we know that your buffet was unbelievable. You will receive the answer on Sunday evening when the New Democracy Parliamentary Group meets to vote against the opposing motion of censure you are making. You have, however, and I think I also express our parliamentary group, sincerely our understanding of your anxiety about remaining at the end of a Civic Opposition until the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u106	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Colleague, what's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u108	The Minister personally referred to me more than seven or eight times. I didn't have time to count. We'll see it in the Minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u109	Mr Colleague, you are not talking to the Minister right now. You're talking to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u110	I have referred to your policy, not to you personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u111	Minister, please. Mr Colleague, please, if it is on personal grounds I will give you the floor. If it is not on personal grounds that the Minister referred to you, I do not think it is on personal grounds and I cannot give you the floor. Is there anything on personal grounds? Please tell me in a few words what your staff is to see if it's personal. Just a few words.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u112	Sure. In a few words. Personal assault by Minister to parliamentarians, the report repeatedly shows the panic that exists in the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u113	This is not on personal grounds, Mr President. Please. You know the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u114	Madam President, please. You have a very big experience. Personal reference from Minister to MP repeatedly shows a panic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Comrade, listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u116	If you're kind...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Comrade, I just got up on the Step. Please. I do not think that it is a practice that we do not all know about. We're all doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u118	Sure. I'd like for a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u119	Please, you can't answer that. You know that. You can't answer that. Do you know why you can't answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u120	I didn't mention in my place...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Comrade. Please turn off the microphone to my colleague. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Colleagues, whenever he speaks to the Chamber and personally speaks to someone, if he does not insult him, it does not mean that he has to take the floor to speak. Then it's our Woman. There'd be a mess. The Minister said a number of things which, if they are not offensive to you, I think it was a political criticism that he had every right to do, as you and I do when we get to Stepma. There's nothing personal. Please. We must continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u122	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u123	Do you know how many times you've all gone up to the Step and you're personally referring to colleagues? Let me tell you right now, Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u124	When the Minister personally refers...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Colleague, don't embarrass me. Mr Colleagues, the Minister referred to fifteen names and not just to yours. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u126	I've never mentioned personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Comrade, do you know how many times we're all talking in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u128	Do what you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Colleague, I don't do what I want. You know that. I'm holding a Rules of Procedure, and that's who I'm applying. Please very much. Please. I apply a regulation that we have all accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u130	You are interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u131	I don't interpret the Rules of Procedure. There is a rule and I apply it to him. Let me read the article so we won't let any impressions. At the moment, all Greece is watching us in the most serious debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u132	Do what you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u133	Listen, Mr. Comrade. Rule 68(1) states: ‘Personal matter shall be considered to be the reproach which contains an individual hybrid event against a Member of the Government or a member of the Government and the performance to a speaker of a different opinion than that expressed’. Am I clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u134	Interpretation of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u135	Rules say so. It's not my interpretation. I'm reading the Rules of Procedure. Ms. Chapter of New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a panic of terror, fear, and panic. So only we can describe the atmosphere that prevails in SYRIZA. Fear with the findings of public trends, which two and a half years after your elections show, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you are taking a steady fall and at the same time that the government enjoys the confidence of the majority of the Greek people. Fear, because you feel the hot breath of the Change Movement, with which you will fight hard as shown by the position of the opposition officer in the next election. Panic, because you see your political future ominous, a constant orbit to 3% - wherever you belong - unable to escape your political deadlocks. That is why, trying to deal with your political depression, you have resorted to this top parliamentary procedure, a highly predictable move that is primarily directed at your interiors and your former voters who are'moving your handkerchief'. You believed that such a move would put you out of the difficult position you are in, help you to regain locally and put you at the heart of the developments. You are vain, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if you have the slightest thought that you can mislead the citizens again. That's what happens once! The motion of censure against the government, which you tabled as a lasting, hopeless attempt at political survival, will turn you back into a boomerang. It is a very good opportunity to show, once again, our great differences: ideological, political and worldview. There are two different worlds in Parliament these three days. One represents realism, progress, and confidence, the other the screams, the mess, the uncertainty. Four and a half years have been too much for the most skeptical citizen to understand how inappropriate you are to rule the country. You think the Greeks forgot who closed the banks, who mortgaged the public property for a hundred years, who unnecessarily charged us 100 billion euros? In what situation would the country really be if the last two and a half years were SYRIZA in the government? Let us consider what we would be living if the global health crisis that we are experiencing was managed by you. It doesn't need much imagination. Think of what would happen if we followed your exhortations to the management of the pandemic. We open the schools, yell out why we open them. Schools are closed, you're shouting because we're shutting them down. You're negative of everything, and you're mostly negative of reality. Remember only your strains with what the vaccines, our main weapons, that is, against this health war, are fighting. Only one word is appropriate in the case of 'happily'. Fortunately, at this difficult juncture of our country's Prime Minister is Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in front of unprecedented situations and have been called upon to make important, critical decisions, with conflicting data being weighed several times. From the outset, we have set as the main objective the protection of human life. Since the beginning of this war, the government has undertaken the burden of the political decision to greatly reduce economic activity and freedom of movement, seeking to minimize human losses. At the same time, we have spread a protection net to businesses and workers, providing security and protection to the maximum extent. Jobs have not been lost. We have created tools through which we have kept the companies affected by the pandemic and, most importantly, we have kept the National Health System upright. We supported it with thousands of healthcare in order to be able to provide high-level services to the citizens who needed it and who need it. We have faced and continue to face a difficult reality, a state of dynamics that is constantly evolving and requires constant vigilance, quick reflexes and decisions that will be adapted to new data every time. From now on, however, these two years have seen the state's digital revolution. Gov.gr is part of our daily lives of millions of fellow citizens and a tool that saves us thousands of hours of waiting and suffering in the tails, drastically reducing bureaucracy. The country entered a new era. The development train moves on solid bases and it is demonstrated by all foreign rating houses that now face Greece as a reliable country with a promising economy and stable development prospects. We are strengthening our country's defence of all threats to modern latest technology weapons systems. We protect our land and sea borders - because they are also there - and we protect them sufficiently from Evros to Kastelorizo with the extremely effective reaction of the Greek Armed Forces every time the circumstances require it. We keep Greece up and give the answers we need. On this path, the government and our parliamentary group as a fist are fighting every day for the big and small, with the Prime Minister himself, a Prime Minister who is not hiding in the difficults and has the courage and majesty to recognise any mistakes, failures and weaknesses and heal them. After all, we alone have set the battlefield of expectations high. We still have work to do. But even through whatever weaknesses we are evolving and transforming Greece into a modern European country. Ladies and gentlemen, the governance of the country is a serious matter, as is the parliamentary procedure in which we are in. In this process, there are neither half any avoidances nor abstentions, such as those of the Change Movement: yes, in SYRIZA's motion of distrust against the government, but not in early elections. It can't be the whole pie and the dog's full. Politics requires clear positions, clear proposals and ability to transform the slogan into action. We are here to assure the Greek people that the government is strong, united and determined, and the motion for distrust of SYRIZA will be voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u137	Thank you too, my colleague. Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Madam President. The motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras, comes at the most critical time. It doesn't work anymore! Society requires a substantial way out, society requires dignity, responsibility, perspective. The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, is a leading political act, but, above all, it is an act of empathy with the Greek people who are so tortured. You have proved that you cannot respond either to the demands of the times. Your government has thrown white towel on all fronts. You are completely ineffective and ineffective. Your government is incapable of reacting to the majors, of protecting citizens from bad weather to pandemic from reducing income. You are, of course, very effective in serving specific, great interests of the few. You have shared over 5.5 billion euros directly and you do not get enough. You made the crisis a chance in the greatest tragedy our country lives in. The damage to the country, to democracy, to the citizens, to society is really incalculable. Today, while we are talking, our country records a macabre record of deaths from the coronary throughout Europe, lives that would have been saved if you had strengthened the National Health System. Today your final state was buried under the snow, a "final" state you declared, that you advertised it was ready to face the bad weather, but paralyseeded from the early hours. Your ultimate inadequacy proved stronger than all predictions. But you arrived to say it was the irresponsible citizens who took their vehicles, you came to say that it was the meteorologists who had not foreseen in time, who had not notified you of the phenomena, something completely untrue, lie. You accused the Attica Road, which insists, however, that the Minister for Civil Protection was clearly against the preventive curfew. At the same time, the participation of the state of the Grand Maximos in coordination is revealed. Your lies are falling apart one by one. What is the final state of Mr. Mitsotakis? Citizens locked in for hours endless in their vehicles, others locked in trains, mothers and children without water and milk, hundreds of houses and households without heating, without current for too many days, elderly, patients begging for help locked and excluded hospitals excluded. This is your final state. And instead of getting the most responsible, the Prime Minister of the Government of the Excellents, taking responsibility, came out to whistle a so-called apology and transfer responsibilities without shame, without consciousness of responsibility. The word self-criticism, of course, has been lost in the communication figurines, in the communication bubbles. But what are you really trying to do? What are you trying to convince the people with the Pizza lists or the messages on teleshops lately? Are you trying to convince that we live in the land of the excellent people who are all going well and are developing where citizens are safe and there is no problem? We live in this country! In this country with the tragedy, in this country where everyday life has become truly inviolable because of your own governance. What have you done for two and a half years? Coronary death record, lives that could have been saved. Precision record, record of reducing income, record of disasters. Incapable of managing weather phenomena, you said you would evacuate Eye in 30 minutes, but you left the fires in Evia to reach the sea to erase. Where's your final state? Unseen in the floods, unseen in the fires in Evia and throughout the country, unseen in "Medea". You're not taught anything. The Prime Minister, when the whole of Attica paralyzed for days. You have proved that while you are in power there is no hope that the Greek people will expect anything. You are the government, and this is even worse, when it is anguish, at the time of insecurity, at the time of the tragedy you cannot feel and feel the anxiety of the citizen. The Prime Minister proudly made it in 2021, because as far as the dead were concerned, twenty-three thousand people were lost, but you supposedly saved the economy, supposedly kept it open, supposedly saved tourism, supposedly we have growth. You are insulting all citizens with this, but above all you are insulting the families who mourn their victims from the coronary. In fact, bigger cynicism we haven't lived and we haven't seen in political history. So don't look for an alibi in tourism either. You and your incompetent government are to blame, because you have moved there with the logic of the autopilot. You left him without a plan, no operational preparedness. You did not strengthen the National Health System. There's not even a sample, nowhere tracking, nowhere testing, nowhere safety. You left the islands unarmed. We've become a humiliation outside. As far as the programmes to assist small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, the majority of them have remained out of any support measure. They put on padlocks. We call on you that two and a half years now the damage that counts is endless. As far as workers are concerned, you rejected our amendments that would give solutions to the problem of survival of two hundred thousand seasonal workers in tourism. That's who you are. It's called analgesia. People don't have to live. But you don't care how they live. You are interested in how the rich become richer, how to close deals, how to reach the agreements you want, how to gain more private education and the grandchildren. The Prime Minister himself has arrived to take the role of an Ombudsman in the Attica Street, in the backs of the Greek citizens and to share a billions to hide the bluntness of your state of service. No matter how much money the Pecha list throws to show the media good for the government, the citizen is insecurity, ladies and gentlemen. He understands the reality in his wallet, in his pocket, in the accounts of the ECJ and the supermarket. Tell us how people live with 20% price increases? With a 2% increase of the threshold? With 5% inflation? How's the electricity going to be paid? How will he pay for the heating? How will he live his children? You've become the hospitals, hospitals, a disease. The surgery has been postponed in Thessaloniki for months. Alas, if you need a hospital or a doctor. In central Macedonia we mourn more deaths than in Attica. The Tsiodra-Lytra study came to highlight the mess in Thessaloniki and you condemned it. It's too heavy a blood tax. Black Novembers, black Decembers for our city over and over. Our fellow citizens are lost. And in this Thessaloniki you deprive critical infrastructure, from health units to the subway and the ancients you take, up to buses, to Egnatia railways, to the center of logistics in the “Gonnos” camp. Ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing a tragedy without end. Over twenty-three thousand of our fellow humans have been lost. A hundred people die every day. You left society unprotected. In each house fear and insecurity are nestled at all levels. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, leaving this government is a matter of life, it is a question of democracy. Greece can no longer tolerate this authoritarian, failed, rotten regime. There is nothing left but you leave, because you have already lost the most important, trust of the Greek people. And you know what?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u139	You've got to close up, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u140	I shall conclude, Madam President, in ten seconds. The Greek people do not feel the slightest hope with your stay in the government. Disillusion and lack of perspective become a veiler for change. We're not leaving the country in the dark. The motion of censure is the way to return hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u141	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Bogdanos has the floor on behalf of the independent Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, some people in the party may put personal agendas over the Prime Minister and the integrity of the parliamentary group and modulate developments with parliamentary viewing, but we are not all the same. Some of us have ideology and moral backbone. And it may be that as a liberal, conservative, right-wing congressman, loyal to my anti-communist authorities I do not belong today to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, but I am not a opportunist or an independent Greek, so that I can ally with SYRIZA against it. On the other hand, however, we still have in front of us the break-up of a state which has unfortunately proved to be more 'electile' rather than final. Yeah, the previous government wouldn't do better. I guess it would be much worse. And yes, this motion of censure is a political firework with self-defence. Yes, it is a challenge that this Qualified Opposition speaks of civil protection. But, from this government on many levels, we have waited for a whole lot more. One day it snowed and we collapsed. Everything worked wrong. Provisions, warnings, suggestions of competent services and persons were first ignored. Then, when it was understood what was happening, the reaction was disappointing. And since everything has failed, with thousands of people trapped in the streets and with two thousand households without power to show us that it may not be worth shutting down the lignites to introduce 11% of our electricity from Italy, Albania, Skopje, Bulgaria, Turkey and after literally cleansing the Greek Army and the Security Body - and we thank you once again - then some - and indeed against the spirit and the prime minister's apology - tried to transfer the responsibilities to the EMY, the Attica Road, even to the citizens, who were the worst of all things, very bad. And all this is not only the responsibility of an airport transfer, which proved in the first major crisis that it doesn't work for a place you need to know from discipline, know Greece and always be at 100%, or die people. No, this was not the responsibility of Mr. Stylianides alone, who obviously should have submitted his resignation. This is primarily a matter of mentality. It is a sign of the climate of a government that day after day is removed from the people. It's a failure of a director who, after the pollsters, dares not displease with truths the Chief. They are ineffective officials who, unfortunately, often put their personal pursuits above the common good. And not all of this was an individual upside down. On the contrary, it comes as a continuation of a series of painful choices and omissions. The New Democracy has been saddened by many people who until before believed it very much. Especially Athens, my region, which paralysed last week, is now slapping. Explosions in illegal mosques, such as days ago, subsidised replacement of population in the centre of the capital, constant attacks on churches, incidents outside structures and squares of supposedly minor unaccompanied ministers, ministers who tell us that the occupation at the HEI is a right, everyday and systematic deterioration of the rights and freedoms of Greek citizens and all this in a city that is expensive, dirty and dangerous. If anyone said buying the absolutely necessary weapons is enough to pinch the right ones, it was wrongly believed. You can buy a F-35 fleet, however, while you let the representatives of the country shut it down as a city to deliver it to the Pakistani people, as the trade unionists, communists, leftists, but also some unscrupulous youths of the arrogant elites have more rights than the taxpayer Greek citizen, who in the end always "pays the marble", as the ERT hires and highlights every river, every left, but does not dare one night to play the "Helena" of Gatziani, both injustice and so discomfort about devaluation accumulates and so many more housewives, but do not dare one night play the "Helena" of Gatziani, especially their young people and their children. Where are the many well-paid jobs? Yeah, the coroner's here, absolutely acceptable. But where are our brave, liberal reforms? It is clear that the New Democracy is not a right-wing party, but is it now more economically liberal than the Social Democrats? When Nikos Hatzinikolau asks ‘How do you deal with the socketing unemployment?’ and takes as an answer 'with investments' as a whole, not by reducing wage costs, not by removing the mandatory state insurance, when we do not dare to touch it - let us admit it - the public and its privileges, then someone is entitled to even so doubt. It is not a question of liberalism, ladies and gentlemen, it does not mean Meo and NGO. It means before and above all low taxes, little state, nomadicism and parity. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece needs a government that only cares for the people, never for the elites, who will organise the country with justice and discipline in order to claim even the last EEZ infatuation of our country, so that it does not hesitate to destroy Turkish drones over our islands, to create real conditions for the production of wealth from the citizens, not for the large multinationals of the few, and not to 'grave' to every voiceless minority at the expense of the whole. In conclusion, I must tell you that the New Democracy needs a resounding alarm. If, therefore, the commitment to run out of the four-year period is true, there is time. And I wish with my attitude in the debate and in the vote on the motion of censure to benefit New Democracy as a voice of awakening. I hope that the message will come strong and clear from a man who grew up and has been manned in the New Democracy and today - believe me - represented as an independent MP, among others, many thousands of frustrated neo-democrats. If not, clean conscience. Democracy, said Paul Bakoyannis, has no dead ends and has no dead ends precisely because in democracy everyone and everyone has a right to be represented. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u143	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Karamanlis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' motion of censure, his constitutional right, but also a political weapon that has been in opposition for years, gives this Chamber and all of us the opportunity to put everything down calmly and soberly and compare, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA with you, to see what you have done and to see what we have done. I think the last thing that concerns all of us in this Chamber and I think the last thing that concerns the citizens is why the Chief of Staff has done this desperate attempt. Other colleagues have mentioned these facts, they have given their own interpretations. You will allow me not to come back. However, what I think we should emphasise has a policy, if you like, an interpretation that we should not hide under the carpet, because what we need to note is that in the country today we have a Civic Anti-Civilisation which systematically attempts to transform every crisis that falls in the country into an opportunity for itself. He's not just doing it now, he's been doing it for two and a half years. He did it in 2015 in the era of the antimony insanity. So the so-called'structural' opposition you are taking, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, which is in your political DNA ultimately does not help either the place, but it does not help the political dialogue either, because you will allow me to say that it must also be accompanied by a 'these'. Do you have any solutions to suggest? Do you have any suggestions? Unfortunately, no, just screams. And if I judge, ladies and gentlemen, from the fact that in this Chamber today we have only three Members present from the Civilian Opposition Officers, who have even made the motion of censure, I think that is all they say, a picture of a thousand words. What have we done in this crisis? Let's start with the simple one. We didn't hide behind our finger. We have recognised the shortcomings of the state machine, the problems in coordination, the failures of many operators, and we have for the first time blamed the private, Attica, the concessionaire. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all understand the anger and frustration and anger of the citizens, which is why we apologise, not pretext. The Prime Minister has asked for immediate compensation to be granted to those who have been afflicted, which was the first time. Look. There are two different ways of dealing with such a crisis. One is to fight as far as you can, to recognize the mistakes you made, the failures, to ask bravely for forgiveness, to find out what caused structures or even faces, and to work hard so that you don't repeat these mistakes. This is the way of governing Mr. Mitsotakis. There is another way, however, which let us not forget why you unfortunately followed him, to play the theater at the time of the tragedy in front of television cameras and days later, without you knowing what has happened, completely cut off from reality, top ministers say that no matter how much they're looking, they can't find a serious mistake. We all know what government this was. Citizens have lived both and so they can compare and judge. So let's go in the case of the Attica Road. Without, under any circumstances, being an excuse, it is not, unfortunately, the first time that a large motorway is closed. But listen. This is the first time that we have been able to bear responsibility. Why? Because from our own government and from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the legal framework for liability for concessionaires was introduced in 2020 when motorways were closed. We have therefore introduced Article 65 of Law 4663 to put an end to the problem of creating problems on the road and then no one has a responsibility. We therefore need responsibility, sanctions will be imposed and this will be done. So what did we do? We have already set up the Committee of Inquiry and in twenty days from now - not six months, in twenty days from today - we will wait for its finding and will be responsible. All these years, that's not happening. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, did not do so. We did, because we are the patriotic party that does not care for private interests and where there are responsibilities we come and deliver them. So the Attica Road has responsibilities both in the prevention and in the management of the crisis. And not just that. It is also the first time that the Prime Minister is personally intervening and asking, demanding that the private company pay money to those who have been troubled. All these years, that's never happened before. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, didn't do it. We did it. And, in fact, I wonder how it is possible, after all that has been done, to be buffaloes and not to tell us whether or not you agree with this proposal by the Prime Minister and this application of compensation. And so that nothing is left without a reply, let's go see, ladies and gentlemen, one by one, and the rest of the snow issues related to the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. We are going to the 'TRAINOSE' routes, which, as you also know, are a private company, because you privatised it in the way you privatised it. Have there been problems on the Athens-Thessaloniki axis? Of course they did. There were five trains with six hundred people, our fellow citizens, trapped. Each case shall be investigated in detail. We have again come here and asked TRAINOSE to pay EUR 1 000 for our fellow citizens who have been afflicted, while the Regulatory Authority, an independent authority, imposed a fine of EUR 100,000. Let's go to the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos". Technically, the airport didn't close. Flights which were not made were cancelled either due to problems of passenger and staff attending or due to weather conditions. In order to keep the airport open, the Civil Aviation Service managed - because there was a plan - to safely move the staff and especially air traffic controllers, but also to ensure reciprocity for fuelling radar generators. Also - and here's a controversy, if you want - the AIA has worked. And not only did it work and managed as a serious private body to have the airport open, but also at the time of the crisis, at 10 o'clock in the evening, when its suburban "TRAINOSE" entered so that it could get from Attica the enclaves who were in vulnerable groups, opened up its rooms so that he could serve them. Here, then, there are individuals who do their job well and there are individuals who do not do their job well. Let's go to the urban transport. I want to thank workers and workers in urban transport because in such a difficult situation they gave themselves the best. In order to achieve this, a very systematic work was done between the Ministry, the OSCE, the OSCE and the OSH and we had drawn up a comprehensive action plan, an action plan that included snowstorming in the means of fixed tracks, so as not to ignorance the lines, even the rental of hotels near the workplace. Thus, lines 2 and 3 of the metro worked continuously, and for some people they were the only mode of transport. Line 1, i.e. the electricity on the ground, also operated with several problems - the truth is - but with the exception of a section, namely the "Erene" and "Kifisia" stations, where there were many problems, the next day he was given to the operation. A similar situation existed in tram and eventually in buses and trolleyes traffic, as you all imagine, obviously depended on the state of the road. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance for two or three minutes, Madam President. Monday, then, what did we do in the morning? In any cases, particularly in the northern suburbs that were dangerous, the vehicles were withdrawn. From midday onwards, for security reasons, their circulation completely ceased. What were you suggesting then, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with the announcements you made? You have asked us why we are withdrawing buses. But can you not understand that our priority was not to be in danger? Also, the next day, on Wednesday, which was a holiday day, we managed and settled the situation in urban transport. I do not have time to discuss the matter in detail and, like other honourable ministers, make a statement on the subject of the Ministry. In a couple of minutes left to close, I would just like to point out that there is a very big effort in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to get a plan in place and slowly to unlock flagship projects. And we have done this because we have already settled EUR 3.2 billion in two and a half years, when your government had entered into an agreement within four and a half years of EUR 800 million. I think those figures tell reality. In transport and urban transport, unfortunately, we received a few buses. We have received a situation that is extremely problematic, and we have had increases, and we have bought and cooperated with the private sector. But the motion of censure is being tabled here because you are trying to convince all of us and the Greek people that you can manage such crises better. I think that this is a long way from reality, and we all know that now. Make suggestions, come to Parliament and tell us, after your criticism, what we can do, to correct the failures. But that is something you cannot do, because it is neither in your political culture nor in your DNA, and that is why this motion of censure will ultimately be a motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Giannakopoulou, has asked the floor to ask a question. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u146	Minister, I have listened very carefully to your position and the issue of bad weather. We have listened to you in essence - that was understood - to lay down all the responsibilities to others, to Attica, to individuals, as if you were saying that all of you were doing well in the field of prevention, and then in the area of restoration of responsibilities, and of course you said that the Prime Minister came out and asked for apologies. I would like to remind you that Mr Mitsotakis as Head of the opposition officer, when phenomena were with the government of SYRIZA, when he came out and spoke, called for practical responsibility, which means resignations, which actually means a return to responsibilities and initiatives. That's the alpha and the omega. And because you are telling us that you want to answer clearly and that there is no shadow - that is what you said to us - I want to ask you a very critical question. Were you involved in Sunday's critical meeting as a minister to do with public transport? So, did you participate in this critical coordination meeting on media? And from there on, let me tell you, Minister, that it is not so bold a picture in public transport, as you said, that you are doing everything really well. Three CCELs and the Liosia and Anthousa Trains, serving the snowy areas, went out! Critical paths of fixed tracks were interrupted and of course there was the accident on the rail network and there was immobilisation of trains. A second and also serious question is what plan you had, in order not to be mercifully mercifully, the Greek people, not just from the bad weather, but also from the lack of a plan - why this is clear - on the part of the government. So, what was your overall plan? Did you say so at Sunday's critical meeting? And if it didn't work, why didn't it work, Mr. Karamanlis? These are the big questions to give critical answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you will answer, I imagine. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Let's go give a clear answer to the questions you asked me. So we start with the issue of buses and trolleys. I'm really wondering. What did you want, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, for a minister to do at that time? Are you, too, of the opinion that we should do what SYRIZA told us, that we should leave buses, trams and trollies on the streets? What do you say about Anthusa? They have nothing to do with reality. We shut it down because of the severe snowfall, based on a plan we had. Even on Monday and Tuesday morning at 5.30pm, a meeting had taken place and had taken place as supervisors to see and assess what road conditions are and similarly to come out of buses. So I do not understand your question. You wanted to leave buses and trolleys on the streets of Athens in these circumstances? I think that is not a serious question, because the answer is quite clear that this is not being done anywhere. Now we're going to the coordination and deliberations. Who participated and not at this meeting is something that is well known. Two press releases have come out. Our problem is who participated or whether we were finally able to deal with this crisis adequately? It is obvious that we have not dealt with it sufficiently. It is obvious that this is why we are the only political party at the place that apologized. Tell me when this has happened? This apologies were not pretentious because this apology was followed by specific acts. We're here, and we said we're going to pay compensation to those who've been afflicted. Really when has that happened? Do the opposition parties agree with this measure? Here we are, here is the temple of democracy in which the dialogue takes place and tell us whether the Prime Minister should do this or not. Does this give an example of the future that 'large individuals when you do not do your job well will fall'? I think these are issues that we need to discuss. Like the fact that the Ministry had provided for it, because since 2020 it has done an institutional framework that will give administrative sanctions to any concessionaire who is not doing his job well. Finally, to say that there have been omissions, mistakes have been made. But in this crisis, I think that very important conclusions have been drawn as to what all the actors involved in a crisis should do. Really, was there a Ministry responsible for the climate crisis and all these problems that we have been facing all these years? Oh, no. Are you in favour of giving this structure, as we do from the Recovery Fund, money to be able to stand up? That's a nice wrench, that's good to rock each other here. But here we must come and discuss seriously how we can from such a major crisis, draw conclusions to make the state better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the rapid tests have been completed and are all negative. The check will be repeated tomorrow from 14.00 to 19.00 and I would ask those who have not done so to come. Mrs Papayannakis has the floor on the JRC's behalf.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u150	There's definitely a coincidence today. While SYRIZA's motion of censure against the government is being discussed, there is a great gathering, a great process initiated by the Municipality of Patras, by the labour centre and dozens, by hundreds of mass bodies, as well as their meeting with dozens of trade unions in Athens. That is the real content of the reproach that has been put out of Parliament today. We represent this reproach and have nothing to do with the reproach, which, of course, we shall vote against the government, with the purpose for which SYRIZA brought this issue to Parliament. Of course, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and usually the jurisdiction and freedom have this basically the party of Officerial Response. We denounce the government's policy, by voting not only on the terrible issue of the pandemic, the snowstorm, as it has evolved, but also on the whole of government policy. For example, the government's measures, on the measures taken by SYRIZA, on the measures taken before SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK, which lead literally to the increase in the level of exploitation of workers, the working class. For unemployment, for the complete symptom of industrial relations, for the wave of accuracy, for violence, for repression and for the strike laws. And I would add here the priority given to youth, in terms of the intensity of the exploitation. Our reproach concerns the country's involvement in intra-imperial competition. In essence, in the imperialist multi-formal policies, military interventions or threats to proclaim a war, the conversion of Greece into an even wider hostage of aggressive military bases. Of course, so that we do not forget that and that is not what the New Democracy has started. He stepped into the regime of military bases and NATO and the United States agreements since the 1950s. And there was no government in Greece - whether it was called the government of the "Third Way" of Socialism, the PASOK, whether it was called the "First Left" government, or anything else, or a one-party cooperation - which it was not considered to be inextricably bound by the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie and the interests of imperialist aggression. Undoubtedly not only by SYRIZA but also by the other parties, the eyes are on the ballot. Bad lies. And today it is revealed - and I am sure that this will happen tomorrow too - that only opposition can be exercised by SYRIZA and the other parties of the opposition to the New Democracy policy or the New Democracy's complaint to SYRIZA is literally a room opposition, a keyhole, an ethics and the star system. You have twisted many parties in the same room that you claim either to stay in the government, either to rotate or in the form of a new one-party government or government of cooperation. And that seemed because all the criticism of the criminal policy, the criminal management of the New Democracy in snowstorms, pandemics, and not just of course, was mainly the issue of'management', 'coordination', 'non-coordination', 'inconsistency', 'indulgence', 'indifference', etc., you say management policy has too much flexibility. If you want to accept the new Republic's policy, there could be better management in these matters, coordination, prognosis, etc., of course. But the management in general of all the problems and those that we are discussing today has very limited limits. And the limited limits are: First, support for and safeguarding capitalist profitability, the stability of the political system in order not to threaten stability, unrelenting capitalist profitability, the policy that says that the most important factor in capitalist development or the response to the capitalist crisis is to pay it off by the working class, the propaganda farmers, the poor self-employed. And by the way, I want to get an example. The problems encountered in Attica and other cases when the wave of bad weather was in other large urban centres and in the countryside, are problems of the current management of the government? Yes, there are such sides. But here there is literally a modulated state of cement. And not to go now in the 20th century, let's talk from the '50s on. It was a predetermined situation in Attica. I remember thirty and forty years ago as a party, despite the fact that the level of the corresponding science had not reached too high - today there are new ways and means - there was a prediction that we would reach a moment when the urban complex of Athens and, more generally, Attica will not be able to deal with, not what you say climate change, but the exacerbation of environmental problems. They can't handle it. And what's the problem? Is it not that there were no good architects, political engineers, citymen, etc.Huh? Above all, the commercialisation of the land, which is, of course, generalized, is one of the characteristics - not symptoms - according to capitalist profit and capitalism itself. I remind you of the following thing. In the 1950s the issue was raised. Whoever had a piece of land in Athens, a small house, a small house in the form of the adversity, gave it to and built these huge houses, and these municipalities were created full of cement. And of course this merchandise of the earth is based on the fact that the number one commodity of capitalism is the ability of man to work, the labour force, because it produces the new value, the goodwill we say, which is then incorporated into the earth, building and all needs, health, education, etc. How did Attica and the densely populated regions form today? That makes sense. And, of course, let us recognise that since capitalism cannot guarantee free popular residence - that is all socialism has shown them in periods when science and technology were much more backward, etc. - since it cannot guarantee the cheapest benefits, current, water, heating, one solution was, the reward. And when the competitivity, of course, gave thousands of people's families a home, the displaced farmers from the land sold their fields to come to Athens and it was very normal in capitalism that you cannot live if you don't have at least your own home and if you find yourself unemployed, if you find yourself with the lowest wage, at least don't owe the owner. The cost of housing in Greece, not only in Attica, and everywhere. And so all the rest of us who didn't have houses for the Attica resentment had to go down to the loans. That's it. And then we can hear that "why do you consume more than you have in your pocket? Why are you getting loans?’ And we've reached where we've arrived. Indeed, it is extremely dangerous, to the extent that we have climate change, which is due, of course, once again to the commercialisation of the land, due again to its character and the purpose of capitalist development, that even smaller weather phenomena will not be dealt with on the narrow roads, the roads that are left and right parked thousands and hundreds of cars. Where can the modern machines pass? It can't be done. Not only in the urban centres but also in the countryside. We have infrastructure in the '40s - let's make the war - of '50s, of '60s, and we're talking about 2022. This is indeed an additional reason for what we are saying, not for changing governments, but for a total overthrow of this exploitation, the rotten system, which is incompatible with human needs. As much as the members of all parties say that people are changing, that we are changing, renewing, modernising, reforming, etc. So I should like to stress the following point. I made a choice. Twenty bills made, of course, among the many - though, New Democracy is a producer of many bills made - that have been passed in Parliament and which are crucial. Their hearts are literally about the standard of living and the rights of the people. These twenty bills were passed by New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. And I am referring to the three parties, not because they were not supported by others, but because these parties are in the star system of the next election, with the individualisation of who is best: Mitsotakis, Tsipras or Androullakis. Because personalization is absolutely essential too. Not only the restriction on a party, but also the battle of people, this truly disgusting star system that we have been living in recent months. There's always been, but it's arrived at the top. These are, therefore, twenty bills. SYRIZA, in order to maintain that he also has a contrast with the New Democracy, in some he voted "residents", for example, in the Recovery Fund says: "We agree with the European Union Recovery Fund..." - he said - "...but we disagree with who will take the alpha or the beta amount". And he voted for 'the present'. It's dignified. I'm analyzing these twenty bills in detail. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandra Papaega, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] There are cases where we too have voted'small' to some of the more'small' - let me put introductorys - issues which, if you like, do not relate so clearly to the core of general policy, are individual issues and may vote'small'. You do not want to vote in favour, but there is no argument against it. But do you want to vote'residence' on the Recovery Fund or on the Greek-American Agreement? Where did he disagree? 'Because...' - says - 'I do not want it five years and with the prospect of vagueness, I want it year after year'. So, after year, SYRIZA would close the bases and only need a year's deal to get rid of the American bases? What the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou, etc. It's what all three parties in the House voted for. Of these sixteen-seven have voted for all three parties. It is literally a bulb of billions in business groups. It's immunity, it's privileges, it's up to money back if they don't have the necessary profit. I'm filing it. I want, unfortunately, half an hour to analyse what each bill is and what it was voted on. But, even, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and fifty articles of the Hatzidakis Act, you voted for them. Really? I mean, I'm a little opposite or I'm a little in favor. There are bills which require only one clean and vertical 'no'. No, you can't do it. And finally, you know, the parties are judged by their programmes and by their practice, of course, not by their election slogans. SYRIZA said that "I will pursue a policy, I will tear the memos apart and man will go over the profits". Here, answer me. You're either ignorant or hypocrites, and you're mocking the world. I don't blame you guys for being ignorant. You hypocrites are. And from this point of view, you are giving the New Democracy food - I have followed most of the speeches - to find arguments to answer you, while no one is dealing with the CEEC from New Democracy, because there is no point of contact to judge us. There is no swing on our part, no retreat from positions, to accuse us. And therefore, "one hand washes the other" both the system. Not just the two, of course, but in this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much. On behalf of SYRIZA, the former President of Parliament, Mrs Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, people are, in fact, above the profits and that is why we are proud that SYRIZA, with his government, with his responsibilities before the Greek people, with the risks he has taken, with the retreats and the compromises he was obliged to make and that society has remained up, with people standing up, with the health system standing up, with less unemployment and much more in the country's finances, so that the next government can also go outside memorials. This is for a statement on the Minutes, obviously with different views. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I wonder - I do not wonder, rhetoric I say - that you are coming to Step and you feel the need to say that you do not understand why this motion of censure was tabled and you are trying to find several other reasons which led the Chief of Staff, Alexis Tsipras, and, of course, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, to present this motion of censure. Really? In fact, you are referring to arguments that absolutely hypocritical and pretextful of the Prime Minister's "sorry" with poor arguments, embarrassingly, which directly leads to the conclusion for those who are following us that you recognize your guilt, the bankruptcy of your policy and therefore, not the right, the obligation of the Officerial Opposition and of all other parties, of what I have understood, to vote on the motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, you are dangerous! Your policy is dangerous! And something worse. You're incorrigible. Do not take from words, do not take from warnings. This is the terrible thing, and this makes the need for the polls urgent and, of course, the motion of censure in the Greek Parliament. You only listen to the economics, the economics, the schoolgirls, the mediators, the clinical leaders. We haven't seen any breaches in this. Listen, you trade, you see their proposals, their interests, you try to satisfy them, and you probably do. But you're not listening. In the midst of this incredible, historical crisis that is taking place in the country, due to the pandemic, mainly but also because of the other situations, you do not hear the proposals of counter-population from all sides, which for two years have been presented with an agony before the Greek people through Parliament. You are not listening to the health workers, scientists, even to the report by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras. You are not listening to what Professor Goldammer proposed in this assessment after the tragedy in Matti, and which was educated in a bill ready for civil protection, which we should all be promoting for two years now. You don't even listen to the EMI, Mr. Calliano. You are not listening to the institutes that are actually talking about employment rights, about the destruction of small and mediumsized enterprises. You don't hear that. That's what you don't get in touch with. You're incorrigible. That's what I'm saying. I entreat because you are irresponsible and why, on our part, we call on the issue of distrust and the need for recourse to the polls. You are not prepared because you are worshipers and hostages of private interests, privatisations, private interests. You are obsessed and to some extent you are cynical and arrogant - your policy, that is, it is such - and you also have a strong state-of-the-art mentality. Let me come a little bit, because the citizens who suffered what they suffered a few days ago, and talk with arguments. When in the morning, Mr. Raguss told Mr. Scorcho here: "You were present at the meeting in relation to the Attica Road, and not just you, Mr. Tradopoulou? Do you have the minutes? Tell us what you proposed and where the private person refused to proceed with these measures.' Mr. Scorchos didn't answer. He left. And the Parliamentary spokesman got up and you know what he said? ‘The Eye!’. In other words, a policy of malformation, which shows no inadequacy of arguments, but a policy of bankruptcy. Allow me. Is it possible within such a short time to be protagonists as a European country on a scale of too many issues with a negative figure for the country? In Evia - and not only - there has been the destruction historically but also percentage - which is why I am speaking on a Europe-wide scale - of the highest percentage of natural capital that has existed, while you have been warned and held meetings and while you know what will happen. In the pandemic - it is clear, it has been analysed - we are unfortunately negative champions of the losses to human capital. They could have prevented a large part - not all of them, exogenous is pandemic, not the government - and a number of our fellow citizens, our fellow people, could live now. Two years have passed, when as a self-esteeming prophecy, you say about the miles that end, 'Let's go to the last mile', 'Summer will have that', 'September'. Mrs Kyrame next door leaves schools open and those involved in workplaces and public transport do not take any measures. So through your insistence not to take any additional measures, we have come to this situation to a large extent to have broken the system and to have continuously torrential losses to the human resources of our fellow citizens through pandemic. For the bad weather that was here, the snow was not unprecedented. See all the data from the previous century until now that have been provided by the relevant agencies. We have also become a theater for all of Europe of unprecedented images showing what happened. Let me tell you. I left the House at 11:30, got my wife at 12:00 to go from Kifisia, not from Attica Street. I arrived after two and a half hours, hard, up. The public transport was withdrawn, they didn't exist. Mr Voridis' circular for the public - who yesterday made a grand speech, as though he was a trade unionist in law school - came out at 12.30' and filled the streets and dangerous hiking paths, without people having to take a public transport after 13.00'-14.00', let alone the private sector workers who were required at 14.00 p.m., at 15.00', at 16.00 p.m., go out of their jobs and sit in the middle of the road with despair until they go to their jobs. Are these true? Am I lying? Was there a traffic somewhere? Was there a train? I want you to disprove me. Throughout Kifisia, there wasn't even one of the Trojans. Because I also heard Mr Theodorikos yesterday - as if he were in an amphitheatre here - doing his political trembling and an anthem to those who saved the country. I'm not telling you anything else. On all the crisis issues that we are discussing, you see the friendly press about New Democracy. Today "Kathemerini" has the first title of the unprecedented accuracy that comes, which, in your opinion, was a timely phenomenon and which would break someplace in February. See also for all other issues what they tell you, for all other crises and their treatment, for pandemic and for all other issues. Look at the energy values, the accuracy. Labour rights, on a Europe-wide scale, have retreated over these two years and this has been recorded everywhere by international organisations. We have a number of complaints, violations of international treaties for refugees and freedom of the press. We are going to a 'orbanisation'. These are also tabled by international European organisations. This does not all cause you a problem of a possible reflection, on your part, of a radical other insight into what must happen in a country which, after the economic crisis, is suffering these crises, with severe consequences, climate crisis, pandemic and all the phenomena that exist? Do you not realize that the country should turn to strengthening public infrastructure, strengthening human resources, strengthening the social state? Don't you understand? You don't want to see it. Because you are hostage to these specific policies to which I referred earlier. Also, who used the crisis? What government has used the crisis, with citizens locked up in their homes, for masses of recorded direct assignments, for exhortations of controls, for dismantling and undermining control mechanisms in the country, for a strong attempt to manipulate communication and some public-private companies, for attempts to intervene in justice, but also for threats of criminalisation and persecution to journalists? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, political connections are changing within society. They don't change with tricks. They don't change with the manipulation you're trying to make and create phenomena for correlation changes. You have travelled your last mile as a government. That's clear. From there on, the society that we will encourage and encourage every day to mobilise, give its own seal, give its own print. And because it was written somewhere today that SYRIZA has two souls, no, you're wrong. SYRIZA has many souls. It has many souls, which are souls that are irrigated through society, by the traditions of the labour movement, by democratic struggles, by the particular points of view they exist. It is the most democratic, modern, open party of the country's political life. Take the news. That's what this is about. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that is why our invitation to all the other forces of the Left, the democratic opposition, the progressive forces, to change the government, in order to have progressive governance in the country is understood, legitimized in terms of society, in terms of historical insight into what comes to the future. We will all take our responsibilities, all of us, all of the parties will take their responsibility for whether they help, whether they converge, to have such a progressive policy for the country. I say this to KINAL colleagues too. Now they're gone. Silence or equal distances do not produce political results. KINAL had its own political route and adventure for two reasons: first, because it was very important, negative, for the country to reach the crisis that arrived. And secondly, because he ran over with the right. That's the real reasons. The search for witches for some SYRIZA, for other powers, that took strange forces to him, and now came the way, again in some other strange ways, to refresh his historic path is completely incomplete. I'm sure we'll all consider our responsibility. We as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras who submitted this proposal, are present. We are also present on a Europe-wide scale as the largest party in this whole broader family. We have left our fingerprint on governance and we are proud of this print. We will call on the Greek people and call on the Greek people to put their own fingerprints so that as soon as we can leave this government and open the way for the progressive governance of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the privileges of the old Members is that they have lived in Parliament for many years and have seen many motions of censure. I must say that it is the first motion of censure I see, which is the cause of snow, and the reason is the polling and a conference of a party. And as long as, Mr President - with all due respect - and trying to hide it, Mr Rousopoulos told you, in a very characteristic way, how many opportunities you had, politically, to make a motion of censure and not to make it. And you did it when the snow came, but at the same time you had the demographic data that led you to want tomorrow night to have the Mitsotakis-Tsipra dialogue. That's the reality. And why hide it anyway? Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main problems that I believe you have in the opposition is that for years you have repeated the same strategy and the same tactic, this practice that brought you to the government in 2015, namely total destruction, total populism, 'not all', the vocabulary of neoliberalism and everything else you have used, this strategy is now being followed. Only 2015 is not 2022. In 2022 the Greek people have come to their conclusion. He's found out. He's had and learned. He lived for four and a half years, ladies and gentlemen. And these four and a half years he remembers them very well. He remembers very well how we risked getting out of Europe. He remembers very well the 100 billion that we charged for free. He remembers very well the ways in which you were trying to interfere with freedom of the press. He remembers the various decisions of the Council of State very well. That is the reality and you continue today in exactly the same way. Yesterday I sat and looked to make sure I didn't say anything to the House that isn't right. I'm going to propose to you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, at your conference to do an internal globe and ask what was the worst post-multiple government. Because you yourself said that the worst government of postmultiple was the government of George Papandreou, shortly thereafter, the worst government of postmultiple was the government of Antonis Samaras, and then the worst government of postmulsion is the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] Should you, ladies and gentlemen, also put the SYRIZA government in, as Greek society believes? Because the Greek society, as it turns out on a daily basis, finds you a worse government and that, in my view, is your problem. You're stuck in yesterday. You have no idea what has really happened to the world today, where this world is going. I heard Mr. Skourlet, and I have to tell you that I'm disappointed. For when he told us what he said, well, opposition, at some point he escapes and talks about growth and began to say "Even this rate of growth is not." He was picking up his words at the time. Why, ladies and gentlemen? The growth that we are all proud of will be dividing to the Greek people. You don't want that either? You don't want growth, do you? Nor do you want to reduce unemployment? You don't want the deals, do you? You don't want the upgraded Greece, do you? Don't you see these, ladies and gentlemen? Don't you see where the place goes? And because I do not want to avoid the hardships, I want to say clearly: yes, on snow, weaknesses were huge. Huge! And the apologies, ladies and gentlemen, were sincere and were sincere from everyone. First from the Prime Minister and from there and beyond all the members of the New Democracy. Yes, we did not succeed and there is none of us who felt good at that time with all the weaknesses of coordination and decisions that have been presented. Did they show up, but for the first time? Was it the first time that SYRIZA found out the state mechanism had deficiencies? Was it the first time that SYRIZA has discovered that climate change is in huge problems and we have to deal with them differently? In any case, we recognised our mistakes, we apologise and we are determined to make civil protection as far as possible so that these problems can be minimized and minimised because we are not saying that we have searched for a mistake but have not found it. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not have the arrogance. We humbly say that there have been mistakes and that from now on we will do everything we can to correct them for whatever time to come. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have to finish. I'm closing up, saying, a simple word. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the more you are stuck in the logic of 2015, the more you will be from society. The more society will turn your back on you and the more you are trying to look good, unfortunately for you, the Greek society no longer communicates with you and this is your great agony. You have time to come to Parliament and to the Greek political scene with substantial proposals, with opposition hard, but in any case very serious, and to leave this street of indifferent populism and destruction, which not only helps you but is in the danger of being sent to you in the margin of history. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy are proud of our government. We are proud of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and we are proud of the results of the two and a half years. We are absolutely certain that in 15 months' time the Greek people have been comparing the various governments that have passed - yours, above all, including ours - we are absolutely certain that they will retrust New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u157	Why, Mr. Comrade? Did he insult you? Did he say anything personal? I don't think so, Mr. Colleague, at the edge of the speech...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u158	No, Madam President, I want the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, do not do this to me today, please, because it has been done with another colleague. Listen to me. If there is nothing personal on the part of the speaker, I do not think you can take the floor apart from your parliamentary representative and you know that very well. Better than ever!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u160	That is not the case, Madam President, it is not just the insurmountable reason, it is also the restoration of accuracy. There are two reasons for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u161	I'm asking you again. Is there anything offensive? What offended you? I didn't hear anything offensive, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u162	It's not just the insult, Madam President, it's also the restoration of accuracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u163	A woman never offends a man, especially Mrs Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u164	I don't understand. Did he falsify anything you said, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u165	Of course, that's what I'm claiming.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u166	Good, if he's falsified, please very much have the floor for a minute. But to hear that the honourable Member has falsified what you said and I think she is still here to answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u167	Sure. And we'd be done if you'd given me the opportunity. Mrs Bakoyannis said, referring to my speech yesterday and to the issues of economic development, saying things she did not seem to understand and gave them quite a different meaning. I said, for instance, that today's growth rate is a relative size, because it is compared each time - so to speak in the economy - with what happened in the previous period. We were champions in the recession, so having now compared to -8 and -9 is not in relation to last year's better, maybe it's the same and a little worse than last year. However, what you have not realised is that, in this share of growth, wages on dependent labour have been reduced. So, then, the excess of development that you said returns as a social dividend to the weakest is not happening. It's just the opposite. Honestly, therefore, if you wish to have an apology policy - in my opinion hypocritically it has been in the last few days - the only apology that is acceptable to you is to call elections because you lead to an increase in inequalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u168	Mr Colleague, there is no falsification of what you have said. Mrs Bakoyannis expressed her opinion and I do not understand why you have asked for the floor in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u169	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u170	Please. Please. Taking the microphone and creating impressions is completely different from having a falsification of reasons. Please. You are an old parliamentarian and what you are doing right now is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u172	Here, Madam President, you have the floor precisely because this issue has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u173	Mr. Skourletis, don't scratch yourself in the sip-flake.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u174	Who's the slut?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u175	Because sometimes demands are accepted, never have you ever had complete certainty.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u176	There is now the floor for the spokesman of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, of course, ladies and gentlemen, and of course, Mr Mitsotakis, it is not a good thing for the game and I would ask everyone here to stand up and go to another town. The relentless and immortal of course for all of us, Mentis Bostadzoglou, when he was still alive at the end of the seven-year-old tyranny of the dictatorship, where we had again lost national sovereignty, just as it is today in this black country. So he said it to give a humorous tone that it was sunny, more likely that this government is stealing democracy, freedom and justice, stealing life as it later proved, because that is why we are in the memoranda. The beginning of the junta was to get to the sea-loving memorials. So, then, it was emmedite that the late Mentis Bostantzoglou, who reminded me of history - because for such persons very important and adorable forever by the Greek people, we must remind them of their qualities - that as long as this beast was living the human and artistic was also a theatrical writer and cartoonist and cartoonist and cartoonist. He was even a painter. Something, in other words, very distant from many of us who are just politicians or very, very, very, very, very active and politicians. Look, let's start at the basics. We need to fight this government out of our place. For us in Merra25, the government must rise and go - not you, you are fine, the government that represents you - but before doing so it must certainly ask for a great apologies from the Greek people, and all of them must be committed to committing that they will never again accept to return to positions of national responsibility. You want to know why? Let's start with what Mrs. Bakoyannis said. Mrs. Bakoyannis left now, she was forced to leave and she wouldn't be able to answer me. He dares to say "because we're miserable, because we're misguided for growth"! What growth? Do you dare still make fun of society? I ask a question, and let anyone who wants from you, when he speaks, a parliamentary minister, a Prime Minister, God himself come and answer me. Our country's primary surplus will be smaller this year than 2019, yes or no? We all know it in here. No growth! We've been underdeveloped since 2019 that you've been ruling, and from now on. Why do you have to go? You have to leave for a thousand reasons, but let me invoke the basics. You need to leave because you've been inside the Greek people's house and you've been stealing it for two and a half years. You do this when you do not steal his own home so that you do not have a home to go in and steal him. You know what I mean, "red" loans, the wonderful plan "Hercules" etc. So you have to go because you're stealing our people. You have to go because you have done so much in the economy that you borrowed 40 billion euros from the Brussels Financial Stability Fund, which is also fraud because your loan is inspiring, and what are you doing, you know? You gave less than 900m euros in the form of crumbs to the spectators, the Greek people, and the rest 49.5 to your ten parasitic friends local and foreign. That's why you need to get the fuck out of here. You must also leave for your Banking Code, which allows Mr Mitsotakis or me to go to 4% of the value, i.e. 4,000, the home of a person who has paid 100,000 euros, but who does not let him claim it. He's punishing him while, as I've told you before, your memorials are to blame for getting him out of programme and not being consistent with his loans. You must leave for all the privatisations you have made, for the final dismantling - you have not done it all but completed it - of all the industrial relations. You must leave for the total loss of the national sovereignty that our country is currently living in. You need to leave for the country's captivity, for the scary - we had to see him perhaps from the dictatorship - authoritarianism that you brought to the country, for the fact that you were bored, you beat the children at first in the squares, after your students, your children, after the teachers who went to defend them, after the people who drank coffee in the square of Nea Smyrna. You must leave for the destruction of the environment, which you have served so long as to save the environment. But you cannot hide, because your actions are absolutely damaging to the environment. You need to leave for the cleaners you fired. You need to leave for the frigates you took, which you allegedly took for our country's national defense, but we all know that if Washington commands you to stay at the port in Salamis, the Navy, they will stay there. And if Washington commands you to stay the Raphas in Tanagra, that's where they'll be stuck. Do you know where I know that? There they stayed in Cyprus, when we lost half of Cyprus, when Cyprus lost half of the country. That's where they stayed and there were. Then there was no Raphala. There was the brand-new Miraz F1 before 2000, because I also know from them, and there were also the wonderful Fantomos, which were all set. You know what else was there, because I served at the Navy seven hundred and fifty-nine days? There were seventy - two ships that you sent to Imia and were walking around until the Turks came in and lifted up the Turkish flag on our own. So you must go because you have charged the Greek people with 10 billion dollars for weapons that you have no choice but to use, and you have never had the ethos and you have never had the courage, you have never had the leap, and heroism, and you have never had the courage to use it. You must leave for all these reasons! You need to leave for the demonization of everyone who disagrees with your views. You need to go - and I'm going to shock you now with what I'm going to say, but I'm going to say it - for one more reason. And you should leave for that reason, and you should not come back either, and they should not come either. You all have to go. Do you know why? Because you're ugly. You know what I mean by that? That you're not handsome at all. You know what that means? That you don't have politeness. You know what that means? That you have no good shape at all. Do you know why you have no good form for all three Memorandum parties? Because you didn't have any form and you don't have any form. You have lost your shape and form, so you are ugly and are not handsome, and you take the shape and shape of the container that Brussels put you in, the container that your prisoners put on you. You need to go because you don't have the veracity after twelve years, where our country's necrobulous in the cell cools, get your courages, put them together, and release the people who are hungry and cold out there. For the bad weather, really, the management and coordination of our state mechanism services was the problem? Oh, it wasn't that! The absence, the disappearance of the state mechanism was the problem. Do you know what the problem is? That for many years now, but the last two have ended the short, there is no state mechanism, there is no public service, there are no regional services, there are no municipal services that have permanent staff of indefinite duration. And you know how that turns out? Let me tell you this too. Why is what you have not privatised, such as the supply of our hospitals, the food that our doctors and patients eat, such as the cleanliness of our hospitals, such as half of our health, as you have been able to, and have not been able to privatize, like TRAINOSE, what have you done with it? They must leave, but it is another question if the Memorandum parties, to remember a saying of another late, Andrew Papandreou, are entitled to be blamed. Let us, the Communist Party and the Greek Solution, be blamed for not exercising a Memorandum of Understanding. You will discuss at the end of my speech whether and whether you have the right to speak, as the late Andrew said. In our opinion, you are not entitled at all. So we have a state mechanism that you have not privatised. Do you know what PPP means? To learn the Greek people who hear from us from there above: PPP, dear Greek people, means a public-private partnership. Do you know what that means in other words? In other words, it means that a state or a municipality, that is to say all of us voters, citizens, take the cost and you give the private contractor who comes and fruits the cost gain that we have entered into over-cost work, whose task to assist in a state of emergency is unable to provide because of a flat-rate contract. You know what I'm saying? I say that after you charge us and give the profits to him, you then sign a contract that gives him the right to take his tail out and make you humiliate again today, which the "ATIC LEI" said after her IGC that, unfortunately, we have no competence to close the Attica Road. You are the one who forbids us. Again naked the king, once again naked Mr. Mitsotakis. Over the next twelve years in which Greece, our country, is under the regime of the de facto and de jure colony, our debt is withdrawn by a public utility provider and turned into a so-called regulatory authority and, indeed, independent. What is the state, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy? Is he a referee? We put it between the bad capitalists and the good people to tell who's right? No, the state is the protector of the good people, who is the sheep, and is guarded by the wolf, who is the evil capitalist, Mr. Bobolas in this particular case. I don't forget, you know, the names. I have a passion to say. Whatever rock you're up to, a Bobolas will come out of it. Who's got the Attica Street and got it? Mr. Bobolas has the Attica Street and he's renegotiating it. We're talking about roads, we're talking about ports, airports, education. We have been spared for health to speak from the beginning of the pandemic and demand direct support with logistics, with tomographers, with ICUs and, of course, with permanent, sufficient, on the basis of an organisational chart of each hospital individually and by a health structure, medical and nursing staff. But you have devised the question of selling, privatization, and commercialisation, regardless of what the people want. You proved it tomorrow in the referendum. 'no' the people wanted 62%, 'yes' eats from then on seven years until today. And now let's just move on if SYRIZA and KINAL are entitled to speak, SYRIZA has tabled the motion of censure. Are you entitled to blame them? Are we entitled to blame them if we have such a state as you? One simple thing I'll ask you and you tell me, if you want. TRAINOSE who privatised it, who sold it against a lentil plate, less than its tracks cost the Italians, to a bankrupt company - the Italian one - which has only been doing since she took it is that she bought two trains thirty-five years each? Who gave the "FRAPORT" to the 12 fillets airports of Greece? But most of all, who did the Supreme Court, dear ex-comrades? I didn't do it. Yanis Varoufakis didn't do it, and I'm not even afraid of New Democracy. You did it. Who cut the NSA as the first measure step he took as soon as he ruled? I didn't do it. Yanis Varoufakis didn't do it. And I'm afraid it wasn't even New Democracy. You did it. I'm not saying this so long to tell you you're the same as the New Democracy. We don't believe it. We are against equal distances with fanaticism. Do you have any objections? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I, Mr. Skourletis, committed our country to 2060 with primary surpluses, which means mathematical austerity for the next four decades? Did I? I didn't do it. SYRIZA did it. And I say we don't want equal distances, we don't say you're the same. Do you know why we're accusing you mainly? And I will soon finish, Madam President. I'll take another or two minutes at the most. We blame you, above all, and with fanaticism, we blame you for one thing, because you crushed hope. The Greek people's hope was placed above your backs. Then Mr. Varoufakis was with you. And when you said by the mouth of your Chief "I'm sorry, deceitful" you know what you were doing? You reminded the Greek people that ten years ago those who said deception the only attempt to resist and release from our slavery were Mr. Samaras, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Papandreou, that they were all already exemplary prisoners. And then you know what the Greek people said, who had gone away from their ideological margins to reach you? He thought, "Ah, the Rightists who have been telling us there is no other way". We are here to tell all the tones - not you, we are addressing them and I will address myself until I die - that we are here because it is not a delusion. It is a national and moral obligation, Madam President. It's our main obligation to resist until the last ring of our body and our blood in this theft of the country. I'm closing in the phrase. He wants virtue and boldness. Let us not live one more day as slaves. We do not have this right, because we are Greeks and what defines us and defines us - and our existence and our soul - since ancient times is our unstable firm love, our rabies love, for freedom and justice. In the next elections, whenever they are held, the dilemma will only be one, ladies and gentlemen. Day or night?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The Vice-President of the Government, Mr Pikramemos, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, with an impressive move and wanting to take advantage of the serious problems of citizens from the bad weather of "Hellenicism" and the President has put forward a motion of censure to the government, thereby seeking to gain temporary political benefits. I believe, however, that the exact opposite is going to happen. I believe that this motion of censure represents a great opportunity for the New Democracy and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because through this process it is possible to renew the Greek people's confidence in the programme that we are implementing and thus continue the reform work of this government and to make it an estate of the entire Greek people. Besides, in the face of this work, the Opposition has neither proposed positions nor a programme nor an alternative proposal. That is why it is still overwhelmingly lacking in the eyes of the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that we as a government have been called upon to face unprecedented situations and unpredictable circumstances, our strategic approach and the objective of the government remains firmly the same, which is to lay strong foundations for a better tomorrow in Greece. And the major challenges that our country is facing at the moment are, above all, the economy and the income of citizens, defence and security, the management of pandemic and the management of climate change, whose phenomena are becoming more and more frequent. In our daily lives we are now experiencing extreme weather phenomena that seek vigilance, central planning and direct governmental decisions. The Government of New Democracy is the first Greek government to bring to the table the escalating climate crisis. We are acting and taking measures, while at the same time trying to define policies, without many times having the necessary time to study them, mainly because of the pandemic. The phenomenon of climate change requires a study, a modern approach, a holistic approach and no fragmentary measures. The upgrading of civil protection by creating a new Ministry laid the foundations for a national security pillar and the establishment of a national management mechanism. This initiative in its brief course undoubtedly has a positive sign, but it gives us the impetus to move forward in the next important steps. And what are these? Civil protection must be reorganised and full and exclusive competences given to the Minister - and not responsibilities to God - must be given, given that he also has full political responsibility. Civil protection must be central at all times to the full extent of the situation, so that, on the one hand, it can effectively coordinate the actions of other bodies, but, above all, it must take the decisions to take action. It is high time that relations between central government and local government, particularly at times of major crises, are also identified, because they are not under-reported and thus damaging the effectiveness of central action and burdening the overall picture, which the government as a whole is responsible for. In conclusion, there is a need for a long, stable planning, a change of attitude in public services, a responsibility from self-government, prevention in crisis and large new types of investment and infrastructure. The events we have recently experienced clearly show us that this is now the right solution and you can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the government will soon move in this direction. The current government policy has also led our country to be seen as an equal partner in the European Union and, at the same time, our moves in foreign policy have established Greece in the international community as a factor of stability in the Balkans and the Mediterranean. Greece is now a more clearly equivalent and more mixed partner in European and international alliances. The Prime Minister's speech in the international forums is of fundamental and serious importance to the speech of the other partners. At the same time, the government has focused on economic development. A characteristic example is the activation at European level of the Recovery Fund. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan has received enthusiastic acceptance from the European Union institutions and is a decisive bet. The absorption of money has been designed in conjunction with reforms, which are a key priority. In this context, we are given the opportunity to define the country's potential from the outset and to change its image as a whole. This effort is accompanied by a broader planning of the government to improve the quality of the institutions of the country and, in particular, to rationalise the situation in the independent authorities with a view to making them more effective. In the end, I would also like to refer to the area of justice, which is one of the most crucial factors, not only for maintaining social cohesion but also for developing a climate of institutional stability in investment confidence and ultimately economic development. It is now commonly accepted that the administration of justice has a decisive effect on the economy. That is why the current government has set itself the objective of creating a framework of orderly operation and key issues for the administration of rapid and effective justice. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in a few hours' time from now on what will prove to be the proposal of distrust was a useless game of political impression. The rejection of the motion of censure will give a formal vote of confidence to the Government of New Democracy and will complete its work to continue the major areas needed by the country. It will prove and emerge once again the overwhelming difference that separates the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the previous ones. Because the difference in method and attitude is overwhelming. Because this government will continue to show the citizens that, apart from the constant implementation of its work, it has the possibility, together, of recognising, correcting and eventually pulling forward without going into sterile controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Minister. Is there any reason why the new Republic should be allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. I cannot say anything that I do not know whether a colleague has been hurt. I haven't watched all the locations. From this morning until a moment ago, before Mr. Voutsis came to speak, there were no more than three to four Members of the SYRIZA. In a top parliamentary procedure, SYRIZA so believes in this proposal which, of course, respects the highest parliamentary procedures. That's just to see the hypocritical thing. In any case, we thank you. Thank you for giving us the opportunity and the opportunity to speak in this Chamber today about what we have done over these two and a half years, in order not only to support but, above all, to strengthen Greek development, not in words as you have done, but with substantial actions and reform work, giving concrete solutions to the daily problems of citizens. And all of this despite the enormous challenges that we have to deal with every day. Challenges of national health, economic, energy, with more recent weather, climate. Let us see them briefly one by one. On the part of national issues I do not need to say much. I do not think there is a single Greek who is not proud of how this government has handled and handled our national issues. Remember the crisis in Evros? The pressure that all European partners have achieved today, but also America, to our neighbours, to the defence agreements that shield our country at operational and diplomatic level? And how did you, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response treat all this? In a unique, unprecedented way for an officer's opposition party. You voted against the country's defensive shield by putting your micro-party needs above the country's needs and the security of citizens. In the migration from 'no border Greece', from'move and disappear' today we have almost zero flows and, of course, human living conditions for all refugees and immigrants. Of course, at the same time, control over all the bodies, all the structures and all the funds that have to be managed. The pandemic part is a front that remains open not only to Greece but to the whole planet. Unfortunately within a very short period of time since we took over the country's hemisphere, we have been faced with the wave of the pandemic. We were called to fight without weapons, after we received a National Health System completely weakened and subordinated. However, we have managed not only to withstand the ESS but much more to strengthen it with over a thousand three hundred IF beds and fourteen thousand more doctors and other staff. Our main objective now is to redesign and reconstruct it with emphasis on primary health care. To this end, we will confirm both the state budget and the Recovery Fund in order to address the disparities between the region and the centre and the chronic weaknesses in the health sector, the legacy of the SYRIZA government. Your allegations, ladies and gentlemen of Officer Representation, that health expenditure is being reduced once again prove to be false. You are denied the figures themselves, when in 2019 the Ministry of Health expenditure increased by about 200 million compared to 2018 and reached about 4 billion. In 2020, the year the pandemic manifested, increased significantly to 4.8 billion. In 2021 they were formed at 5.2 billion, and for the current year they approach 5.3 billion. I've said it a lot in the past. The arithmetic is not an opinion, each having one's own. As far as the economy is concerned, we have talked about it in the budget, and we will be discussing it today: First of all, we have reduced considerable taxes and social security contributions, thus improving the available income for all citizens. At the same time we absorbed the economic shocks caused by the pandemic with a package of over EUR 43 billion. So we held society and the economy upright. In fact, we have created a financial area for further interventions in support of the social whole through the increase in minimum wages and another increase will follow in May. We have also put back on energy crisis and precision, in the context of the financial possibilities, by increasing the State aid to electricity tariffs and social tariffs for vulnerable households, by increasing the discount on natural gas accounts by 40%, but also by covering most of the burden from the adjustment clause on agricultural energy tariffs. How did we do it? Just bringing significant vital funds from Greek and foreign investors who believed in the investment and rescued the company from the certain collapse in which you led it. Now we are going to the most recent, the gleaning of the bad weather of "Elpida" and its management. At this point I would like to stress that we will be answering today from this step, but not from the citizens, of course, not from the members of the SYRIZA. We recognise that there have been failures and inadequacies but, unfortunately, in 30 months, problems have hardly been solved for decades. The state mechanism is not yet at the level of readiness that require phenomena of such high intensity that are rarely experienced in Mediterranean countries such as Greece. We recognize our mistakes. We're learning from them. We're getting better. We point them out openly. We are not hiding behind our finger, and most of all we do not repeat statements such as Mr Toska and the then government of SYRIZA that no matter how much they look for mistakes they cannot find. You seem to be forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, your own criminal mistakes and the omissions of the past. Let me remind you, however, of our own procedures in similar cases, such as the '112' function, with which lives have been saved this summer. And they could have saved others and proved the same salvage before. I would also like to remind you of the way in which the state has compensated its citizens for natural disasters. Go and ask the citizens if they think we responded quickly. For the first time, so much money and so fast, not so much because the money is more, but because we integrated the platforms into one, we integrated the building along with the subsidy we give for the rebuilding of the house. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'd just like your tolerance. Unfortunately, time is not enough to list and highlight all the policies of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the goals that have been achieved and the multiple benefits for all, reforms such as that of the state's digital change, where in two and a half years what has not been done in decades, such as in the part of investments, where, in the context of the conditions after many years, we see huge investments taking flesh and bones, collossos to trust the government's economic policy and invest in Greece. For the first time, the country borrowed at zero interest rates and borrowed at historically low interest rates, because this government with its policy has gained market confidence. Finally, in the two and a half years of governance, we have met several adversities, but we have responded adequately, even drawing the necessary knowledge and the strength for the future. We are still on a difficult road. But, as we have proved to date, the difficulties are for those capable. On the other hand, you are the Opposition of Inconsistency, Illegality, Inertia, and the only thing for sure is that if we were talking about a theatrical performance, the title could be no more than "no to everything". With a great sense of responsibility and with pride I am voting against this proposal, I support the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, too. Mr Constantinople, First Vice-President of Parliament, has the floor now on behalf of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to speak today about what you are all talking about, about the great success of the PASOK Change Movement in the last month, I would not speak about the polls, but I would say that for the first time after many years the axis of political confrontation between PASOK, SYRIZA and the New Democracy has been shifted. So, what's the controversy over the last few days? After we announced our view, the Government and SYRIZA, with two identical communications, raised exactly the same issues about a contradiction between the vote on the motion of censure and the elections. This - and this is very important - was done at a level - I am not saying in any way that you have consulted, was a source - of social media - I can show you that for the first time the neo-democrats and the Syrians themselves are writing from the well-known information centres, while you could know that a few years ago, in the motion of censure with Mr Stakoura again, we voted in favour of the motion of censure. What changed today? They've changed things. And you know it. You all understand that. However, let us now go to the elections and to the great contradiction that has been caused to you, because the other is understood. Nor will the government fall on Sunday. You know that. And Mr. Tsipras knows. Fourteen motions of censure never took place. So let's go to the election. What did Mr. Tsipras say about the election? "I'm not afraid of them..." -is a self-evident statement by Mr. Tsipras - but that's why I don't ask for them. I believe that the elections in the middle of a pandemic... - when Mr. Tsipras made this statement, we had fifty deaths yesterday, we had a hundred and ten - "...it would be Mr. Mitsotakis' grand estimating move." I'll testify for the Minutes. Today, with a hundred and ten deaths, is the election being challenging or not? The responsibilities for the pandemic are held by Mr. Mitsotakis, his government, okay. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The second contradiction is on which terms we go to the next day. The same old-fashioned people? What did Mr Mitsotakis do three months after taking up his duties? He was asking for elections. The elections took place after four years. Three months! What does Tsipras say now? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Two and a half years. After two and a half years he asked for elections and took place after two and a half years. Mr. Mitsotakis called for elections three months after his term of office and the elections took place after two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u184	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u185	Let me have a minute. I understand you, Mr. Skourlet. Mr. Mitsotakis did this. And now what do you do? You are asking for elections again, while you know that it is not something that you or we will decide. Why are you doing this? Because it's better to say elections than to say suggestions, to say opinions, to hide behind the elections, to hide behind such issues as, for example, the requirement for pandemic. It's very hard to say that. Neither SYRIZA nor the New Democracy can say it. So the election is easy. We don't have that perception. We understand that the world wants to hear our social-democratic proposal. And you should know that this proposal listens to it and embraces it every day. I'm not going to polling. I don't care about that. He hugs her every day because he's responding to his problems. That is the only answer for what happened, that is to say, having the same treatment for New Democracy and SYRIZA. But I want to say something to you, because you are talking about our inner-party elections. I want to be honest with you, and I think you should think about it a little bit more. Our internal party elections were decided in September to take place a month and a half later. You'll remember the Ghost Ghost's gone. Do not lose the sense of measure and ethos. I mention it for those who say it, for those who say 'why did you have internal elections and no elections', and you put them on the same level. I don't think that's worth it. You understand that. We are now going a little bit to Mr Tasoula's message yesterday about the parliamentary group's meeting. I have here to tell you how many times the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group met in the middle of bills. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group met in 2015. I'll testify everything. I think we got the message. Mrs Bakoyannis said so. However, the people of the democratic party received the message and the world of the democratic party, to those who have implicitly consented to it. Don't think they didn't understand what happened to the government. Be sure they got it. But let's just go to the specifics now - because you're asking for things and you think people have forgotten everything - in extreme weather. SYRIZA is right to criticise - we are doing it and we and all the parties, the institutions - about what happened on the Attica Road. But is there an alternative to SYRIZA? But SYRIZA a few years ago, in 2017, did exactly the same thing Mr. Mitsotakis did. Eight hours left, too. Are you looking for the worst manager against the disasters? No, gentlemen. What has been created with these weather phenomena wants answers. And our President, Nikos Androullakis, gave an answer - not to this one - because he was the only one in the European Commission who made the mechanism for natural disasters - he was the rapporteur - to help with natural disasters in the summer, on fires, on anything - social democracy has an answer for all of this - before it all happens. So we're not all the same. We don't deal with matters the same way. There are different proposals and the Social Democratic proposal is the tool to tackle the multiple crises. And I'm ending up with this. There are two questions: if in the next procedure there is a proposal - and I told you there is - and if anyone can win the New Democracy government. There's an answer to that. And the one who wins the New Democracy government will be the Social Democratic motion and the PASOK. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u186	Shut up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u187	We have a lot ahead of us, Mr President. Evidently there will also be mistakes, apparently there will always be corrections, but the Greece of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy, now, in 2022, can optimisticly and with very increased expectations, such that we could not imagine in the retreat and in the ox of '15, '16, '17 and '18, hide the future in the coming years. Be well and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Let me also inform you that you are here and those who hear from us from their offices that today we will go up to the end of the tenth cycle, the last one, that is, the last one, which will be the last to speak, will be Mr Nikolaos Papastassis. Mr Alexandros Flamouraris is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's motion of censure, which, in my opinion, will be rejected by the government majority, does not concern, as you said, the snow or any elements which are only dysfunctional. It is about the overall policy of the New Democracy and the disastrous print of thirty months now that it governs the country. It is the cry of agony against indifference, courage, selfishness and irrationality. I support that we too, who are trying to gain the confidence of society, are the ones who are listening to the agony, pain and fear of society, the ones who are in constant communication and the exchange of experience with it, we really ought today to speak for it. Because the majority of Greeks and Greeks, after considering what we have suffered the thirty months that New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis are running, we will all say together, no more, it is enough, you have to leave! Where do I start and how do I finish by listing everything we've been through these thirty months? From the pandemic, the accuracy, natural disasters, unemployment, the opinion polls of the best bidders, the direct assignments, the staff of Members of Parliament and Ministers to deals and old-age services of Mavroyaluro? May I remind you that there would have been lives saved if there were elementary reinforcement of the health system, as we have repeatedly proposed, on staff, in technology equipment, at primary health care, with a family doctor who is essential in pandemics? I would remind you that natural disasters would otherwise be dealt with if there were a plan. Can it be accepted that half a country has been excluded for five or six days? Wouldn't the houses be powered if measures were taken? Also, would the accuracy not have been mitigated if the vulnerable were to take care if the minimum wage was made at EUR 800? These are reasons for others to say below, for which it was really necessary to make the motion of distrust necessary, so that we can create different conditions for society and the weak. What's the big picture? Because the big picture, if there was elementary care for the state, for the citizens, for the public goods, would all be better. Why, though, was there no care and there is no care? Is this all about incapacity? Definitely not. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know anyone spending money to take care of a house that has decided - rather - and agrees the price to sell it? No, of course not. So don't look for the incompetent. This is a decision and indeed a business decision. That's all. Now, if, in the meantime, some or others are lost, you tell us'so they are, let them be careful'. This "let's watch" is your permanent argument and you call it elegantly "atomic responsibility". So spontaneously a reasonable question arises: If Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy were not elected to take care of the country and its inhabitants, why can't they or why does they not want to do so? I beg him to tell us, although we have something in mind now. Even the water's on the hammer! We have, of course, Raphael and vaccines. According to Mr Mitsotakis, we must be very pleased, because everything is going well. In failures it throws a psalmist and nothing changes, since it is supposed that he and his government have to deal with - as he says - diseases from the past, as if other people have ruled our country for the last fifty years, as if bankruptcy came on their own, as if life in Greece and all the bad texts began in 2015, when SYRIZA took over the government, as you want to convince the world. But people see what happens and they know and remember. The status of the executive state continues its policy. In everyday life, the criticism of Antipoliticism calls it "miseria", especially when it comes to disseminating public money. Education goes between private colleges and catechists, and the police get into colleges. The auctions of thousands, even first home. Cumulated pensions and subsidiary insurance were granted to foreign funds. Public networks are out for sale. Hospitals, too. Lucetto, he's slowly entering primary health care. Small and mediumsized ones for extinction. Cultural creation is null and void. The cultural heritage is sold out. The Recovery Fund is delivered to banks for large groups and nothing for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Far off the list and at the end of the pandemic, the deficits are being kept in custody. One is reckoning who will pay the marble again. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by addressing the social majority, to all these young people and young people, to workers and to the unemployed, to the people of science, art and culture, to all those who suffer the disastrous consequences of the policy of the Staff State I described and to promise that we will be on their side in any claim to improve their lives, because it is a matter of democracy, dignity, an obligation to life itself. I should like, at the same time, to address all the progressive forces, the large social majority within and outside Parliament, and to say that it is such a crucial time for the large social majority that we must overcome any differences and respond to the agony and request of the people to get rid of these policies and the Government of the New Democracy of Mitsotakis, which, by every means, imposes this policy. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, as a vehicle of the modern left, along with the progressive forces, within and outside Parliament, will stop this disastrous course and a new progressive government, with the SYRIZA body - Progressive Alliance and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, will take over the repair of our country, and will do so very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, too. The Government representative, Mr. Ioannis Economou, is called in Stepma. Then I will give the floor to Mr Kotsos of New Democracy, to Mrs Lykoulis from the Change Movement, and then again to the Minister and specifically to Mr Skreka. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of his political resonance, Mr Tsipras has declining and the electoral future of the area he is leading to doubt, because of his angry and outdated opposition, he has attempted a desperate move of impression by putting forward a motion of distrust against the government. This proposal obviously does not serve the interests of the country and society, but is subject to Mr. Tsipras' efforts to find a board of salvation while SYRIZA is sinking. But it is one of the cases where an unfortunate choice gives us an excellent opportunity. It offers Greek women and Greeks the opportunity to understand the deep breach that crosses the political spectrum in our homeland. On the one hand, a working, modern, compact and responsible government, and on the other, an unreserved, irresponsible, obsolete and, above all, skin-front, which in no way can bring about a credible alternative to governance in our country, in reality in the 21st century. With a axis, then, and with all its political characteristics - socially, morally, culturally, politically - I will try to highlight to the National Representation and to the Greek citizens what exactly are the issues you raise with your motion of censure, which is exactly what you want to leave and even worse what the alternative is, which you expect to bring. At political level, we have a responsible and brave government that does not hide behind its finger, which does not renounce its responsibilities, as did the last snowstorm, its bad weather and its consequences. But we have a government with special, moral and political weights so that it can manage the difficulties so that at the end of the day the country and the citizens can benefit, a government that respects and defends the institutions, respects and defends the city, supports justice as a basic pillar of our democracy. It is a government that strengthens national defence with the armaments programmes it has launched, which upgrades the country's geopolitical and geostrategic position through international alliances, initiatives and partnerships, a government that shields our national borders and handles with great success the challenge of immigration. This government is asking you to replace. Who? A opposition demanded by the government for reasons of democracy, says, at the same time that until now the Chief and its officials have not agreed to each other, in view of their conference, what exactly it means democracy. It is an Opposition that mimics the arrival of the Rafahs and the strengthening of the Armed Forces, which wants the country with clear vine, which does not vote for salvages for our country's agreements and alliances with global superpowers. It is an Opposition which is challenging the institutions of democracy, which undermines and undermines justice, challenging its independence and the separation of powers. This opposition wants to replace the government. At a social level we have a consistent and labour-government government which in a particularly difficult environment, in an environment of parallel imported crises, drastically reduces unemployment as a result of attracting investment. It even increases twice, the minimum wage. It increases all social benefits. We have a government that concludes agreements with top tourist companies so that we can more than double the number of tourists coming to the country this year, a government that, in crisis circumstances, strengthens the National Health System at an unprecedented level. We have a government that fights with deeds and results, doesn't sit with crossed hands and doesn't lie. It is fighting with deeds and results the wave of precision in goods and energy. It is a government that defends and upgrades the Greek public university, which ensures lifelong education for youth, which modernises and digitizes the state. This government you want to replace. Who? An anti-infectionist opposition which repeatedly breaks the national front into the fight for public health, covering attitudes and choices, almost all reactionary attitudes and choices of minority groups on pandemic issues. An Opposition that voted against the requirement, which voted against the consequences of those who do not send their children to school and deprive them of the learning, which even voted against those who issue false certificates. A counterpopulation, which wants the Greek universities as a man of lawlessness, a technophobic opposition to the digitization and modernisation of the Greek state, an opposition trying to pull the country and its people into its own measures, because it knows that in the world of technology and progress there is no place for it. This opposition you want to replace the government. At moral and cultural level, on the one hand, the government that has made human rights a top priority, which has broken the abstention of sexism and racial discrimination, on the other hand, the Government which has broken the silence of domestic violence, which creates space for people to express themselves and live free, open to new cultural flows, to modern culture, which listens to the needs of young people, which broadens and facilitates the search for new quality jobs, which is in serious and decency with society, and on the other, an opposition that takes into account unbearable rights without, however, giving practical substance, which in youth shows the way of resignation and artificial uniformity downwards. This road you show to the new generation. It is an Opposition that is unbearablely reactionary and obsolete in terms of international trends, science, letters. Worse, a counterpopulation that her moral measure is gossip, is small, it's myths, it's hypocrisy. This opposition you want to replace the government. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a government that is trying to ensure the advance of its citizens, we have a government that is trying to create opportunities, to free the productive potential of its country and its people, and an opposition that is today the same and invariable as its failed government yesterday, the same and invariable as the government of 2015-2019, which invests in the nostrils, is drowning in its modesty, which cannot change Greece because it is unable to change itself. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been on a thirty-one-month course. From summer 2019 until today there are failures, there are weaknesses. It is clearly more important to manage the latter and heal the wounds that have been created. We have a plan for Greece of the 21st century and we will present before the Greek people a capable body of policies that we have implemented and changed our country. Neither do weaknesses and problems break us, nor do success make us brag. And that, because we know that the bar is high. We continue our fight with devotion, with respect, with responsibility for the citizens. We correct our weaknesses and our mistakes, because mistakes and weaknesses are inevitable for anyone who acts and attempts to change things. Greeks and Greeks have full knowledge, they have an opinion, they have a crisis, and through this debate their knowledge and their opinion is strengthened. And at the time when SYRIZA and PASOK-the Change Movement is turning about who will prejudge its own left bank, citizens know well on which side of the political spectrum they must stand, in order to cope seriously and firmly with the times of multiple crises that we are going through. It's the side of the New Democracy government standing. It's the side where Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis stands. It is the side that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will stand up for tomorrow, voting against the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Economou. I remind you, because I'm getting a few messages, that by the number of a hundred ten we're going today. And Mr. George Kotsos is called at Step by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been following the procedure since the morning, and indeed SYRIZA gives me the feeling that it does not have much faith in its motion of censure. That is why rather encouragements were needed to come to the Chamber, since in the morning hours until noon three, at least four Members were present. Obviously, the motion of censure you tabled is nothing but a rifle in the air. In fact, you feel that you are more interested in rifles, that is, noise around yourself than the target, because you shoot the government, but you are rather targeted at the Change Movement. Or, to say otherwise, first you shoot and then you point. That is why I also see an impossibility on the substance of supporting all this proposal that has been tabled, which, as it turns out, is dictated by the polls you are complaining about, which you are enthusiastic about, but rather by the demographic findings that bring you into a bad political position - the Change Movement Movement a breath of you - your internal issues have prompted you to make this movement of impression in order to create a noise, try in this sense to enclose your electorate your electorate and possibly also the parliamentary group, but at the same time you are also trying to safeguard the position of Officer, which you are probably aware is in danger. In fact, I have heard several of SYRIZA's colleagues say that you must "go away, you are incapable!" All right, I'll make a business case. The government is leaving. Do you have a proposal for a government? With who? Have you contacted any of the other parties to co-operate in order to create this notorious 'democratic co-existence'? Does he accept to work with you the Change Movement? I haven't figured that out so far. As far as I can see, he has a large number of opposing positions on many issues, and he blames you much more than he blames the government. Are you going to work with the JRC? What about the Greek solution? Or with Mera25? You are on your own, ladies and gentlemen! Do you understand that? You're desperately on your own! And you're desperately on your own, because they don't trust neither the parties, nor the citizens. And you know why they don't trust you? Why did you rule, because during your administration, you destroyed the myth of the left account. You have demonstrated unreliability, demonstrated arrogance during your administration, superficiality, institutional irresponsibility and, above all, political inadequacy. That is why you are constantly being discredited and that is why you cannot stand decently in front of society, in front of the citizens, so your percentages are constantly sinking, so you feel the need to draw the lights of publicity on you through the motion of censure, a motion of censure against a government that now has been facing four extremely serious crises, confessingly, which is not just us, but the citizens who trust it and rank it first. Whether it is called a 'national crisis', whether it is called 'health crisis', whether it is called 'climate crisis' or now called 'energy crisis', let us see whether the government has done so badly in these crises, so that it encourages you to call for elections through a motion of censure, without, I repeat, having a proposal on what will happen if the New Democracy accepted the request, because, as Mrs Bakoyannis said, sometimes the demands are accepted. And I come to the national crisis in Evros in March 2020. Aren't we all proud of the way our government dealt with it? Are we not proud that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has indicated that Greece's borders are Europe's borders, bringing the entire leadership of the European Union to Evros at that time? Aren't we proud of how our government has worked on foreign policy so far? Signature of an EEZ with Egypt, signature of an EEZ with Italy, agreements with Israel, United Arab Emirates, Greek-French Agreement, agreement with the United States of America, upgrade of Alexandroupolis that has placed Erdogan around and made him nervous. As far as the pandemic is concerned, we have supplied the vaccines that are available to all our fellow citizens early, while the vaccination chain has worked perfectly and received 43 billion from our Government, strengthening the unemployed, businesses and workers. Same in the climate crisis that we had to face floods, earthquakes, snow, without meaning that there were no mistakes. We are barely trying to highlight civil protection as a mechanism run by the state at national, regional and local level, and will in particular raise awareness and educate our citizens about how to deal with these intense climatic phenomena which, from the outset, are going to be visited from this point of view and from now on more and more often. Of course, it is through this process that major projects are being promoted, such as the subjugation of PPC's networks, and of course for my home country, for Cardiff that has been destroyed irrigated, that we will have over 200 million euros to support these networks. "112" is also a major conquest for Greece. I shall conclude, Mr President. I come a little in the energy crisis that knocks on the door not only of our country but also of Europe. Has the government not taken steps to stand side by the whole society, either of farmers, by reducing 80% of the adjustment clause or by subsidising 50% of energy costs? Over 1 billion 350 million has been spent in this direction by our Government so far, while another 400 million euros have been added. Of course, we also highlight Alexandroupolis as an energy hub through the LNG warehouses of the gas. Aren't these important conquests? This is the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen. The party that supports society, the party that is next to society, the government that leads Greece to tomorrow. Come with us! If you can't follow us, at least don't pull us back! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Kotse. Mrs. Evangelia Lykolis from the Change Movement is now called at Step, which, as I see it, does not intend to upset me. Then I will give the floor to the Minister, Mr Screka. Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing from this step in the capacity of the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Change my deep regret and bitterness about what has been done yesterday and the decision of the President of Parliament to withdraw the concession of the Chamber for the sitting of our parliamentary group six hours after it has been granted. And I was an eyewitness and an eyewitness in this. So the President of Parliament has changed his mind six hours later. I can't know what and who made him change his mind as he hasn't gotten used to us in such behaviors. I know, however, that this is an unprecedented anti-parliamentary, anti-parliamentary and anti-democratic decision, and indeed, on the assumption that Parliament is supposed to meet and that no parallel meeting of the parliamentary groups is allowed, at the same time as Mr Mitsotakis was with you, with the New Democracy Members, in the building and you discussed the motion of censure. Two measures and two standards in Parliament, but with the obvious effort to reduce our spending, with clearly and humbly the springs of the inadmissibility that has been reserved for us. We understand your discomfort from our impressive and constant performance. But don't be so nervous. We have restraint and wisdom. We understand your logic, gentlemen of the government. Whoever's not at your table is on your menu. You understood, however, that we are not at your table, but be sure that we are too hard to be on your menu! You can't chew us or swallow us. And while he was expecting at least Mr Tsipras and his resignation a direct condemnation of yesterday's parliamentary conduct, we have received dissent! I saw Mr. Chakaloto pick up sometime, but you didn't say anything. You didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u196	He didn't let me. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u197	He didn't leave you and you couldn't even say it out of a microphone. Radio silence, then! It's when they don't speak their mouths, they speak their eyes, Mr. Chakaloto. That's how it's done! So the PASOK is back here, and that's clear and that's what's bothering. That is why the motion of censure has also been put forward. What's wrong with you guys? A board of salvation you tried to find, and instead you threw a lifesaving in the New Democracy to rally its world together to rally its parliamentary group. You made things good again! So both of the 'cocks', and with these things, we are told that we are the contradictory ones. Why? Because we are voting against the government, but we do not want elections. Really, how unreasonable are you? How much more political extortion? We, gentlemen, did not say that we did not want elections. We said we weren't asking for elections. And we don't ask for an election with a hundred dead people every day, with a grief and an agony of thousands of families, with pain, grief and suffering! That is what we rank as a priority. What are you doing with hospitals falling apart and our people trying to save themselves? Don't you know that? Where do you live? Do you live in a parallel universe? In particular, you of SYRIZA, you who take the mask down, did not ask, as you said, for elections, because then we had fifty deaths a day. Now that we have a hundred? They've doubled and you're asking! Now you have an argument! How contradictory you are and how hypocrisy, really!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u198	To prevent...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u199	This morning, as I hear you speak yesterday, of this wing, about the infamous apologies of the Prime Minister, about how grand he was, how majestic he was and how brave the apology was. Our President, Nikos Androulakis, who is attempting to fade into Parliament, in the temple of democracy, has described half the Prime Minister's apologies for the latest events in the management of bad weather. The apology was really half, but it was mostly pretextful, because there was no consciousness, no guilt, no sense of your inconsistency. The Prime Minister of Half Apology made no change, gentlemen, no correction! All he said is that the co-responsibles do not agree properly, because they are not in the same place, they are not close. So it was the table, the table that wasn't big, and the room that wasn't the same! So that's what you're gonna do now. You will put all operators from Crete to Thrace in a room and on a table and you will solve the problem. We are voting against you today and tomorrow. We are voting against you for the "excuse" you did not say to our thousands of fellow human beings, who have become part of the revelation, for the "excuse" you did not say to the thousands of people locked in the Attica Road, mothers, fathers, kidney patients, heart disease, cancer patients who have been detached from the army, not from you, for the "excuse" you did not say about your lie because you have never given a mandate to shut down the road while it is your responsibility. We are voting against you for the "excuse" you did not say to our people because the political management of the pandemic has sent thousands of people to the grave, degressed the ESS, reaped the private health sector, for the "excuse" you didn't tell our people that most of them live on the limits of poverty with hunger wages, with the accuracy of whistling it and unemployment levelling it up, for the "excuse" you didn't tell the young people who are leaving, who you want economic immigrants because they have no hope or faith in your own account. We are voting against you for the apologies which you did not say to the women who are being abused, who are on the sidelines and nothing organized and institutionally you have done, but to them, as to the health care systems, for the courage they have to reveal to the rapists. We vote against you for the "excuse" you did not say to the self-government that you are strangulating it, you are taking it off, you are making it a long hand, a poor, fatal and uncomfortable, for the "excuse" you did not say to those who have made them into traveling triumph by rotating sessions. We are voting against the 'excuse' you did not tell the people who trusted you to make reforms and present them with a story about so-called'multi-level governance'. So you are owed these regrets, gentlemen, and you have not said so. It wasn't just half your sorry. She was unconscious, too. Your bad legacy just hides your ruffles. So we mature now come different and bring the original proposal to the fore, social democracy with people. People are our power. We are determined to fight with new strength for the dignity and democracy that you do not have in you, do not believe it, you do not give it to people, so you cannot apply it to your policies. Throughout the state we see the worthy and only those ahead. We envision a Greece that we deserve and a Greece that deserves, the Greece of pride without apologies, no apologies, no hates, no half or wholeheartedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. Did you see? He didn't bother me, he said, and he did, he didn't get away. Mr Konstantinos Skrekas, Minister for the Environment and Energy, is now called on to move to Vima and to prepare Mr Boutsikakis from the last seat. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I think that yesterday's motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA is an excellent opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss what has been achieved in the country over the last two years, but also what we are going to do in the next two years. It is true, it is true that the excellent snowfall that has hit our country in the past few days has reached its limits on the operational capacity of the TEN, i.e. the middle and low voltage network operator. In particular, let me tell you that in the bad weather of 'Elpida' the snow storms that hit our country last Monday caused damage and damage to seventy-nine middle-voltage lines, while at the peak of the phenomenon we had two thousand off-electricity benefits in forty municipalities in Attica. In a few hours and until Tuesday morning, about 50% of the damage had been restored, while with the efforts of the employees of the TEDO on the same day and within twenty-four hours of the start of the phenomenon, the current came back to 97.5% of the cases. All of this, I have to say, with great difficulty in accessing because of snowfall, of course. I would like to tell you that, in order to address these damages, more than ninety staff and workshops were mobilised, apart from the Attica's power. We are talking about the things that came from Patras, Nafplio, Argos, Evia, Thebes, Chalkida, Trikala, Thessaloniki and other regions of Greece, while there were two other fronts, which had caused its exceptional vigour in central Greece and Evia, as well as in the islands. In particular, the islands of Sporades, as well as Andros, Tinos and Gia had been strengthened by additional forces to deal with possible problems and to ensure that we are not dependent on the banning expulsion. For example, in 2021 the Sporades were over twenty-four hours off-electricity, while in 2020 Andros and Tinos had left over eight and twelve hours respectively. I must also tell you that this year only a few hours ago was in Andros, which was restored. In Evia and central Greece there were extensive damages to a large number of settlements that left without electricity, along with Attica, another thirty thousand households. But, by late Tuesday night, on Wednesday morning, 99.5% of cases were restored and the workshops had come to help Attica. But who really can, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, assess whether it was effective the intervention of the TEN forces in the restoration, when there were sporadic points and houses left without three - and four in exceptional cases - twenty-four hours? Let me tell you that last year in "Medea" there were seventy thousand households in Attica in fifteen municipalities. Within four days the provision of 95% of households had been restored, while on the fifth day the restoration had reached 99%. In other words, this year we had two and a half more homes without electricity, and the electricity was restored to half a year compared to last year and with a double snow volume. Have there been failures in the restoration and management of faults? Obviously, there would be. Are we satisfied with the way the TEN has restored the damage? No one can be satisfied when there is a house that has been left without electricity for three or four days, but we must take into account what we received two years ago in terms of the situation in which the TEDO was situated. I will tell you, for example, that in a similar exceptional situation, in the fire in Eye, where we have seven and a half thousand benefits, there have been damage to only three middle-voltage lines and it has taken seven whole 24 hours to enable the latter to get electricity. That's what I'm talking about for comparisons. We continue, however, to try to improve even more what we have received from the state machine and from the supervised bodies that we have. What are we doing to upgrade the TEN to support its skilled, and strengthen it with young people who will take the spoon from the old? We have announced recruitments of seven hundred and sixty-four people in 2021 and another three hundred seventy-seven places will be launched in the first quarter of 2022. We've moved on to airspace groundwork. What we have to do since this year's and last year's weather disaster, from these weather phenomena, is that, because of the climate crisis of such severe phenomena, they will be repeated every year. We had it with 'January', last year with 'Medea', and this year with 'Hellenic'. And all this, unfortunately, is repeated throughout the planet. More than fifty times have increased excellent weather patterns all over the planet. We must also say, when it comes to subjugations that within 2021, it has been launched - it is not a wishful desire, it has started - seventy projects amounting to EUR 18.5 million budgets for subordination of two hundred kilometres of airspace. Many have already been completed, while in progress are projects in western Greece and islands, with a budget of 16.5 million and a hundred miles. In 2022, 100m euros are scheduled to be invested in substituting a thousand km of airspace and in 2023 150m for substituting a thousand five hundred kilometres of airspace. Let me give you an example, which shows what state the DATA was when we received it. He had no poles. In 2018, TEDDA bought eighteen thousand seven hundred pillars, seventy-five thousand trillions in 2020 and eighty-nine thousand six hundred in 2021. What does that mean? It means that investments in the replacement of the airspace have been greatly increased, in modernising it, in the new connections that are being made, in upgrading it. We have also put an end to the salt that was in place for who has the power to fare the trees. We have passed a provision on Christmas Eve whereby we allow the DEDEFOP to proceed to deep down to dangerous strands on either side of the electricity distribution network only with a notification of 15 days to the Forest Service at the relevant office. We saw, for example, that in the north of Attica, where deep branching had taken place in the previous period there were almost zero problems, while last year the main volume of problems had been identified. Of course, I must say that we have proceeded with a procurement procedure of 7.7 million smart cash, so that we can finally see who has electricity and who does not. At the moment, to find out if a house is electrophoretic, one should visit it. In 2022! That's what we received after five years that SYRIZA was in the government, that's what we're trying to fix very quickly, and that's what we're doing. But I will leave what has troubled us over this period and go to something else that SYRIZA blames us for, to increase the cost of energy. Everyone has understood - at least those who read and updated - that there is a huge international energy crisis. It's not a Greek phenomenon. There have been five times the gas prices, and this has flowed upwards, and it has ejected the electricity prices. I'm gonna need five minutes, Mr. President. The Civic Opposition, therefore, accuses us of confronting, says, the international energy crisis is supposed to be on communal terms. And I ask you: The EUR 1.7 billion which we have just spent in five months, from September to the end of January, for the support of households and businesses, do you think it is a communal trick? They are the majority of money in proportion to the population and economic sizes of the Greek economy between the twenty-seven countries - members of the European Union. Greece was and is among the first two countries that proceeded in September to support measures horizontally of all households. Let me remind you that we started with a subsidy of only EUR 9 per month in September for the first 300 KWh for all households and we came to subsidise with 49.5 euros, that is, 50 euros per month, all household accounts for every month in December. In January, after a very small de-escalation in international energy prices, we continue to subsidise all the main dwellings horizontally, regardless of income, with EUR 42 a month. This is 4.20,000 benefits. Horizontal, not only those vulnerable. Furthermore, for vulnerable people we have the social invoice, and of course we are subsidising them with 54 euros a month. We have more than doubled the heating allowance from 74 million to 184 million euros to support households and those who are beneficiaries of heating allowance against oil and gas increases and in addition to the increase in heating allowance we are subsidising with 20 euros per MWh of all gas consumption in January and an additional 20 euros is a discount. That's what you think it's like to be communal artifacts. Finally, we have also activated the extraordinary energy solidarity line, '15902', so that we can re-evacuate households to an absolute financial difficulty, and we are even paying 100% of the debts due up to EUR 6,000 and over EUR 6,000. Greece is then the first of the twenty-seven Member States to obtain approval from the European Competition Committee to support businesses. From 1 January we are subsidising MWh with 65 euros of all the businesses from the smallest, from the smallest professional, from the farmer to the largest business, and also subsidizing with 30 euros the thermal MWh in the natural gas they consume. And, of course, we have announced that, for the period September to December 2021, we will have EUR 50 million to absorb 80% of the increase, that is, 80% of the adjustment clause for farmers. That is what we have done, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Unless that's what you don't understand and you think it's just communal terrestrial. We have also moved to suspend public utility services for energy-intensive enterprises in the middle and for all rural enterprises from November 2021 to March 2022 and, if this special account does not have to be paid for, this deferral of the charge will be offset, i.e. they will not be charged at the end. Looks like the bill has a surplus. That's what we're saying. These are short-term measures in order to be able to support and directly absorb the energy appreciations against these sudden and transient ones, we want to believe, they may last for several months - conditions prevailing in the international energy price. No one knows how long this will last. But we have said that we will continue to support households and businesses as long as the international energy crisis lasts. But that's not enough. We need to move - and we are moving forward - on permanent solutions so that we can also support households and businesses. What's the best way to reduce electricity costs? But of course, consume less energy. How do we achieve this? By saving electricity consumption. We proceeded to the new "EXOCOCOMOVO", so that fifty thousand of our fellow citizens could upgrade their homes. We changed everything in relation to everything that was in existence and all that we received from you. You didn't have a special charge for vulnerable households. We recommended EUR 100 million for vulnerable households. You had no social criteria. We have set social criteria. Any family that has a disability member, who is a multiple family, who is a single parent family has more molecules and is higher on the list of those who will be able to upgrade their home. Also, those with a lower income have a higher subsidy amounting to 75%. That's what we do. You've done some other thing. It is the enormous interest of the citizens. He's grown up a lot. Applications from vulnerable households in your own programs were under 5%. Today this has tripled. Three-fold vulnerable households submit applications for the "EXOCONOMO" that we, New Democracy, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has created and announced. On 15 February we extended for applications. And we don't just stop at the homes and homes of the citizens. We also move to the public with the EUR 650 million ELECTRA programme for the energy upgrading of public buildings, an additional EUR 450 million public spending, will lever about EUR 1 billion for businesses and start at the beginning of the summer, and in the next five years we will finally mobilise over EUR 4 billion for energy upgrading and energy savings in our country. The Prime Minister... Listen, they're quite interesting to find out why you're saying all this is communal terrestrial and we need to prove to you why they're not communal territips.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u202	It gives you 'food' now and especially Mr Spirtzi who follows it!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u203	I will end in two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u204	It's over. "Food" gives you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u205	The Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, announced a grant programme for the replacement of power-driven and old power-driven devices. Over two hundred thousand households are planning to replace air conditioners and refrigerators with a programme that will work during the six-month period so that they can reduce energy consumption and, of course, obtain a better device. It will be possible for two thousand households to replace old and energy-intensive air-conditions and fridges old and energy-intensive, and until summer we are moving forward and opening up the EUR 100 million programme for the installation of photovoltaics by the municipalities and providing electricity at almost zero cost to vulnerable households.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u206	And hang up with this, Mr. Screka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u207	We create energy autonomous households with photovoltaics on the roof, and in fact, we open up new...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u208	Mr. President, mercy! Should the ministers not obey certain rules?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u209	Listen, Mr. Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u210	You have rules, too, Minister, that you must obey.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u211	And it will also open up an electronic platform, especially for households, to apply for and build a photovoltaic in their homes, to self-consuming the energy they produce at very low cost and thus achieve national energy autonomy in homes, and we are doing the same for businesses where we have EUR 160 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u212	And that's what you're closing down with, Minister, please. We've gone a long way.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Screka, you have rules too. It is not just the rules for parliamentarians. Should Members not speak at some point?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u214	Listen a little. If you didn't interrupt me, I'd be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u215	It's over, Mr. Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u216	Now you're talking out of the rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u217	Please, Mr. Bucikaki!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u218	Finally, we support the program "I move electrically", and we increase the subsidy of a new electric car by 30%, we promote the purchase of electric bicycles and, of course, we move, as you know, on degreasing, but also on the interconnection of Greece with Cyprus, Israel and Egypt, as has already been announced. And with all the above, you understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you wanted us to end up in a hurry and not hear all I had to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u219	I've already left you seven minutes longer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u220	You understand that at the moment in Greece an energy revolution is taking place, which ensures stable and affordable energy prices to Greek households and businesses, ensures thousands of new jobs, reduces the emissions of greenhouse gases that cause the climate crisis, thereby protecting the environment and achieving climate neutrality. That is why I think the decision on what a Member should vote on with all that I have said, in your question about the motion of censure, is very easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u223	Here you go, Mr. Chakalote.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u224	On a point of order, I did not intend to answer Mr Screka. As you can see, to speak more MPs, we are very pitiful in relation to...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u225	Whatever you say, you're right. The responsibility is mine...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u226	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u227	But I don't want to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u228	You gave me the floor, let me finish, please. We don't have a dialogue. You gave me the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u229	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u230	We're quite pitiful. It's not like the budget. Yesterday the President, Mr Tasoulas, said that the ministers would keep the time. Mr. Screkas came here, three or four times you asked him to stop, he had twenty minutes to speak and he said "I will speak for twenty minutes". This is an insult to you both in the Bureau and to us. So, to know from now on, does the President's directive apply?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u231	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u232	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u233	It's true.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u234	In fact, Mr Screkas also had a tone, that 'we do not want to hear'. What are these things? Parliament is here. It's not Mr. Screka's fan club to go to his district and applaud him. We've got another job here in the House. And please tell him it wasn't right. Something to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u235	I told him when you were talking. Of course it's my fault, but I'm not one of the people who shut down the microphone. To be honest, it's my fault. Mr Christopher Boutsikakis has the floor from the New Democracy. We should wish him a lot for his feast for years. And please, temper from the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. I wasn't celebrating on May 9th, but wishing. I would also like to say that Mr Chakalotos here is being cut off on the subject of the procedure and all the things he says, but he intervenes and discontinues the minister out of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u237	Go ahead, go ahead, we've been through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u238	After the twelfth.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u239	What does it matter? I've seen...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u240	It was 15 minutes. We're not going to solve this right now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u241	I've seen your MPs speak for 15 minutes from this Step in this process!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Boutsikaki, please, in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u243	He was the first Minister to behave with such arrogance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u244	In your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy party, this great national party, the party founded by Constantine Karamanlis, the party that boldly and boldly stood together and united the Greeks, is the one that the nation's ruler once taught us that the virtue of democracy is the truth. He said that where there is no leadership to have the courage to tell the truth and the people to have courage to listen to the truth, democracy does not thrive. So, Mr Mitsotakis signed this agreement of truth with the Greek people. This agreement is even worthy of now. That is why he, with responsibility and courage he apologized - and was apologied - for the Greek people. We, ladies and gentlemen, are not hiding anything, we are not trying to be pleasant, we are not playing the theatre in the Greek people. Mistakes are made and made, especially when you're in the field and fight, you can make mistakes, weaknesses that we recognize, discuss and correct. Indeed, certain structures did not work, especially those which had been neglected and dismantled in previous years and which had led to the disintegration of the former government, with tragic results, as we have seen in the past. Political protection will turn failure into lessons and action. Finally we reform structures that will work tomorrow and we will do so properly, as we did with national vaccination, as we have done with digital transformation, as we do with the necessary reforms in education, as we have achieved in the economy and brought the Greek economy to a path of strong growth, as we have managed and held up tourism, overcoming all expectations, as we have achieved in the field of foreign and defence, raising Greece, shielding our country diplomaticly, militaryly, with strong alliances and defensive support. But let us say another truth, the truth behind SYRIZA's proposal of distrust. It is clear that on the day we voted on the development law, a tool that would go and go when our country was voted even further ahead, SYRIZA invested once more in destruction, pain and division. And yes, while the entire state mechanism at all levels gave battle to extreme conditions, SYRIZA chose to oppose the snow. A political firework, on the one hand, to get away from the demographic collapse, on the other hand, from his Chief to bend the inner-party question. Let me not mention all of what is evident, the anxiety of the lack of political proposals and the fear of where it will end after the next elections. Second, third, or 3%? He seeks to lead the Central Left by exploiting the absence of the Head of KINAL. But, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, this political hunger is about you and KINAL alone. We can only thank you for the opportunity you have given us to talk about the great work of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis over the last two and a half years. It separates us from abyss political, cultural, aesthetic and worthy. Do you really want to compare? So come on, let's do it. Your hypocrisy and indifference are clear about the critical, major issues that afflict and torture the Greek people. It is clear that there are no proposals and substantial opposition criticisms. May I remind you how many times you have given us references to your own government to table a motion of censure, a motion of censure, to your government? Can I freshen your memory? We have the fiasco of "NOVARTIS", we have the Eye, the destruction in Mandra, the Embassy Agreement, the manipulation of the media, the land, the capital control, the dangerous and ideological changes in the Criminal Code, the conscious freezing of investments, interventions and efforts to guide justice. But we should not compare it with yesterday. The comparison is made with today's reforms and tomorrow's challenges. We don't forge the present and we won't forge the future. Unlike SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, we always speak the language of truth. And you in your turn have come the time to tell the Greek people just once the truth, that neither do you want, nor can you govern, and you know it very well. The refreshing motion of censure is the last and already burnt paper by Mr Tsipras and the political chapter of SYRIZA, which is slowly dwindling. The temporary impression of this proposal leaves Greek citizens completely indifferent. As far as Mr Tsipras is concerned, he has already been defeated several times. The daily verdict of the Greek people is clear. At some point, and I guess soon he'll miss it himself, but you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, too. I will give Mr Christos Spirtzis the floor by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance. Then to Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis from New Democracy, the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA will speak - Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsakalotos. Here, Mr Spirtzi, you have the floor, and you won't be sad at me, because you're used to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u247	Like Mr. Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u248	No, like Mr. Screka. You want to be the same as him? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u249	We must be treated equally, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, who can compare to what we have heard for two days now? Nobody! Let's let you know it's raining out. The reasons for snowing are missing. It will be done by nature, what you should have done. And if we flood, no problem, some patience will be made by the Greek people, the sun will once come out and dry. Nowadays, however, your arrogance, your arrogance, your lie, the propaganda of the type of Goebbels that you have been saying all this time, but above all your removal from society. The ministers of government disappeared once again, as they had disappeared in the fires, as they had disappeared in "Medea" last year, as they had disappeared in Karditsa. They were vanished. You didn't have the sensitivity, one of you, to go to the prisoners. And you come here to tell us about Matty when we weren't gone one day from there! You've forgotten them for two and a half years, you've got them five days without power along with the entire East Attica and you have the face to talk about Matty. Aren't you embarrassed? Carry on with the tombble that you have one Eye every day! But, ladies and gentlemen, either the final office of Mr Mitsotakis, either the ministers - the non-existent ministers, because there are no, you know - of the government, either the television star districts, the majority of your mayors, or the 'ATIC IGO', or the rest of the polls that are taking place in the snow of all Athens, whatever it may be, are all members of the consortium that fought Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance to get the government lost. And since we do not say air words, I will start specific questions-disclosures to show this thing and we expect answers from either the Government Representative who is in the Chamber, because the other ministers have left, or from the Minister for Civil Protection. So at first the Goebbels type propaganda came out and said it was the EMY's fault. And I imagine Mr. Economou convinced me that the meteorological service had said so. Then you said it was Mr. Patolis, your district chief. And we're really wondering: was Mr. Patolis at these meetings? Give the minutes of the meeting here and now, Minister, let's see who's fault and who you are! Is it possible that you have held such a meeting and that you do not know that there was no contract for snowstorm and salt? Is that possible? What coordination did you do? Now you're telling us about the Attica Street. What about the rest of the streets? You spoke - it says - with the 'Activities of Independence'. And then you said citizens don't know how to drive. Let's see. It was, at first, the 'ITDD' because it was not closed. Here I will testify to the decisions of the Troy which not only prohibits - because only the Troy can the Ministry of Civil Protection - but also does the lifting of the ban, they cannot be granted by the concessionaires. You know that very well and you lied. Let's go to Mr. Patolis. You showed yourself three days ago that you were ready. Did you check any contracts? The company you showed who's machinery is it? Does he have a contract with the guy who's been there with the channel machines? What's the contract? The two of us again? Let's go down to Takis Theodorikos, Minister of Civilian Protection. He tweeted the man and I'll testify. He said nine vehicles for ELSA. We didn't see any vehicles, no car crashes, no cops. We did six and a half hours to get to the center. Have you seen any patrolmen have chains? Did you see the Truck anywhere? What ninety-five vehicles, ladies and gentlemen? Thirty-five per shift of vehicles, i.e. cars, has the Direct Action and so much more is the Trojan Sea. Take it all together and throw it in it is about a hundred and seventy and eighty separate those that have left out. The nineteen you say were the two-cycles of the DIA, the OPEC, the EMCDDA! Aren't you ashamed to tell people this? Where did you get ninety vehicles? There's a complaint from DIAH that you had them on two wheels in the snow. And in the same interview, what does Mr. Theodorikos say? He says the police officers of the NSAMs, MAT and OPCE platoons along with their fellow soldiers ran to help! That's what you're thinking about the cops and the cops are listening to. Of course, the insecure latch! And let's go talk about the tackboard you've never talked about at all. Who's Commander Attica Road? Is he in his place? How long has she been away? Why is the Commander of the Attica Road serving elsewhere? Tell us! Let's go to the amazing issue of transport, that is, the collapse of airports, the private 'TRAINOSE', which is your vision, you cut and cakes to privatize the OSE, PPC and all the others. Here's your mess here at the airport. Watch image here at the airport, the suburban, the train, the "TRAINOSE". You are already asking us whether we agree on the EUR 2000 compensation. Why has the Prime Minister not said about EUR 2000 compensation for Katechaki, Kifissia, Marathon, in all the other public roads in the region? Because you know very well, as you used to do in all the projects and on the metro of Thessaloniki, that 2000 euros, after being given by the Prime Minister, the government, are sums that the concessionaire can get from the Greek State! Shame on you! And Mr Karamanlis also comes along and supplements this, with a thousand euros for those who were caught in the 'TRAINOSE', when the government itself - I present them, are the decisions to exclude passenger rights on the railway - exempts the 'TRAINOSE'. Aren't you ashamed? Regulation of the European Union. By your decision, do you exclude it and come to sell bubbles to the Greek people for 1,000 euros, which do not apply the regulation and exclude TRAINOSE? Let's go further, because Mr. Theodorikos dared to say about the "ATTICI". Why did the Minister, Mr Karamanlis, not come to vote for the MSP we had put in order not to increase tolls and to see when the 'ATTIC LEVEL' contract expires? When does it end, gentlemen of the government? Is it over or not over? Why haven't you put the Attica Road - hundreds of millions - to start maintenance projects? Why haven't the tolls that took 15 days before the elections increased? Why haven't they tried to increase them for two and a half years? What is the price you gave them?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u250	Please, Mr. Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u251	I'll be done. I have more, Mr President, to reveal. I have much more, but I will close with a great "thank you" to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, to the Government, not for anything else, but because your plan for the ideological and political domination of the Right has collapsed. And you break down together and you know it. You know that, because you're already second! You're already second, and you know it and you're putting on whatever companies you want to do polling. So I'm finishing my place with one of those poems a friend sent it to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u252	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u253	It is one of all these poetry that Suris too would be jealous of for your government, which says: "You are given the occasion, if you love the country, to declare the election, Kyriako, here and now!" Now elections! Get up, get out of here. The place of democratic governance and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much. Until the Step is cleared, the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Theocharis has the floor. Please, be quiet in the gallery! And you've all gathered the screams together back there. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. I am making use of the Rules of Procedure that have been allowed to us. Two words, Mr Spirtzi: it is a shame for your opposition tactics of this kind. You accuse us of arrogance and hear insults, even complaints, why the tolls did not increase! Why did the tolls not increase on the Attica Road? Mr Spirtzi, things are very simple: the more you go up and launch this kind of outburst, the more you go to the third place. And don't worry, it's not New Democracy in second place. This poll, which has so much outraged you and brought you to despair and forced you to ask for this motion of censure, has no difference with New Democracy other than previous ones. All it's got is the closure of the cliff with KINAL-PASOK and that's what hurts you. If you'd like to, let's also do the Climate Change Department.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u256	Close, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u257	If you'd like to, let's also pay damages to victims. But you didn't do any of this, and that's why the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u258	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u259	No, Mr. Spirtzi. What for? He's Mr. Chakalot, if he wants to. Mr. Spirtzi, please! I don't want to ruin our hearts!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, on personal occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u261	He didn't say anything, he didn't swear on you. He didn't say anything on personal grounds. It's over. I was listening fine and I noticed him. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when in October 2020 SYRIZA tabled a motion of distrust to the face of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stavoura, his demographic difference from the New Democracy was 16 units and the percentage of Officerial Response to the intention of voting reached 19%. Fifteen months later, during which the country's helm continues to find the supposedly worst government that this country has ever known, according to SYRIZA's cult arguments, the difference in voting in almost all polls remains more than fourteen, while SYRIZA's percentage remains established from 17% to 20%. So because it has come to go beyond Mr. Tsipras in the polls, but also because you suddenly feel the popular breath of KINAAL, which threatens to corrupt you even from the position of Officer Opposition, you have decided in your panic to reinvest in the screams, as well as in the deliberate growth of existent, of course, problems of micro-participation, perhaps so you come back to political topicality again. Because, in fact, Mr Tsipras and colleagues of the SYRIZA, you do not have the goal of either the Government of New Democracy or Mr Mitsotakis personally, but of being detached from your prolonged inner-party introvert, of assembling what you can from the centrifugal tendencies of your supporters, who are multiplying and, above all, attempting to articulate a convincing political reason, which, unfortunately, has been lost for you in the daily fake novels that you reproduce and the virtual reality in which you live. You have decided, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, to table a motion of censure on the occasion of the recent snow, with little pandemic and precision, as the garnish needed to tie the sweet. In other words, you have put incomplete management of a natural disaster - for which, of course, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already asked for an immediate sincere apologies, demanded compensation for those who have been troubled by errors and omissions and made rapid institutional corrections in order to better coordinate in the future the state machine - in a sack with the results of two global crises, health and energy, for which the New Democracy Government has struggled with nails and teeth and with the help of the citizens has managed to raise a wall of protection for society, but also for our economy, while you are drowning in the swamp of your micro-particular empire and blind denial to put back and put forward fertile proposals. For you, who are now choosing to put the country in an informal pre-election period, placing responsibility on the Government for managing natural disasters, are the same that on your own government you have undermined so much the concept of civil protection that this is just an office in the Ministry, and now it is an entire ministry. And you yourself, who make a motion of censure in the name of the so-called snowy skimen, did not even have the right to resign from rule with a hundred and twenty-seven dead in Eye and Mandra. And you, crying hypocritically for the dead from the pandemic, are the same ones to patronize Mr. Paulakis, who has become a point of reference for the uninvasives and you are the same ones who heard your Chief take the risk of the illness of citizens from a coronary, as long as marching on the streets is done. You are the same that, among other things, you have voted against the obligation to vacate health, which, as a government, brought compulsory vaccination of over sixty, severe fines for forged vaccination certificates, strict penalties for unvaccinant parents, who do not send their children to school. And in the end, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, what government do you request to leave because you imagine an unexistent popular anger? The one who brought Greece a champion to the European Union in the absorption of the NRP? The one who launched the public digital services for the benefit of the citizen? The one who strengthened the national defense in air, sea and land? Is the investment that has brought back to the country by international business colostrums, such as ‘MICROSOFT’, ‘AMAZON’ and ‘PFIZER’? The one who brought 13.5% growth in the third quarter of 2021? Has the one who in just two years and something of governance adopted policies that reduced non-performing loans by around 54 billion euros? What restored the image of the country as an important factor of stability and the pillars of diplomatic cooperation and initiatives at international level? The one who dramatically accelerated the awarding of pensions, restored dignity to thousands of our fellow citizens who remained the hostages of bureaucracy? The one that in the two years' time at the wheel of the country increased the citizens' deposits by 35 billion euros? The one that reduced taxes and social security contributions when you even taxed stones on your day? The one who reduced unemployment to 13%, which is the lowest percentage of the last decade? Those who directly implemented EUR 1,75 billion to deal with the effects of the energy crisis and the resulting accuracy? Also, the one who paid off - and even prematurely - the rest of the loans to the IMF? You know, what your chief, Mr. Tsipras, was supposed to drive it out with duouls, but eventually it was Mr. Mitsotakis who showed the IMF the door of exit quietly and humblely. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA will return to him. The Greek people are tired of the sterile denomination, of the insults and irony of those over the day and of nothing at all. The Greek people want housekeeping and security, they want prospects and stable ground to develop and blossom, innovate and advance. And on this path she trusts the Government of New Democracy because she knows that, despite her mistakes, she has the courage to apologize, to bend the head, to make self-criticism, to be taught by mistakes and to be made better for the benefit of Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too. Mr. Giokas Ioannis is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsakalotos, who has made two concessions, and then we will reconvene, Mr Pafile, because Mrs Keramea, who had to speak at 7 p.m. But we'll find them, don't worry. One in turn. Let us now give Mr Gioka the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u264	We want, on the occasion of today's debate, to relocate the anger and despair of the people of Eastern Attica. A region now permanently with any government and any regional administration in the summer is burning, in autumn it is drowning and in winter it is being buried. An area where a large part of her workers use daily roads such as Attica Street and the Marathon Avenue that were literally buried under the snow these days. An area in which even today, six days later, there are signs excluded. There are signs that electricity has not yet been restored, Mr. Screka, in Eastern Attica. There are extensive disasters in agricultural production, for example in the Marathon farmers, who now have to be supported and compensated for so that they can stand on their feet, but also in order that there are no shortages of basic food. Is this the only area? Obviously, she's not the only one. It is a region, however, the eastern Attica mirror of the deep anti-popular character of your development, of the development that you all are all engaged in and of the enormous contradictions of this system. A region in which huge investment has been made over the past twenty years. International airport, industrial zones, residential and tourist development without precedent, motorways and ports exist the plans for further expansion. And at the same time it is the same area that in 2022 does not have a drainage network. Bear for the date centers of "MICROSOT" in Lavrio and hide that a few meters side by side in the Eastern Attica regions, the world is still drowning in the shells and is with the "bug". It is the same area that the public transport network is from down to non-existent. The school roof, Mrs. Keramos, in the eastern Attica is far short of real needs and not just in pandemic conditions. It is the same area that, after natural phenomena and disasters, its inhabitants experience the ten wounds of Pharaoh, which has no hospital of its own, which health centers are subordinate. And you came from above to close the Penteli Children who served these municipalities and these areas. This is your development. And since the people live in their minds the consequences of this development, that is why neither the hypocritical apologies of the New Democracy nor the hypocritical criticism of the other parties that have governed do not work. Because here none of those who have been in power can play innocent pigeon and hide behind the transfer of responsibility to local administration or behind macabre setbacks and comparisons like those we have heard for three days. In other words, hiding behind SYRIZA's responsibilities for Eye and Mandra or hiding SYRIZA behind the current huge responsibilities of the Government of New Democracy, because in these crucial issues of civil protection, anti-military, anti-Semitism, anti-nuclear armour, important projects and infrastructures for people's needs you are all accountable. And let's get them more specific. Have you voted, yes or no, successively on local government laws that have turned municipalities and regions into a "long-hand" of the state, into a tax-driven mechanism, to a manager who shares right and left with private services that have today led large municipalities and large regions not to have their own snowy or aqueducts or to be rented by entrepreneurs with the unimportant and to be missing at the time of the battle like the ones with which Mr Patoulis was photographed? Are municipal and regional authorities not responsibilities? Not at all. They are co-responsible, because they have accepted and implemented this policy, and now they are bathed as "separate" of the central state, unlike the Mayor of Patras who were out today with the unions and mass media, with the people of Patras and Attica claiming protection measures. Below. Have you privatized, yes or no, one after the other critical infrastructure of the country, airports, ports, railways, so that we have phenomena like the ones we lived with by the train from SYRIZA TRAINOSE? Did you, or not, jointly implement the policy of liberalisation of energy, liberation, fragmentation of PPC and the giantisation of investors' profits, leading both to energy poverty, but also to obsolete and poorly maintained networks, to the generalisation of EEE, to the abolition of stable work, which is a key cause for extensive and protracted power cuts? Did you, yes or no, all of them under the concessions of the country's roads to the great business interests, which the Greek people have paid for two and three times? You did it. That is why both the Government and the New Democracy and all the former have proved unable to protect the people, not because they have to face unnatural natural disasters, but because they are serving a state and a political, the urban state, which is not meeting anywhere with the people's needs, because that was their choice. Because, for example, it was your choice of all governments for the country to be at the forefront of NATO's military spending, and at the same time for it not to have to give money to settle the three-four key flows of Attica. I conclude, Mr President, by saying: 'The problems posed after natural disasters are a result of...' - says - 'the imperfection of human existence'. But is that possible? Is it possible to cause such words and hide behind such vines that the effects of natural disasters are the result of the imperfection of human existence? And it reminded us of something similar, this also outrageous, headlined by "AGEY" one day after the tragedy in Mandra. What did he say? 'People'. In other words, there are no governments, there are no political choices, interests, classes, there is no rotten social system, there is the imperfection of human nature for you and the works of people in general for you. So it's all in vain. It doesn't make much sense to fight, much more for radical overthrows. All you have left is to choose the least bad manager of this barbarity. So we say no, not to the government, not to your state, not to your system, not to the parties moving on the same path. And this reproach of ours is not so much expressed here, but mainly out in the struggle, in the movement, in a wide social alliance where accumulated wrath can catch a place and become a real force of wrestling and a power of overthrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos is called in Step. Mr Arsenis from Mera25 is followed by the Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameos. Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were to give a title what I wanted to say today, it would be: "What you wanted to know about neoliberalism and how to deal with it, but you were afraid to ask." I begin with this because I heard Mr Theodorikos yesterday and today Mr Ceridi, before Mr Staikoras say, but how can we be neo-liberal? We've spent 30-40 billion. For Mr Theodorikos, I am going to make a modern bibliography that can help me by the good colleague, Mr Tsakloglu, because a lot has been written - when I say modern, I mean over the last thirty years - about neoliberalism, but no serious study of neoliberalism does say that neoliberals are for the small state, but none at all. What is this neoliberalism that wants a small state? He may want a big state for spending costs, wars. It could take a lot of expense for suppression. He may want high costs when he is in a crisis and wants to support business. That's not neoliberalism, that strawman you tried to create. Other things neoliberalism does. I wanted to show you that. How's neoliberalism? It is this system that produces all the mechanisms, all these policies that prevent the profit and the space for speculative activities in health, education, and it is the mechanism that legislates, imposes measures to prevent societies, movements, trade unions, citizens from overthrowing the results of the market, that the disparities are the ones that the market makes and no policy should allow for redistribution. We cannot have policies that are above the economy. This is neoliberalism. But it had nothing to do with you spending 30-40 billion, nor does it have anything to do with Kenyanism in the 1960s and 1970s, which was quininsianism with a social state. So neoliberalism has nothing to do with the great or the small state, it has nothing to do with the support, the security of citizens, it has nothing to do with good jobs, it has nothing to do with the support of the middle classes. And I say it has nothing to do with these three last, because these were your election promises, which all promises have gone for a walk. And that's why we're making a motion of censure. That's why we're asking for elections. Did you support the security? No connection to neoliberalism. Neoliberalism wants to take the risk to the citizens, and so we do not make a public health system nor do we consider that to create security for citizens. And, indeed, in the regions, we are shrinking health centres by creating these people who are in the region greater insecurity. But we take them to the doctors' hospitals. We are creating greater insecurity, because the whole world is going to hospitals, and this is a generalised insecurity, which we cannot deal with because we do not want health centres and primary health. Why don't we want her? Because our people, our doctors, don't make money from primary health and health centers. They're making money from somewhere else. So it is not entirely bad news about what you do for health or for energy you do not support the world you need, because your world, the people you really support and not those you are addressing, need not have any harm in increasing the price of energy. In fact, we have Mr Stakoura who tells us: But we are giving horizontal support to someone who has 1,000 euros a month will have a tax reduction of EUR 11 and a person who takes 5,000 will have 275 euros. The 275, however, will cover the increase in energy costs, while the EUR 11 will not. Even if it were different and there was the same percentage reduction and it was 40 euros, not 11 euros what someone won with a 1,000 euros, would still not cover the increase in energy accuracy. You have promised many and quality jobs and you have abolished the eighth hour, the good reason for dismissal, employment rights, the APRD, and so even if there are jobs, they will not be jobs with a perspective, because these four things I have told you about are, not jobs safely, with a view, but jobs that will support the political system. Of course for those who really support and not those you address are small evil, as with the terrible example of how we deal with Brain-drain when a son of industry comes back. It's a terrible success of the government. You promised to reinforce the middle layers. What examples can I give of how disproved this has been? The 1 billion that you did not pay from the NRP and you said that they would be paid in the future by children at study offices that had already done the job and will not be paid? Is that the support of the middle layers? Did the middle layers have kids still sleeping in the children's room, because with two wages or a sure salary, it's not enough to find an apartment of the pre-defence either from a loan or buy it? Of course, for those you really support and not those whom you address, little evil. They'll find their children home, obviously you'll help them with the other changes, like what you did with the parental benefits. You promised the accountability of the state of staff. Here we come to the sphere of surrealism, really, with all that has happened and how you've dealt with it. What's the last state? Your state is an introduction to post-democracy. What is post-democracy? It is the fact that the whole system of forty years has been ruining, where all governments have been trying to mediate interests. Now we don't have that. We have a state with advisors, paramedics who are intercepting and ministers who do not even tell them what time of day they are and make politics. And because this creates a distance between what the state is doing and what do they want and what is the public's struggles, how do you fill this gap? But with communication. Communication has been upgraded to the state at last, because it is the only way to shrink the distance between what you want to do and what the concerns of the citizens are. And why can't you create good jobs, reduce insecurity, help the middle layers? Because your policies are the ones that create insecurity. Your policies are the ones that create inequality. Because your own policies are the ones that cause problems for democracy itself. You have a double problem. You tell your world we'll be back in a little while to normality. Except that normality, the period of great moderateness, the period of great growth, no longer exists. It's a little worse. There is no reason why we are in another period, with these terrible inequalities, with these problems of climate change. We're in another world. But you know what? It is even worse because this normality is not desirable either. Because the normality you have in the back of your mind, the one you are selling to your supporters, was a normality with non-sustainable growth - I imagine here in this agreement, because if it were sustainable growth, I imagine we would not fail, you would not fail us - with a growth that was in a distorted productive model, with a growth with primary social state, with inequalities in 2009, before the decade of the crisis. We therefore have a regularity, as you say, which is neither feasible, that this crisis is not transient - neither health nor economic - and it is not even desirable. We don't want to go back, we want to go forward. For us, normality means being able to get a decent salary, not ending on the 20th of the month for basics. That is why we say: increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. For us, regularity means you're not afraid to open the bills. That is why we say: Reduction of excise duty on the basis of the minimum rates of the European Union for as long as the energy crisis exists. For us, regularity means that the 30s don't stay in the children's room. That is why we say that we need a coherent housing policy, with an increase in housing allowances and a housing policy for the creation of social housing. For us normality means safety at work. That is why we say: to strengthen the EIA, to guarantee collective bargaining and to shield labour rights. For us, normality is to have enough ICU positions, to have medical and nursing staff. That is why we say: investment in the public health system, convergence with the European Union's average public spending, to tackle health inequalities, with priority being given to primary Community health care. These proposals and many other things I could say to you show a different direction. We tell them in society, we tell the other parties, and we want to become the beginning of another government. I have heard from the KINAAL Parliamentary spokesman that what we are actually doing is a conspiracy of the New Democracy. I thought about it. Others have said that we want to rally the New Democracy. I thought, is that true? Isn't that up to us? If the politicians of the KINAL and of the KKE and of Mera25 consider that the world that supports them suffers, is it more or less what we are talking about inequality, private profit, to be precise - indeed - facts that affect the world - if these proposals are in the right direction or others that we could discuss, alternatives, complementary or proposals on democracy and rights, then it is not up to us to not be a question of the conflicting of the New Democracy? Is it not a question of our left-wing, progressive people to discuss, if we feel that it is no longer going, if we feel that society is suffering and increasingly does not see prospects? Isn't that our thing? Are we going to sit down and say 'this rallys the New Democracy'? Aren't we "playing ball" just New Democracy "playing ball"? Don't we have a responsibility? Do we not have a way of addressing society, organising society, listening to society and with this society to show that there is another way? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u267	Will you take all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u268	Last sentence, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u269	You can, if you want, get your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u270	Yes, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u271	Go on, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. That's the point. The parliamentary representative may be right, that this will rally the New Democracy. He may be right, but if he is right, it will be you and you and us, all of us, because we do not take responsibility, if we believe in what we say about this government, organise, politically, find alternatives, leave this government and come another government that will lay the foundations of another policy. These proposals that I have told you cannot be away from what the place needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto, too. Before the next speaker takes the floor, Mr Arsenis from MERA25, until the Stepma has been prepared, I will give Mr Spirtzi the floor to make a statement on a matter that has been raised for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. In my position I addressed to the government fifteen questions. One was the commander of the Attica Road Train. This question is withdrawn. There was a human problem. We were officially informed, so he's retired. It's all the rest, and we're waiting for answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u275	Mr Arseni, you will forgive me because I have now received the Presidency. He will now take the floor, if you do not protest, as a parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. I had no good information, and that's why I'm sorry. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u276	There has been a confusion with regard to speakers, but it has been settled. This motion of censure of the SYRIZA, to be honest, is all it offers is to have a debate in Parliament. The government will not fall. It snowed, Mr. Tsipras, and it came out of you, because otherwise I don't know what reason you'd find. Of course, we have no dilemmas in the motions of censure. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against the New Democracy Government, the New Democracy's policy, which has been unrepeated by variations and all previous governments and therefore both PASOK and SYRIZA. And I'll say below why some of them appear by virginity today. We, however, mainly the motion of censure, for example, made it in the Constitution, all SYRIZA armies were there today - I doubt there was any representative - because the real reproach can and must be made by the Greek people themselves, because, as they all know, the game is set in the House. We therefore call on the people the justified indignation they feel - not only about the latest events, but on the whole from the policy pursued by the governments - to turn it into an organization, a struggle, action, a vindication, to distract and pave the way for a total overthrow. We want to address the world above all, because this is the case, and we want to invite him to think and take advantage of his experience, especially in the last ten, twelve years, but not only, however, but above all. What does this experience show? We will say, the governments are leaving - the song says - and the love is left, but the governments are changing, and the same policy remains and is even getting worse by a government in government. Because, indeed, those governments that have passed - not to go in the past, to go in the last few years - were either called right-wing, centre-right, or left-wing, or a mixture - very interesting mix! - all these shapes have actually moved in the same political direction. And if you want to say it more simply, first PASOK Memorandum of Change, second Memorandum of New Democracy-PASOK-LAOS - and I don't know who others were - third Memorandum of SYRIZA-ANEL - Progressive Government of SYRIZA-ANEL! - and with the consent of all others other than the JRC. Why? Because it is a question we call on the people to answer it in particular. We are going to give our opinion. Why is this big, hard fight - falsifying, false argument, not that it has no basis - why is it all and, in the end, the same policy going on and - I say - getting worse for the popular strata? In my village they say "because everyone drinks water from the same faucet" and it's true. What's the same tap? It's the capitalist system. Which one of them who ruled has called into question the capitalist system? Nobody! Does the capitalist system have any laws? It also has neoliberalism, capitalism is, Mr Tsakaloto, and you know it very well, it is nothing else and there are other forms of better exploitation of workers, a sacrifice of people's needs, to get the profits of capital, so to speak, in this way, in this language. And this is where we need to be honest and honest at last! You are all with the European Union. You drink water in her name, glorify her, rather starve to who will apply the directives more quickly, which are anti-grassy, which define the dominant policy, which ensures the interests of the European monopolies and the Greek business groups and then make the beam that you have great differences. This seems to be more clear on the subject of the European Union. So what's the controversy? The controversy is who will serve these interests better, because don't everyone tell us now that the interests of the Greek people, the worker, the self-employed, the new scientist and others are the same as those of the monopolies, with the interests of business groups and capital, to say so. Letters you know, they're contrary to interests, and people know that from experience, that both the whole pie and the dog can't be filled. The dog will be permanently full, and the pie will be in its favor and the others will be very much to get any crumbs. That's the way it is, and don't do it, unless we've been through, Minister, in an urban society where all social wealth is shared according to the needs of the population. Now, are we wrong to say that all policies, even on snow and elsewhere, have something to do with the operation of the capitalist system? We invite people to think. Let's start with snowfall. You know, in the end one will sneeze and say it's the fault of climate change. But, well, are you serious? He's been throwing snow in Athens for the first time? First time it's snowing in Greece? Where do you live? If you know them, what climate change? Is it because all the state mechanism paralyzed, which caused huge problems, that people almost died, that the power and so forth was cut off? Is that it? No, of course, the criticism of the SYRIZA that is being made here is not to touch on the sacrosancts and loyals, that what is to blame is the management of the New Democracy Government with all the junks it is loaded with and, of course, the first responsibility and huge responsibility for the New Democracy. But why? What was true with your model of all the motorways that were granted to private individuals? Did the privates sell you? I have heard various excuses here, 'we have fined them'. Easy, Mr. Theochre! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How many billions did they have? In the last two years they have had 3 billion euros, they will also give 300 million euros, as if we were giving a taller, a worker. Slowly the punishment! Unless there are other games, they are written, but we are not sure, and that is why we are talking responsible. What really happened to the effective private sector? Or what really happened to the state? Because they both have a responsibility! But why? As we speak of the state, Mr Tsakaloto - and I address you above all - the state is not a perfect state of the New Democracy, the state is hard and classic and never changed within capitalism. The state is organized class domination, three words are. And dominance is in the bourgeoisie, it's what you all served. So why are we seeing this? Because while the state is capable of delivering motorways, of bringing laws in no time, of solving problems in favour of monopolies, however, it is not able to ensure - what? - popular needs, to ensure what is called "Political Protection". Why can't he do that? It is not in its direction, because funds are needed, it is necessary to design, because it requires hierarchy and hierarchy of all those who serve the system and say that the driving force of the system is capital. Let's stop the workers, see what the driving force is. Nothing moves. So they say that priority is not what you say to us, that is to ensure the life of the workers. Electricity: I will set examples. Why every time and especially now - not only in Athens and Eastern Attica - why is the current being cut off from people even four and five and six days? What is the state doing on a TEN-T privatisation path? In order to serve the business groups they treasure, it is speedily for the networks relating to renewable energy sources. Isn't that right? But in order to replace and restore ancient networks relating to the needs of the people, it is ineffective, it cannot be there and has problems in all areas of civil protection, as it is called, which relate to people's lives and we mean the working people, because the others have many alternatives with sixteen and twenty houses and unstoppable wealth. And I come to the earthquakes, to the fires, to the floods that destroy the labors of people's lives and leave many dead. There has been the same situation for many years. Why? Really, why? Give me an explanation! Why every time such natural phenomena occur - and I will not go to the '60s, but in the last twenty, thirty years - is there the exact same situation? Because, once again, people's needs are not ruled out as a first issue, but are hierarchised by the system - and let us say a number of things - by the interests of major business groups. So what do we got? I'll tell you now. It's about Matty and Mandra. It's Tsipras and SYRIZA. It's about snow and fires because of Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Who's unavoidable? And, above all, I'm talking about those who pretend to be progressive. Isn't that the capitalist system itself? Aren't his laws? Isn't that politics? That's not what it sounds like! At most, most - in eight introductorys - 'rotative' are the ideas of the New Democracy. The New Democracy says the same thing. Mr President, I will take all my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u277	All right, Mr. Paphie, I'll give you all the time you've been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u278	We welcome the Prime Minister too! So, what is it now to say something timely? SYRIZA makes a motion of distrust and reliance on the New Democracy Government and at the same time makes a proposal to subdue and supported the European Union that does not consider anti-military and all other things related to the ordinary people, while at the same time it does not speak about the system and goes to load them in the New Democracy, saying that all over the world is well and that it is only in Greece that it is the New Democracy. Of course it is the New Democracy, of course, that has accelerated anti-Fraud policy, but that is not for the past and for the present day, it is for the future, for what it is going to do. I come to the pandemic, where there is criminal management. For anyone who doesn't see it, we think he doesn't have a sense of reality. One is doing two for what happened with the collapse of the public health system, which all governments have forsaken, but also for what happened with vaccines and a number of other things. But here, there's something bigger that people need to think about. What has now proved to be the case for all humanity and all capitalist countries? The barbarity and inhumanity of the system itself has proved. And from what they're writing, someone will tell me about the vaccines and what I'll say about them. Yeah, the vaccines came out fast. Of course, it was before, but they didn't gain, because there was no pandemic. That's how it's written! But how did the vaccines come out? Really, who paid for it? billions of subsidies were granted to large monopolies and pharmaceutical companies. Billions! Where did these come from? From the taxation of capital? Oh, no! From the budget, that is to say from the taxation of the people. And competition has reached its height. Why is all this happening to health? I don't want to say it, we've been through it a hundred times. Because there is commercialisation and because human health is not regarded as a social asset, but a profit product. That's right! And why health as well as education and other social areas are weighed by the European Union, but also by all governments in the logic of cost and benefit. Yes, sir! Cost and benefit in the middle of a pandemic! I'm not talking about the millions of dead, and so on. So for the cost, I said before. I come to the benefit now. Pharmaceutical colosses have a net profit of $65,000 a minute, please! They've gotten away from every limit! It's been trillions, I don't know if they'll get to four blocks. I'm saying a little too much! So who pays the cost? The people! Who has the benefit? The big colossians! The same happens in our country. The people are on their knees. And let me now - I open up a small parenthesis - that we have given EUR 41 billion, etc. Whose is this? Is that yours? Where did you get them from? From the shipowners? From the industrials? From the big dealers? Where? And your own reserves, the pillows, Mr. Tsipras, where did you get them? Of them? After you lowered their taxes! In fact, the first laws were when we got out of the memoirs. And so is the New Democracy. So don't squeeze, "a commemoration of foreign steak..."! That's right! By the workers themselves! You talked about war. But what did the private sector do in the war? The private zipper sector! Where'd he raise his profits so much? Directly from the worker - who cannot wait, because he can even die in the public sector, as you have done - and indirectly from the insurance funds. Yes or no? Who pays the insurance funds? Mostly the worker. And I come to the standard of living, and so on, because these are the central issues. I'll tell you something. Well, there's not a little friendly, I mean, politician? Who are you talking to? Are you all talking about the standard of living of the Greek people? You guys weren't the ones who had a fight, did you get 40 percent payroll? Aren't you the ones who broke social security? Aren't you the ones who sent people to unemployment massively? Are you all not the ones who created, not the ones who were poor, people with 300 euros, with 200 euros, with 150 euros, with flexible working relationships and with gallery conditions? And now you're the only one caught and you're talking about it? Precision makes wages even more squeeze and accuracy is a component of the system itself and cannot be avoided. Same as the energy. Aren't you all in favour of liberating energy? Everybody but the JRC! Aren't you all with the so-called green growth? Aren't you all against liberation? Here you all celebrate together, as if the problem of the planet were the lignites of Drama, for example. Aren't you in favour of paying the pollutants and saying that it becomes the most expensive lignite and you're mocking the world? Why is he getting expensive? Because there are those fines. So I conclude with the conclusion. The conclusion is that, as I said at the outset, one succeeds in perpetuating capitalist sovereignty. In fact, I'm going back to SYRIZA, because the New Democracy is clean. We know that he has such a policy we condemn, and so on. Now, of course, as to what this policy brings, you should be careful in your speeches, because people are listening to you. Do not present worlds of angels. The world is miserable and has a great, very great deal of trouble. And what you say about the big successes hears them and a little vervesse, because he looks at his home, his work, his food, health, education and all that's merchandise. We therefore say that only the people can change this, it can achieve some conquests right now and pave the way for the overall overthrow. "COSCO" and "e-FOD" opened the way to how the workers of "COSCO" kneeled a global giant and forced him to make concessions. Finally, I come to the proposal for a progressive government of all the progressive powers. That's SYRIZA's proposal. Yes, sir! So, what's the proposal? Working together to do what? Firstly, we must implement all this policy that comes from the European Union and serves the interests of capital in Greece. That's her, because she doesn't deny her. In fact, you say that the others are good and are trying to repeat in 2015. Do you remember that? What were you talking about? You said Europe was changing. You say the same now, namely 'the South', 'Spain', 'Portugal', etc., 'The hope comes'. But hope does not come with the same policies. They're not gonna change, they're managers too. What do we really do? Should we be American ribbons? Should we go to a government that has Greece on an advanced aggressive US-based basis? The place is full all over Greece! You started this conversation. If it were, we went on our own, if we wanted such a policy, to be associated with imperialism and its most barbaric practices. What can we do? Shall we give an increase for 800 euros that is a decent wage? Are you kidding us now? Anyway, let's ask a question. I have not heard any commitment that says "We will abolish the Brutsi-Achtsoglu Act"! I didn't hear it. Will you remove him?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u279	We talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u280	No, you won't. It is the law that stipulates that the minimum wage is raised by the government. In other words, even this reformist - let us say it on other terms - that is, collective bargaining through class struggle, etc., you want to prevent it. Aren't you with the free negotiations? I'm talking about New Democracy and the rest. Why do you have that law? It will define him and, indeed, on the criteria that Mr Chakalotos said when it was Opposition that it is monstrous. If you're questioning it now...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u281	Finish it, Mr. Paphie. You've also taken dentology and tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u282	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u283	Don't complain. That's the time. It has 12, six and three minutes, that is, twenty-one minutes. Finish it, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u284	Once I talk, and I don't take the floor all the time. So I conclude by making you an interesting proposal. Go with the New Democracy, catch the KINAL, catch the others who have a common strategic choice - with differences, but they are individual - sit down and find a common solution. Make the big coalition... You're laughing, huh? But when we were saying, Mrs Giannakopoulou, that you would cooperate with PASOK with the New Democracy, you found us from up to down. Did that happen too? You got it! Did it happen in Germany? You got it! When the system demands it, it's done. But it doesn't make it easy. He wants to have those who make him delusional. So we, gentlemen of SYRIZA, continue until the people break the chains and not golden them to make fun of them, just like you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u285	Please take care of the Step in order to get the floor for the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Mr Stylianides. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Government, Chief of Staff Responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate on the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition, I have the responsibility to briefly inform you and, of course, the Greek people of what happened in the past few days and of course, to focus on the issues of competence of the newly established Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection. I'll speak honestly, just like I'm always used to. My compatriots know that. I am not going to vouch for what has happened, nor am I going to say that there were no failures and errors which, of course, could have been avoided. The first time we have said and assumed our institutional responsibility. Since the first night we have addressed a sincere and unprecedented 'pity' to the Greek people and especially to those who have been afflicted. We must, however, go ahead and make a fair assessment of the situation and not remain impressed. We must concentrate on the causes and substance. Only then will we be able to understand exactly what has happened, what has not been done and why. That way they'll draw conclusions, lessons and give us a direction. I'm not in front of you to defend myself. I am here to explain - and so I begin - the importance of the work and the national mission of this ministry that has potentially been entrusted to me by the Prime Minister, who has already clearly defined this national mission. Ladies and gentlemen, the work I have done is difficult. I have a full sense of that. I'm not naive. I know I'm working on a minefield at all times. I have many experience of crises all over the world, from Africa, Latin America, Asia and Europe. I know very well what it means to 'crisis-management of natural disasters'. But for certain reasons and with specific objectives, in order to be able first to make use of my European experience in the same subject, to contribute to the creation of a modern and effective civil protection mechanism for Greece, which will mainly meet the challenges of the climate crisis, secondly, to help with the quicker and more effective absorption of European funding into the large programme for upgrading the resistance called 'Egypt', in close cooperation with many of my colleagues and thirdly, so that we can overcome years of problems linked to legal processes and specificities of the Greek state. I was listening. Now that I'm experiencing them, I realize how big they are. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that a strong and effective civil protection system must be characterised by the three-fold 'preparation-preparation, preparedness and durability'. To get there, we need modern tools, technological upgrade. We can't be old-fashioned in a traditional way. We need new modern radar, new modern early warning systems - let me not develop what we need here - which if we had them and if our meteorologists had them, we could also know the volume of snow! We would know how much snow would fall in Attica, Athens, Halandri, Katechaki. We need them. I'm not saying that for an evasion or an excuse. I would like to inform you, however, of what is happening in the other countries. The meteorologists - with those I have spoken to - are asking for these radars. But let us be honest. All that that reflects a modern technologically upgraded civil protection system is missing, ladies and gentlemen. And it is lacking in many countries, to tell the truth, even in medium European countries, because the climate crisis has found us all unprepared. On Monday we experienced these shortcomings very strongly. Personally - you may not have noticed, because we did not have so many problems - I experienced both "Balloy" and "Diomedes". I remember when we decided to close Kifissos - the irony was great - that's where the meteorological signs failed. But we made the decision, because that's how they drove us. Now we've had the opposite. I insist, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time of the battle, in particular, this organised and well-equipped crisis management coordination centre needs a full and up-to-date operational national database. It's not without them. There's no place in the country. We're looking for evidence. There's also a competition that doesn't give each other any clues. There is no horizontal interconnection of these things. It is not possible - and I will tell you what has happened - that civil protection in the small crisis management centre is not able to monitor all cars on all the highways in the country's national roads. We don't have that possibility. Contracts must change. So it takes a centre, as the Prime Minister set it the other day, with a pyramid organisation, where all the decisions, known in all the countries of 'war room', will be quickly and fully coordinated, with responsibilities fully defined, where it will be clear who takes the decision, at which point and on what criteria. Let's confess. We're not there yet. And I'm telling you, I couldn't make it to the three or four months I've been here. But neither could the government in two years. That's a year's work. However, as far as the political will of the Prime Minister and my own and the government are concerned, we are working in this direction to acquire structures, scientific staff who can manage the crisis beside the people of the operation, by the firefighter, by the police, by the military. We have an excellent scientific community. I took a walk to all the universities in the country, and I'm telling you, I'm amazed at the possibility. But we need to system it. It's all scorpions. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective we have set together with my colleagues - I am referring to the State Secretary, Mr Tourna, the Secretary-General of Civil Protection, Mr Papageorgiou, and all others - I firmly believe that it is a national objective. He doesn't have any political features. The snow, the fire, the floods, the earthquake, they don't have a political colour. Without everyone's contribution, we'll stay halfway. This objective, in particular the climate crisis, I firmly believe - and this is my advice - must be a model of consensus, consensus, cooperation of the country's political potential. There is no other way to be effective. This ministry recommended by the Prime Minister is neither Mitsotakis, Tsipras, nor Androylakis, nor much more Stylianides. It is the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection of Greece. Its mission is to make the country resistant to the climate crisis, strengthen resilience and save human lives. It is obvious that this effort does not start from scratch or I do. In 2019, his predecessor, Nikos Chardalias, substantially upgraded the role of civil protection. In 2019 it was the spasm of “ 112” that had its beginning in Mrs. Gerovasili. I want to be objective, so we can all be together. Last September, however, the great institutional division, the Prime Minister's initiative, historian decision, the establishment of this autonomous ministry focusing on the climate crisis, recognising the absolute interconnection and interaction with the traditional repressive concept of civil protection. Significant innovation. In Glasgow, where we were with the Prime Minister, me and Mr Skrekas, all the lights of the publicity of the international media were for that, all the questions were about Greece's pioneering at this point. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change and its effects have gone beyond us. To get ahead of time, we must run at glossy speeds. Prevention, preparation, preparedness must be our main mess. Otherwise, we will remain unprepared and mourn victims. Our main tool is the 'Aegis' project, EUR 1.7 billion. It allows us to build modern civil protection in our country. I will tell you clearly: we are facing great difficulties in implementing it, as a result of the chronic tinglings and pathogens of a state system characterized by pluralism, overlapping and vague connections. Imagine that we have received speeding up approvals from the Brussels bureaucracy and we are having difficulty in the bureaucracy of Athens. They've been pathogens for decades, I know. But we have to tell them, we have to recognise them, so that we can resolve them. With the support of the Prime Minister, we have already resolved a very serious issue. We stopped an unfinished situation that those who went through the Civilian Ministry know it. Mrs Gerovasili knows very well, Mr. Chardalias and Mr. Chrysochoidis also, even older than 2011. We have exempted the country with your own contribution and consent from NATO's financial looseliness for the hire of necessary fire-fighting means for the next fire-fighting period, to follow the operational plan of the fire-fighting operation. After eleven years, this financial debt has finally been solved. Finally, we can now make a plan to lease the airline in the summer before ours come through "Aegis". I'm coming back to the subject of the days. We have faced a very difficult phenomenon. There have been failures, problems and weaknesses in coordination. We've been talking about it all along. That's why the Prime Minister's apologies. The goal is to make lessons and not to repeat them, to learn lessons from failures and omissions. At this point, however, I would like two minutes of your time to highlight a moment of difficult hours, to which the appropriate importance has not been attached. That Monday night, the police boys, the men of the fire and the army managed something impossible. I have experience of such crises too in such circumstances. I think that that evening, what I have seen for some time now was confirmed: Greece has the potential to handle crises, because it has excellent human resources. We want a system, we want structures. These children were the heroes of the evening, because they managed to unlock three thousand five hundred people, a thousand eight hundred cars and managed to solve problems in a thousand urgent medical incidents. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not have dead, because the company was right at the time. That's because of these kids. I don't say it for me or anyone else. They were the heroes of the night. You're asking if there was planning. There was planning. There was an ongoing assessment of the situation on the basis of the evolution and cruelty of bad weather. How did it happen? Unfortunately, it has not been possible to implement to an extent that reduces major problems. The reasons for many: the lack of exclusive competence and the incompatibility, the lack of ability for the Civil Protection to take sovereign decisions for action - we need that, he said, from the Step, before, the Vice-President of the Government - ambiguousity and the absence of identified relations between central government and local government, particularly at the time of the crisis and the absence of control mechanisms in the preventive period. However, we must be honest. I don't feel like colluding with a private company. Retrospectively, however, the conclusions will demonstrate that the weakest link in this chain was the 'ATTITUTIONAL'. I would stress that all the management companies, including the 'ATTIC DRUGS', at the meeting have guaranteed that they can manage the phenomenon and keep the roads open. Specifically, the "ATTRIC DURATIONS" confirmed that they were fully prepared and had more snow vehicles than their contractual obligation. Unfortunately, none of what the company assured was confirmed. Whilst in the case of the "NEW", which was historically considered by the problem company, things evolved as planned, in full cooperation with Train and we had a successful management of the difficult situation. And the question is: why, in the case of the 'new IGC', we have had the successful management, and in the case of the 'ATTIL', we have been managed manually? He'll answer it, the one who helps us find the lessons and the new data, so we can start. You ask many about the record and some with a conspiracy of things. I don't know why. Ladies and gentlemen, the coordination meetings were held in the context of preparations for the upcoming weather phenomenon, not a meeting of either an administrative body or a formal procedure. At these meetings - I have participated so much in Europe, everywhere - it is not practically done on the basis of Union practice, but, as my legal advisers have informed me, not on the basis of national practice. And I asked not now, but at all the sessions that we have been doing here since September. These are ad hoc meetings at which minutes are not held. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I close, let me say a few words to a ton of more staff, because these days have been heard and written. After all, self-defense is an elementary right. Someone's looking for Stylianides. Where was, he says, Stylianides and someone even came out that Stylianides was saying he signed up to some fire-fighting issues at the time of the crisis, which is signed by the latter, a fighter at every fire service, anyway. And that's what we heard. Ladies and gentlemen, crisis management is not done with either yuru and improvisation always fails. It's only done by system, organization, and after you've been able to make things, which means Stylianides won't be released to take pictures of the social media where he is, because my dignity and integrity won't allow me. I prefer losing communication, but focusing on the essence. I accepted the Prime Minister's honourary invitation to take up this difficult task and thank him for honour and trust. I accepted it, as I said before, knowing about the difficulties and the diseases of the system and, of course, recognising at the same time my own possible weaknesses, regarding the non-experimental knowledge of the Greek state mechanism. I accepted the proposal, not because I was unclaimed, not because I was looking for a job, not to become a minister. I accepted because I considered that this was what defined my national duty. I grew up in the green line of old Nicosia. I know what a national support is. When the Prime Minister invited me, it was a moral duty for me, especially a Prime Minister I know very well from my European experience that it has upgraded the country's prestige. I couldn't say no. I did not come here, therefore, in order to redeem anything nor to launch a new political career, nor did I come to Greece as a mediator, nor am I infallible. And as the President of Parliament would say, Kostas Tsouulas, the genius, would simply come as a good-for-nothing philosopher. I accept it. But I am a man I have lived in Greece, my first degrees are in Greece and I have come here with the know-how I have acquired as a European Commissioner and as a European coordinator to deal with the Ebola outbreak and I think I did well there. So I understand my involvement in the government as a service to the Greek citizen, and I would ask that I be judged by them now, tomorrow and at the end of this route. In this sense, therefore, I am continuing to do so, and we will make every contribution as a ministry. Ladies and gentlemen. You will never see us hide from reality nor even more from our institutional responsibilities. I conclude with one proposal to the national Parliament. The challenge ahead of us is 'Aegis'. That is why we can speed up the procedures and have all the tools we need as soon as possible to set up a credible civil protection policy. I believe that this must be our national objective. From the moment I came, I opened the national dialogue. I think and hope that we will find the legal way to speed up the process, because civil protection means urgent and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u287	Thank you too, Minister. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance and Chief of Police Response, Mr. Tsipras, has called for the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President. I hadn't planned to ask for the floor. Listening to the Minister of Climate Crisis, I was asked questions. And since this procedure is not just a process of parallel monologues, we will also have the possibility tomorrow of putting us and the Prime Minister, but I imagine - we know the procedure - without the possibility of asking questions, the Prime Minister here too can answer the questions I am going to ask himself. I have heard you, Minister, and you know that I have no point in having any personal disputes. However, you are not a universal minister, you are a Minister of the Government of the New Democracy, and you are due to the Greek Parliament to explain. You have asked for apologies for both you and the Prime Minister, and you said that this apologies are true. I heard you for 20 minutes, I didn't understand you suggesting us somewhere where you were wrong. So where were you wrong? Why did you apologize? You told us that we don't have radar and that we don't have War Room, we didn't have a radar to predict exactly where the snow will fall, how many inches we will have on Attica Road, how many in the New Road, how many in the Mediterranean Sea, how many in Marathon, in Katechaki. Is that the point? The National Meteorological Service and the scientists in our country, who are neither blue nor red nor green, disprove you, say that this time we had a model that accurately gave the size of bad weather, the size of snowfall, the area that will cover and the time to come. Even the meteorologists belonging to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group have denied the parliamentary representative, who told us that the problem was supposed to be that the National Meteorological Service fell out. So what's that now? You came here to say sorry again, but it's because we didn't have a radar? Of course we have radar. Did anyone say we shouldn't have better radar and War Room and better services? But the NYPD tells us that this bad weather we had on Monday wasn't one of the worst we've faced in Attica. In 2008 we had a much larger snowfall of bad weather. It wasn't a government, SYRIZA, but they dealt with it then. So today, where was the mistake? And it's not just Attica Street shut down. Katechaki closed, and Marathon and the Mediterranean hospitals we have so many hospitals there. So what was it? Why then sometimes have you been able to do so today you have not been able to do so? Are you going to tell us where you were wrong, or are you going to throw the ball in the platform? Or are you going to tell us like the Government representative - your representative, Mr Mitsotakis - that Katechaki, Marathon - do not belong to the sphere of influence of the Greek state, because you want to lay the blame on your own, the 'blue', the neo-democratic republic? You've been throwing the ball away for a lifetime. Will you ever take one responsibility, tell us where you were wrong? And I would like to ask you, Prime Minister and Minister of the Climate Crisis, about the crucial issue of the suffering of thousands of our fellow citizens on Monday evening in Attica. Did you ask the concessionaire to stop the traffic of heavy goods vehicles? Because the company, which has serious responsibilities, of course, but it says. He says he asked you to stop the traffic of heavy vehicles and you refused. And now you're coming to tell us you didn't have any minutes. You have held two meetings, and we ask you in the morning to give the minutes to the public so that the Greek people can be informed, the citizens who have been troubled. And the Prime Minister made the broker with the company, as if there were no laws in this state to establish and respect contracts and pay the company what it has to pay. He assessed the cost himself to possibly give the company or any company to ask the public not to have any other claims and not to be able to do other lawsuits. It is not the mediator's role, it is the Prime Minister's role. But I leave this and I return to my critical question. Is it possible to tell us that our problem is that we have no modern radar, while at the most critical meetings you did not have the provision to press the record after you did them with zoom, and to record what everyone said, what each one asked and you want us to believe you today? So you're either cockroaches in your procedures or you're lying to us. You lie to us to avoid responsibility and that's not worth the Greek people. It's not worth Greek citizens. When you apologize, you'll explain why you made a mistake. If you apologise and tell us that you did everything well and it was because we have no modern radar and that we have no war room and it is because of the Meteorological Service and some regional director and another and another third, then this apology, Mr Mitsotakis, is pretext, is hypocritical and will be judged by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. President. You'll let me run the conversation. I've seen everything. The Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, Mr Stylianides, has the floor in order to answer the Chief of Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u290	Chief of Officer's Response, I answered the Greek Parliament with absolute openness. Let's get them one by one. My European experience, but also by asking the Minister's legal advisers, imposed on me that such ad hoc meetings are not practically kept. In fact, Jean-Claude Juncker, a friend of Greece, President of the European Commission, says that if such meetings are held practically, which are at the level of understanding and cooperation, and which is why they are not kept in Europe, you are creating conditions of responsibility. I firmly believe in this process, because everyone there could not speak. We had to coordinate. If you find a European country that in these meetings is kept practically, we should discuss it. It is not formal procedures, it is not an administrative body. I am not a legal person, I have looked into it very much since the first time I have come and followed the same procedures to 'Balloon' and 'Diomedes' and now. That's the right procedure in my view. If we have disagreement, it is respected. Secondly, with regard to radar, snow volumes and why I said it. The meteorologists themselves would like to know what volume of snow - as they know about the rain - would have. For what? Because if we knew on Sunday evening - and it is not the meteorologists' fault - I am astonished to them because they are excellent and find such good signs even though they do not have the means - that we will fall thirty or forty or fifty in the urban fabric of Athens, we would certainly close Athens at night. We were going to be on holiday. I did it to "Blue" and I wasn't afraid of political costs. Wouldn't I do it now? But we ended up - and here's the announcement we made this evening - that we're going together, we've been tracking the phenomenon since 5:00 with evolution and fierceness, we're deciding. And I repeat, the issue of comparison between what was done in the 'New London' and the 'National IGC', I think, proves that the meeting has made good decisions. After having succeeded in the ‘New Launch’, which was the most vulnerable part, why did it not succeed in the ‘ATTIC DERIVATIVES’? What is happening with this company that has been the most reliable for so many years? I can't look into it, I don't know. But I was present when Mr. Leuteris Economou at the Crisis Management Centre tried and took up two hundred litres of oil to put in snowmoon at 17.00'18.00 - I don't remember exactly - this afternoon. He's showing something. Chief of Disarmament, I'm an honest man above all. In a crisis like this, all I won't say is lies. It's the absolute truth with the facts. I told you, that's it. I accept any criticism. I accepted it. These are the facts, and that's what I'm staying for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u291	Now the Prime Minister of the country, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u292	Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to take the floor, but I have to give some answers to what I have heard from the Chief of Staff. First of all, I would like to point out that the Minister for Civil Protection and Climate Crisis was placed in Parliament with unusual honesty and political honesty, fully recognising the fact that he has been assigned a difficult mission coming from abroad, taking on a role that he did not need. He wasn't looking for a career. But he came to Greece to make use of his important European experience. And he is quite right to claim that the mission of civil protection is a national mission. Snow, earthquakes, bad weather, flooding, no color. And I think you know much better than I know how traumatic the experiences of natural disasters can be. You experienced them well in your line and you and the executives who were judged to manage crises on your own day. So the Minister acknowledged that mistakes were actually made in managing the Attica Road. I'll tell you straight away. The Attica Road should have been closed earlier than it was, obviously, closed. This is evidenced by the result of caging. But the largest share of responsibility does not have the Greek state. The "ATTIC LEVEL" itself, the concessionaire who claimed to be able to keep a road open and did not finally manage to do so. In the course, and weaknesses in the preparation of the "ATTYIKO" were also seen for such a phenomenon. On the issue of snowstorms I would also like to tell you that no meteorologist predicted the snow volume that fell in the center of Athens and unlike other snowstorms, snow fell day after day - usually falling night - and no-one! - meteorologist had predicted that he would drop half a metre in the center of Athens and in the northern suburbs. If we had the opportunity to have this forecast - we do not have it, unfortunately, because we are a country not very familiar with snow, we should also have this know-how - obviously and we would have shut down the city by Sunday night, as we did in other cases where the forecasts of meteorologists were not confirmed. It was therefore not a question of political courage. It was a question of exploiting and analysing the data we had at our disposal. That's the data we had and we made these moves. But I also have two comments to make on the temptation which you always adopt in your places. The first is this. I have identified an impressive voice from the Officer's Responsibility for the responsibilities of the 'ATTIC DUTY'. You mentioned I shouldn't make the middleman. I secured 2,000 euros for every prisoner. You never did it on your own days! And your law did not even provide for the possibility of compensation if the licensee did not fulfil his obligations. So, in the middle of the day, the Prime Minister who had every intention of colluding with a big company, forcing her to assume her responsibilities? So you, Mr. Tsipras, why all of a sudden love for the 'ITD', why is there no willingness to recognize its great responsibilities? It is a question to which you must answer. Finally, because once again you referred to an allegedly pretext apologies, I prefer the apology of the sincerely self-critical, even if it is in danger of being pretextful, than any apologies we never heard from your mouth when you had a hundred and twenty dead in Eye and Mandra!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u293	The parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement has asked for the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, would you like to take the floor? Here, you have the floor, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u296	Mr Mitsotakis, it would be better to be less provocative today, not in your style, in your words. And I'll explain very soon what I mean. Last Monday, thousands of our fellow citizens were locked up for hours in their cars, not only in the Attica Street, but also in the Mediterranean - I repeat - in Katechaki, on Marathon Avenue, for twenty-four hours. These people from whom will they be compensated, Mr. Mitsotakis? Who will they be compensated for? Secondly, and perhaps more critically, it is well known that you want someone else to be always to blame but you. The way you spoke highlights and substantiates and strengthens my argument that your apology was absolutely pretext. Because when you say sorry, you must explain to us where you were wrong and tell us what you are going to do to correct this mistake. Once again, then, what you have told us today is that it is the private company's fault - really, are you not of the opinion that the basic infrastructure is good for it to go to private individuals and not to be public and you are constantly privatising? Now you've changed your mind about this?- It's the National Meteorological Service that didn't predict the exact volume of snowfall, it's some others' fault, some third parties, but you're not to blame anywhere. You've done everything perfectly again! It is precisely the same philosophy as you are facing our criticism of your pandemic and your management, which has led us to the worst positions in Europe, the basic philosophy that you have been following for two and a half years now. The Greek people will judge. But I don't want to leave anything unanswered. As far as the provocative peaks are concerned, we are supposed to defend a private company, and I would like to tell you very specifically, Mr Mitsotakis, this. Each private company operates in a specific context, has contractual obligations to the law, and in particular, the Prime Minister and the Government cannot mediate in order to form the framework within which the private company meets the requirements laid down by the contractual obligations themselves. Mr Mitsotakis, instead of calling the president of this company - and it is also a shame to leave a cap on me - who also happens to be your legal counsellor, to find a formula for compensation, you had to speak directly about its responsibilities and your responsibilities and leave the legal procedure open to every citizen, as the law stipulates. Because Greece is a rule of law. Greece has laws, we are not a third world country. And finally, from this brief debate today, I can see once again that you are trying to evade your responsibilities with smuggling. It is incomprehensible to tell us here today, in the Greek people, in the Greek Parliament, that you did not have a record minutes or even a conference of crucial importance, which was held on Friday and Sunday, with the presence of regional authorities and the presence of other ministers, which originally withdrew. And Mr. Scarchos was present, not only was he the Minister of Climate Crisis, and your right hand, the Minister of State. So Maximus was actually co-ordinated. And the concession company today claims something else. How will you prove that he is lying and that he has the main and primary responsibility? How will you prove it when you tell us that the record has not been kept? Lying to avoid responsibilities is perhaps greater than the stumbling of mismanagement, than the stumbling of some wrong choices that you may have made in order not to make the right decisions to avoid this "ATIC DUTY" fiasco. And I repeat and I close with this: it's not just the Attica Street. They are critical, central arteries in the center of Athens. They never shut down! When did the Mediterranean close, with more snow? When did Katechaki close, when did the Marathon Avenue close? Is these streets out of state responsibility, as your irrevocable Government Representative said? Or is it the responsibility of Mr Patulis and have you decided, in order to save all the other ministers, to put your own 'electable' to the Attica region? And I close with this, Mr. Mitsotakis. At very difficult times for my own government, I took political responsibility - not only for apologies - and resigned ministers. When I asked the then Minister for Civil Protection, who was responsible, to sit in his place for a few days in order to be safe that we will not face an extraordinary event and then leave his post - why did he submit his resignation to me the same night - you the other day what did you say? There's also tweet recorded. 'There is no political responsibility without resignations'. You will now pay in the same currency your own deeds, your criticism, your attitude all those days you were in the Opposition. Because we are all here and we are judged for what we have been talking about and what we are talking about and, above all, what we are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u297	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u298	Mr Tsipras, I think you have realised that the agreement of the 'ATTIC LEVEL', to compensate EUR 2 000 for every vehicle that was caught on the motorway does not deny the right of every citizen to resort to justice and to claim anything more he considers to have to claim. Obviously, neither does it deny the State's ability to investigate the concessionaire's responsibilities and make all the necessary moves to protect the public interest. I repeat: New Democracy Law is the State's ability to claim compensation from the concessionaire if the road is closed. In any case, you referred to the two meetings which were held and to the non-compliance with the practice, when you know that practically no meeting has taken place and you come and say: Who is right here, does the 'ATTIC IGC' have the - by, of course, taking the part of the 'ATTITUTION' - or the Ministry and all the others who participated in this meeting? Tell me, Mr Tsipras, that: if the 'ATTIC DRUGS' had done everything right, why did their CEO resign on the same night? I ask: why did he quit? If the "ATTRIC TREATMENTS" had done everything right, why did they agree to give 2,000 euros to every prisoner? Isn't this the most tangible recognition of the road's responsibility for the incredible suffering caused by thousands of our fellow citizens who were caught in the highway? I repeat: I am asked great questions about the support you give to a private company, when it is clear that it has the largest share of responsibility for what has happened. Finally, you have never asked, Mr Tsipras, for either Eye or Mandra. You took over a few months later, in a question asked at the Thessaloniki International Fair, political responsibility. I'm sorry, you never asked. And I had no intention of reintroducing the debate at a tragic time for the country, in an event which has stigmatized collective consciousness and will mark it for many more years. I would like to repeat, however, because you are talking here about the morale and the style of power, that the criticism we have given you was not primarily about the fact that a fire deprived our lives of more than a hundred fellow citizens, of the fact that you did not have the "112), that you were unable to make the evacuation. It was indeed a tragedy. I'm sure you could have done better. That is not why criticism, Mr Tsipras. You've forgotten. It was for this lousy show you set up that night, when you knew there were dead and you were on live connection and said they wouldn't fly the planes, in an attempt to dismiss your own responsibility in the next few days, which you showed us the digital photographs from Mr. Poppa's supposed satellites about how that was supposed to be the result of arson. It was the covert, Mr. Tsipras! It was the cover and the spirit and style of your own power that was marked and finally recorded in the consciousness of the Greek people. We have another concept of how we should take responsibility. Apologies are acknowledging that something has not been done well in terms of government. Done by the Prime Minister, it was done by the Minister. I told you clearly what could have been better and how we could have intervened more quickly to close the Attica Road. Indeed, I believe that the Minister for Civil Protection today, the next time he will have to deal with such a crisis, he will not receive the assurances that some may give him, that there are supposedly so many snowy ones, the snowy ones have oil, the salt is where it should be. He'll look for it more, and he has to look for it more, because that's his role, and that's his job. However, I would also like to remind you, Mr Tsipras, that, when we came to things, there was no civil protection in the country. Civil Protection - you may know - was housed in a building that would probably be the first to collapse if we had a major earthquake. That was the civil protection you handed us over. We have also made a great effort with Nikos Hardalia, who has done a great deal of work in the field, but also in preparing the 'Aegis' programme, and today we have the possibility of having at our disposal EUR 1.7 billion to finally acquire the infrastructure, but also the know-how and procedures, so that we can be more prepared if we find ourselves - and we are almost certain - faced with not only with extreme phenomena that result from the effects of climate change, but also from the fact that we are a seismic country and from the point of view of fact, we will be summoned at some point in the future to face some major earthquakes. That is the obligation we have to the Greek people. We will learn from our mistakes, as we always do. We will continue to fight for the Greek people to have a Civil Protection policy worthy of the challenges we face and of this very interesting first debate which I think the citizens once again may have drawn some useful conclusions about how you and how I understand the morality and the style of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u300	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u301	Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I asked for the floor on personal grounds, because the Chief of Staff has left a tip on the resignations. I would like to say in front of the Greek Parliament a basic thing. First of all, I have resigned for reasons of principle by Minister of State in Cyprus once, perhaps twice, indirectly. I declare in front of the Greek Parliament, because Mr. Tournas is here, that he is an honest man, Head of Air Force, and it is an honor to have him as a partner. I said if we're dead, I'll quit tomorrow morning. That's how I feel, that's my morale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u303	Mrs Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for an intervention to the Minister, Mr Stylianides - I imagine - and then Mr Hetas, as Parliamentary Representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u304	Ladies and gentlemen, what the Greek people so far understand from the debate that has been held in plenary is that there is a competition between New Democracy and SYRIZA over who has managed the worst crisis of weather and bad weather. So there is on your part both New Democracy and SYRIZA's side, a assumption, that you both in corresponding cases have managed a ruthless and ineffective management of these serious crises. Of course, what concerns the Greek people is not just whether one apologies, if not the other apologies said, an attempt to hide responsibilities - the social consciousness has given them up - and the netting that they are trying to make on the one hand or on the other, from Eye to the fiasco of the 'NUTS', until the end of the roads in 2017 for eight hours, do not forget. This is not all about the Greek people. What they are concerned with is how we are finally going to make a real state headquarters and not what has ended up in a crook, the final state as you say it, and unfortunately it turns out through crises that you are not doing it. So if we want to be useful and serious, Mr Minister, we must speak in particular. We need to speak in detail, not just with a general commitment of responsibility or simply with a general apology and when we go to the specifics we do not have any answers. So I would like to ask you questions, and I would like to ask you to give us answers about these questions. So what was the plan, Minister? We don't know what the plan was. What was the understanding you had with the "ATTIVO", but what was the understanding you had with the Attica region when they had paralyzed everything in all the main roads. When the Army was commanded to enter the battle, when there are complaints trapped for hours on the Attica Road that it arrived at the excluded at 5.00 p.m. after 12.00 p.m. at noon where the problem had arisen. You know, Minister, we, the Change Movement, have tabled a question and an application for documents to be lodged with you for all this inconsistency which has been and has created very reasonable questions and 'grey zones'. We ask you specific things and ask you to submit documents where they exist, if they exist. Today you told us that they don't exist. So we say and ask. When the meetings were held before the event of the snowfall of 24 January, who were called, what proposals were submitted by the services. In particular, what proposals were made by the agency and what proposals were made by the 'Athens LEOVO'. When the first order was given to interrupt the traffic of heavy goods vehicles on the Attica Road and when the ‘ATTICLE’ responded. And when all this happened. Here are the critical points which will illuminate the 'grey areas' that I have told you and give answers. And finally, when there was a check of the functionality and adequacy of the snow-making machines of the "Athens" and, if so, what was the assessment of the control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u305	Before you took the floor, Mr. Heta, I hadn't seen him before, on personal grounds Mr. Economou wants to make a clarification. Immediately after you get the floor. Here you go, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u306	The Chief of Staff Response called me irreversible, using fragmented expressions from one of the many interviews that I gave during those days of the pandemic management, saying "if Katechaki and Marathon and the Mediterranean are part of the Greek state or not", which is replicated by many on the Internet. Another thing about the Internet and the fun, another thing about the Greek Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows or must know that every route in our country has responsibility and competence from the national network, the internal network, the main network, and even the narrow roads. That's what I said in my interview, that's the reality. This ping-poong of responsibilities is obviously unfavorable and is not about the Greek society, nor is it about the world who is responsible for cleaning up every road, but it does not mean that the responsibilities do not exist. The government has recognised its responsibilities with regard to the coordination of the central state with self-government. But if, after every crisis, we want to learn, become better and manage things in such a way that we create an effective shield of armour, we must be honest and not be incarcerated after every climate crisis, after every weather phenomenon that creates problems for us to gain political benefits, showing that the only thing we do not care about is how we actually get to what the Minister described earlier, to have an effective shield against weather phenomena. Whether this approach is unexplained or not is left to the discretion of the House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u307	All right, Mr Economou, what you said was recorded so that there would be no misunderstandings. Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, thank you very much. Mr Stylianides, you will do a minute's patience because as a Greek Solution we want to denounce the procedure for discussing the motion of censure. The snow radar may not work or even have a radar, but it turns out here, Mr President, that the radars of Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras work well and agree well. I wonder what they left to say tomorrow, they said it all today! If that were the case, you had to let us know that the rest of the political leaders would come and do it today. What are we sitting here doing? Let me get this straight. For God's sake! Politicians who are lost and disappeared every day, on Saturdays for the show, for the news releases! That's great! And they offend the whole process. Let's go down. Mr. Stylianides, we really have a question as to how much time you have spoken in your prototype, because I have lost count of how many times you have spoken today. What are you doing exactly? I didn't really understand. Why are you taking over, Mr. Stylianides? Why did you take over, since the state is broken as you told us? What are you doing in Greece? You're saying the things that you described us in a shiny way not to know? Didn't we know here that our state is broken? We waited for Stylianides to tell us today? Really! Mr. Stylianides, can I tell you something? Before you took over, did you suggest that? You said that "I to take over, I want one, two, three, four"? That's how someone takes over, an executive when he goes to a business. We are not fellow Members, we are here, we have been voted on by the world. Why did you say 'colleagues'? We're not colleagues. So when one executive hires a businessman, the executive seriously says: "I with this company can't work. You have nothing. I do not assume that I will fail." So you accepted and assumed with this mess what the state mechanism and this broken-up state has, which, Mr Stylianides, this broken-up state you know, did not happen this morning. Most of you addressing you in here have a responsibility. The man who chose you, Mr. Mitsotakis, in March, now closes eighteen years of MP, Mr. Stylianides. It has a responsibility to dismantle the state and Mr Mitsotakis, if you forget that. Let's go down. So since you took over, you have had to succeed. But since you failed in the first place, you had to resign. You spoke about failures, problems, and you apologized. I would remind you, because you are working together - close to Mr. Mitsotakis, that in 2017 Mr. Mitsotakis' tweet - here we have it - said that "I'm sorry without resignation is a communication show". That's exactly what you do here today, a communication show. Let's go down. You also said that the weakest link was Attica Street. Yeah. Let me tell you that: 'The weakest link' is a nice video game and even presents Cyprus, right? That's right. Mr. Stylianides, you are the weak link. You and the government you serve. You are the weakest link and the sooner you leave, the sooner you will rid the country of your presence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Kumucaco, after the Minister, I will give you the reason to say what you want. Minister, Mr Stylianides, you have the floor to answer Mrs Giannakopoulou and Mr Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u310	I am starting with the Parliamentary Representative of KINAL. I will fully agree with you on the issues of the headquarters that need civil protection. I think we agree, we should not just find differences where there is such an absolute agreement. As far as specific information is concerned, I will testify here, because they ask me if anyone reads the announcement, which after the meeting in front of the media, I said, will find all the answers here. And I have the announcement Friday and Sunday. I should like to return to the practical question, Mrs Medina Ortega. It is not my personal view that, at such ad hoc meetings, the minutes do not matter. The Minutes will bear the climate and there the people, who will have to serve to find common stepping up for a hard physical disaster, will try to evade each other. I'm telling you with a long experience. I'm already at sixty, and... Well, it won't be right for our place if we get into that logic. We won't. I have nothing to lose. If I kept the record, it would be to my advantage. But I won't do it next time. I don't care about making the Minutes and saying that this guy told me like that, the other guy told me that. It doesn't make any sense to me. It is a sign that all those who are involved at that time go together and face the crisis. That is my view and I insist on it. In the meantime, as I have said before, once the meeting is informal and it is not administrative, it makes no sense. And legally, this meeting is covered not to be kept practically. You asked some questions as to when the Army came to help with the relationship with the district. In my speech I have already stressed the problems involved in coordination. I did. I said, yes, there's a situation. I even said about the control mechanisms that we need to see again in the conventions. I said that. I'm not saying that's what's there, and they didn't happen. There aren't any. That is why I asked for Parliament's support and support to be done together. We need to work together. I'll say something you might not know. When your Chief, Mr. Androullakis, was a Member of the European Parliament and is still a Member of the European Parliament, and he was the spokesman for the socialists in RescEU, a new European Union institution for civil protection and climate crisis, we have worked in this way and Mr Androullakis knows well. That's what I think we should do now. I was coming, I was a commissioner of the European People's Party, but we found the solution and we founded the RescuEU, which is a great success and we are both proud of what I understand. He's said it many times too. And now that's what we have to do. I do not want to take any more time and I will present the two announcements, Friday and Sunday, for the full briefing of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u312	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for a minute. Why? What exactly do you want? Proceedings would you like to intervene? Because otherwise you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. It is a point of order, Mr President. The debate on the motion of censure against the government is a top parliamentary procedure, which is finalised, and which requires that it be finalised by the vote of the Members. The Members of Parliament therefore also have the right to vote in this parliamentary procedure. We have all listened carefully to a very serious debate with respect to all the speakers, but in fact it extended the whole process by almost two hours. We're already at 21:30 at night. Many colleagues in all parties have joined to speak. If the proposal made by the Bureau is followed a little while ago, there are many Members who will speak deeply at dawn. The proposal is therefore clear, Mr President: we are half the eighth cycle. Let's go up to the ninth if you want or I don't know in what circle. However, with respect to the Members who are going to speak tomorrow morning's speech and to extend the time of tomorrow's procedure. So since this issue has arisen and we all respect and have listened carefully to what has been said, the Bureau must show proper flexibility, understanding, solidarity and respect for the Members who are invited to vote tomorrow. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. I'll answer you. I do not know if you were here the first day the procedure was set, which was voted unanimously, and we said that the meetings would go by 2.00 in the morning. I, because I knew what you're going to say, have a practical one, which the New Democracy party in 2018 did, which ended - I have it in front of me - 2.17 ́. You understand. We've made up our minds. We've already said that. If you are aware, the Bureau has been in office every day for about 2.00 hours, in order for most colleagues to speak. In addition, Members must show that they are unscrupulous and are not afraid at night and are not afraid of the sidelines. We continue the process and I give the floor to Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u316	Can I tell you, Mr. President? PRESIDENCY (Athanasios Bouras): No, you have no further reason. Explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u317	I do not understand your insinuation about unscrupulous Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u318	I didn't say it insinuatingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u319	When you refer to the MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Kumucaco, you have to leave me. As long as you talk take time from the time you want to shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u321	Don't make such a hint, first of all, about tiredness, etc. I made a specific suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u322	You did it. The Bureau has answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u323	The Bureau must be flexible.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u324	The decision was also unanimous in the Conference of Presidents. I am heard here by the Members who were here, but also unanimously, on the first day of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u325	Can we make it easier for you to erase yourselves and not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u326	No, those are your words. Anyone who wants to be deleted is in his gratitude. Anyone who wants to speak again is at their own discretion. The Bureau shall apply what was decided unanimously by the Conference of Presidents and unanimously accepted by the House, all the wings. Mr Arseni, you have the floor, but you have the request warm for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Congressmen, MPs, Mr Mitsotakis told us how he mediated to compensate the entrepreneurs for 2,000 euros. What Mr Mitsotakis hid is that on the same day he had another decision, the extension, the arrangement for the new extension of the contract for twenty-five years. It ruptured a crime so that they could move on to the next one, which was the most essential, so that they could start the competition for twenty-five years in the midst of all that Attica Road crime. And it is obviously reasonable to ask all of us what state we are when the Prime Minister speaks with the "ATTRIO" to solve, as he says, the rescue of the enclaves. That's the process. In what other country of the European Union does the Prime Minister have such contacts with a private company that finds it among themselves as to how people will be compensated instead of state lawyers and apply the contract? In what country in the world is something similar? Which country in the world? You must respond to what has already been said. Is that true? Is he a legal adviser to Mr. Mitsotakis the man who is now president of this company? He heard about it in the Chamber. He didn't answer. He has to answer. We need to be clear here. We cannot talk about the responsibilities of the "ATTIC DUTY" and agree the parties or not to regain it. It's the end of the contract. It's a chance to come back to the public. What party here is in favour of extending the contract for twenty-five years? Put the parties in public. We note in SYRIZA's motion of censure that the issue of privatisation is missing. We saw the crime on the Attica Road and what happened on the train, where the train that went to save the prisoners fell on their train and created an accident and people for so long stayed hit by the train without help. And when they finally got detached, they said: "Go wherever you want, you are free," as if they could go to their destination. Was it not that the trains and buses of TRAINOSE were taking the passengers and taking them to their destination at any time? What happened this time? Privatization took place. What we have experienced has a name 'privateisation'. At the same time as we experience the effects of privatisation, the government brings privatisations for the hospitals, to the peak of COVID and the pandemic, starting with the Pentelis Children, which has been excluded from snow for the first time on a newspaper. Petroleum's over. They put him oil a few hours before he finished and stopped on-calls to take it out of the system and privatize it, with Ms. Gaga meeting with the twelve New Democracy MPs on the plan to privatise hospitals. This is what you plan to expand when you see the destruction of privatisation. And privatization is a disaster, because you privatize monopolies on which the lives of people, our people, of all people depend. Because when you can't go to the hospital crisis, because the road is closed and you lose your life, then it's a life infrastructure? When you don't have power and you've got insulated in the house, in oxygen, it's a life infrastructure, PPC and the network. When in the private hospital costs 600 euros a blood test for a child and a chest X-ray for a child, the one who has money is saved and the other dies. It's all life-infrastructure. Obviously, we are in favour of mistrust. This government had to leave yesterday before it dissolved the concept of the public. However, I will also come back to SYRIZA because the motion of censure is missing the issue of privatisation. Since the end of 2015 you have given 67% of the Greek Port of Piraeus, the port of Piraeus, 68% of the Port of Thessaloniki, 66% of the IPSA - Natural Gas, TRAINOSE, compared with 45 million, the airport of Greece, compared with 92 euro square, 14 regional airports without having to make the contract insured, but by undertaking the State to compensate them whenever they have any foreclosures, which they themselves calculate on their own assessment. We are already losing at these airports EUR 100 million a year, plus the money we have given for the barren lines, and we have compensated them with EUR 178 million and I mean the New Democracy. Let me remind you that legal advisers, despite the SYRIZA Convention, told us that they could appeal and appeal to arbitration and New Democracy stopped it, and SYRIZA voted for the compensation that will come for this year as well. Along with the 300 million that we gave them with state guarantees, as you can see, we are already 'inside'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u328	Finish, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, I ask for little tolerance like all previous speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u330	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u331	As has been given by previous Presidencies, I ask for a double-minute tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u332	No, we'll keep the time. Close with your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u333	I shall conclude, Mr President. The problem at the moment has a name. It's the privatization. We call on the Government to stop privatization, and in particular its plans for health, the concessions of Attica and all its other plans, and finally SYRIZA to take a stand against privatisation. You're telling us that you saved the country because you brought the memos. You're telling us you had to. So now why don't you change your attitude? We tell you with heart pain really! Stop serving interests. Come back to the left side and the races. I know well that your Members do not agree with this party's attitude, but it must be transformed into politics. Stop serving the interests! For you I have nothing to say. You are the "Metsotakis S.A.".
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. I'm going to announce the follow-up colleagues to be programmed in time. The New Democracy MP, Mr Chryssomalis, will now be given the floor. Mr. Psychogios from SYRIZA will then speak, then Mr.Akupis from New Democracy, then Mr. Katrugalos from SYRIZA, Mr.Davakis from New Democracy, and immediately after the speech the Minister of Education Mr.Kerameos will take and will continue so that there can be a rotation of some MPs with some ministers, who are many more, because the time has escaped from programming. Hot request, you will have the warning at six minutes and will make sure you go to your last page to close at seven minutes. Mr. Chrysop, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. It should be done earlier, and they should be intervening with one another...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u336	You have thrown us in KINAL, Mr President. They keep talking New Democracy and SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u337	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Comrade. We're not going with the parties. Let's go with a number. I have put five colleagues, so it happened to be the turnout. You know that one of the smaller parties parliamentary force corresponds to a speaker in the dozen. Mr. Chryssol, you have the floor for seven minutes, please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing you are asking is why SYRIZA chose to exercise this right, which Parliament gives him, of the motion of censure. This is done in specific cases. There are two main reasons why this right is exercised. One is whether it considers, as the Rules of Procedure says, that parliamentary balances have changed within Parliament. I don't think he has any such appreciation. A month ago we voted for the budget, which shows that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group firmly supports the government. The second reason, under the Rules of Procedure, is whether it considers that the balances in society have changed in terms of the power of parliamentary parties. As far as the government is concerned, this does not seem to be the case, but it seems to be the case with CSR, and perhaps this is the reason, the real reason why the motion of censure is being proposed, and we want Mr Tsipras to prevent his plebiscite collapse and possibly the popular third position in which he seems to be going wholeheartedly. Ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity given is to listen to and say to the Members of this House some of the facts of this government in order for the Greek society to know about them. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a government that may have been in emergency situations for the first time, which were outside its pre-election programme. It must be the only government that has been found in a series of emergencies, which for the time being have lasted almost as long as it has been governed. We directly faced the asymmetrical invasion of illegal immigration into Evros, the pandemic that we have been facing two years and, of course, the multi-month Turkish challenges. We could very easily follow your own tactics, say we had a turn on our shift, say that they were not on our election agenda. We could well - you were shaking it back then - ask for a renewal of the people's mandate in June 2020, after the first lockdown, very easily. You did so in the first half of the year, because you knew that within a period of six months the Greek people did not just give the government its previous percentages and much more. Nevertheless, because we are a responsible force, a responsible party, we looked in the face of the Greek people and said to him: "We also assume the responsibilities of extraordinary events, their management and our election commitments, as you commanded us and we will not make any discounts from them". So we faced Evros with the situation, built the fence on our islands. How did we pick up Moria? How are reception centres today? We have faced the multi-month Turkish challenges by geopolitically upgrading the country with agreements that have never been made, with France, America, the AEZ with Egypt, with Israel, with cooperation. And we also face the pandemic, which I do not need to say much, there have been too many parliamentary debates about it. At the same time, we are also implementing our election commitments. That is why we have reduced insurance contributions, as promised, so we are reducing the taxation of natural persons and companies, which is why we are reducing bureaucracy, so we are reducing all these diseases that have been deterring to investors. And now we are an attractive investment destination, which means new jobs - this is due to the reduction of unemployment - and, secondly, it also means better paid jobs, so in the end it means that you have less than many to collect, and that is the reduction of taxation that we are achieving. Obviously, this simple chain of events on taxation and jobs is something that the Left will never understand, because it considers that the only investments are public investments and to achieve this, it increases taxation and ultimately increases unemployment, it breaks the middle-class order, as you and very outlines Mr Paulakis has said publicly. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why this motion of censure. For the pandemic, as you say - because it is one of the three reasons why you have done so - we have told them parliamentary in countless meetings. For price indexes - second reason for which you requested it - the same. Same as for bad weather. There could be a day-to-day debate and as many times as you want to ask questions that the Minister will come and explain everything to you. But I want here for the bad weather to highlight another point of our political perception, our own ethos and our own approach to things, because things have not gone well in this bad weather, especially with the Attica Road and other individual routes. We have asked for a sincere apology, not a pretext, and we know this and, Minister, you know it and you know it, I am sure: the citizens don't care who is responsible or what factors have been involved in closing the Attica road or other roads in the Levanopod and afflicting thousands of our fellow citizens. Citizens do not care about the procedures, the coordination, the radars or the inconsistency between public services and private companies. They care about the result, they care to be informed in good time, so that their lives are not compromised and they care to get help immediately if it is compromised. It's not time for us to pay tribute. I am sure that it will be done through the procedures, but it must be done. This government proves that it recognises its mistakes and is dealing with them and that is why the Greek people still trust it, because it knows that this government, yes, has done much and still the Greek people are asking for more. What for? Because she knows that she is the only one capable of carrying out the difficult reform work, things that have not been done for forty years in Reformation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chrysomalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u340	That's why he keeps asking for more, because he knows that from the opposition he doesn't expect anything. She was tested, failed, and she knows she's not capable of anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u342	To close, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u343	Yeah, hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u344	Waiting an hour and a half to get the floor when my turn came...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u345	That's all right, we're in the 'eight and something' number, and we need to get to 'two hundred and twenty'. Shut up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u346	To close, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u347	And don't delay a little, there may be colleagues who will be confined to five minutes. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u348	I'd be done, Mr. President. In closing, then, we all understood that once again Mr. Tsipras used the proposal of distrust, as he has done in the past, to resolve his own internal issues, firstly, competition with the Change Movement for who will be in second place...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u349	Mr. Chrysop, okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u350	Secondly, he actually made a motion of censure towards the fifty-three who questioned the new procedures he introduces into their party. It is a pity for Parliament to use its own internal matters! We will continue responsibly to deal with the problems of the Greek people and that is where we will be judged.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u351	Yes, for two minutes I say 'close!' And no one listens to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I did not see the ministers being so strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u353	Please, I don't want any comparisons, you'll tell me about both the Prime Minister and the Chief, I didn't expect that. That is why we need automatic closure of a microphone, as is the case in the European Parliament, not to become either bad or good. So now Mr Georgios Psychogios from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and say that we are not even in ninety and the Members who have been registered are two hundred and twenty. If you think it is very right at the end, that is to say, tomorrow after noon for the few hours that will be left, some Members will not talk at all or be confined to three or four minutes, then each of you will take more time and make the comparison made by Mr Chrysomalis on what has happened and what has not happened. I'm sorry. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a debate on the motion of censure on the New Democracy Government: a motion of censure which was much anticipated by Greek society, as much as you deny it, you want to create impressions, because we have our ears and our eyes open to those who have enormous problems today, the social majority. You are a government which has allergies to any public and social good, and you are saving the private one, which, as we have seen, failed to manage crises. You have abandoned the HSH, in favour of the clinical leaders, transport and transport services themselves, in energy with the sale of PPC at the most critical time, but also of the TEDO. Prepare yourself for the water, but don't go far, come for a walk to Corinth, see the Corinth Canal a year closed. And that's your respect for public property, public interest and employees. In fact, the Prime Minister visited her without knowing that she is closed. Of course, all these neoliberal beliefs collapse after one another as a paper tower and many countries return to public control. You've reached out to privatize the state. I listened to Mr Mitarakis this morning about organising his ministry with thousands of poster, and at the same time technical service director, poster, doing outsourcing technical services for studies with millions of euros, with millions of euros, with framework agreements from the state budget, with workshops from contractors and social workers, of course, with a story about the flows. He came here to tell us and compare in 2019 to 2021, that is, 2019 that New Democracy was also government, and that flows were made over your days and that demonstrates that the reason for the decline is mainly Turkey's pandemic and strategy that exploited the refugee indeed for its own reasons. But, if that is the reality and the flows are reduced - which are - you come to do the closed structures of thousands of people in the islands and in Evros, being willing to be the soul store and the shield of Europe on the Visecgrad line, spending millions of euros and, of course, mocking local societies in relation to what you promised. And all this is done with the protection and full immunity of the large media. The citizens themselves know and we know very well what would have happened if all this happened with a government in SYRIZA. You then proceeded to cannibalism, anthropophagia and unacceptable practices against the SYRIZA and our government and you say that you have done well. You know, that sounds creepy in our ears when in 2012-2014 the humanitarian crisis was shaking out and your numbers were prospering. Whack, what world and what reality do you live in? You're saying that we reproduce with logical and outdated concepts of the 1980s. Is the vaccination campaign that took place in Portugal with the municipalities, with the institutions and chambers at the base and achieved 95% is obsolete? The social state for all without discrimination and the benefits of general interest are obsolete? Is the inequality that has to be shredded and eliminated for you and is it legality in the law of the jungle and whoever survives, which you have been applying for two and a half years, obsolete? Of course, it is not only the refugees, migrants, vulnerable people and asylum seekers who are currently impoverished in the structures, and the conditions that you are saying have not improved and they do not receive the financial aid of Europe, since you must take citizenship and be Antetokubo, because 90% is excluded and people are being held for eighteen months without crime. All this, of course, has also been extended to the social majority. It's not just you who are invisible. Invisible are the people who are dying of bracelets and stoves, because they cannot warm up, unseen workers and their basic rights are the unseen ones who are being shut down, unseen teachers and students who are struggling alone to stand up. Even the second chance schools didn't even take self-tests. They're invisible! They are the citizens who have been locked up for hours in their cars and households who have no power, the residents who had their own fires, the seasonal firefighters who are also in your jurisdiction, Minister, and who were heroes in the summer and then didn't even see them in the Ministry, and they also suffered authoritarianism and violence from outside. Invisible are the sanitaries who have been left alone, invisible are the young people who are sneezing and targeted, fleeing outside the universities and see that they cannot set up their lives and have their own family, because the rents are in God and cannot cover them, but they are also those who go to universities without student care. Of course, there are the thousands of kids left out of the junior stations. And the list doesn't end! For all these reasons, you must leave quickly and become invisible to society and the country, but also for one more reason. Because you are exploring the country internationally through the leading international organisations for re-exports and disappearances. And don't talk about guarding borders, because it's challenging. Because the SYRIZA Government has done so with full respect for international law, the Law of the Sea and the officials of the Armed Forces. Of course, there are the persecutions of journalists for their research work, authoritarianism and repression and the university police that have emerged in international media and have been condemned by foreign universities. So you have to leave quickly, because there won't be anything left. You know, we're not like you who dreamed of destroying the country to become a government, and you did little politics, populism, and you poisoned the world. We are fighting in every way for society not to kneel in the House and with the solidarity movement to all without discrimination. This situation is not worthy of the Greek people who have passed their pandemics and conquests. That's what we tried to do as a government. We have reached it to a certain extent, we have protected the social majority and the next we will do it even better and stronger. So soon, then, you'll be in the past. The struggle of the left and progressive forces will be daily to rebuild the country and society, because you fear hope, as Hickmet said. You want the world compromised, impoverished, little, on the farm. However, this is not the fate of the Greek people and you can be sure that soon, which is cultivated every day, you will get the answer you need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time, Mr President. For seven minutes, Mr Dionysios Apipipe, the Member of the New Republic has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today on the motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA accuse the Government of New Democracy of mismanagement of crises. In an abstraction of his speech by Mr.Janakopoulos who recommended the motion of distrust on the first day yesterday, he said: "You are going to come to a progressive left government with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras". The question raised here is, but, well, where do you think you are? In 2014, when you slandered everyone and everything? For then you were present and said that you were the blameless, the clean, the non-corruptionist, who would come to smash the memorials with one word and one act. Unfortunately for you we are in 2022 and for your bad luck, yours and ours, you have ruled the country for four and a half years. From that we shall start, from having ruled this country for four and a half years! And the Greek people have knowledge, just as we do. So let's see how we run the big crises and because you did everything well, you want to come back. So let's get out of here and see who's coming? The progressive government with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. Not a reason, of course, for a SYRIZA government, because you know there's nothing wrong with you. Well, unstable politics. But you're learners, since you did the same in local government and left no power to the municipalities, because you didn't get the beans out there too. But let's see what SYRIZA has done with his ministers and with the Prime Minister in the respective crisis cases, to inspire the people as well how good you are and to remember you again. 15-11-2017 the water came. We had floods in Mandra with twenty-four dead and twenty-one injured, but also with destruction of thousands of properties. In 2014, Mrs. Durou said that I have had enough for six months to solve the flooding problems in the region. Development was a tragedy. The Prime Minister proclaimed mourning, and before you came to power you blamed the then regulator, Mr. Stroboot, for losing a person's life in Cameroon. You took over and lost fifteen people at the time. But why do I mention this? To see the difference we have with you. What did we do? After your meetings, you only managed to say that the situation is very difficult. That's where you ended up! For its part, the Opposition was mobilised by interventions, but it kept low tons against the government in the first hours of the tragedy. The President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis was found from the first hours at the scene of the drama and kept up to date. He stated that what is happening in Mandra is an unspeakable tragedy. "I express my deep grief for the disasters, losses of property and above all for the people who have been lost. The State must stand by the residents and provide them with all possible support as soon as possible." Look at our difference! See what we and our President were talking about and see what you did today! Then the snow came. Let's see if you did well here too, because none of the previous speakers mentioned it. On 8-1-2017 we had snow hostages for 10 hours in Corinth - Patras. In Crete there was no electricity, while there was a scream from Skopelos, because they were lost under the snow, the regional roads were closed and people could not go to the health centers in Skopelos. And most of all, you didn't apologise there either. On 22-12-2017 the snow hit Central Greece. Then the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Toskas, was in a relaxed mood. The National Road to Lamia was closed in 18th km, two trucks folded, and there were fifteen miles in the ground for eight hours. The snowfall has nothing to do with what happened the other day. Still, there was no apology! Then the fires came on 23-7-2018. And there, of course, it was recorded as the world’s deadliest fire in the 21st century. What did you do? Did you manage it, right? Of course not! Did you ask for apologies for the fact that a hundred two people were lost and a hundred forty-eight were injured? No way! However, we have not lied to you, as the Prime Minister has already said, about the fact that you have not succeeded, because everyone may not succeed. The worst thing is that you set up a communication show on the dead and then the Minister, Mr. Toskas, said: "I'm looking to find a mistake and I don't find it." For resignations, of course, then, no talk! Mr Janakopoulos and Mrs Xenonanakopoulou also told us that the people no longer trust us. Really, how does that work out for you? From the discussions you're having between you two, do you see that the people don't trust us? Can you tell us where you're supporting it? All polls show a double digit in our difference. You'll tell me you don't trust them. Good. Truly, is it so accurate that you induce it in your party, in your party or in a friendly form, to see what it says and present it to us? It will, of course, be very interesting. As long as it's not like that of the 'DOCUMENTO', it was an election unit that gave you a difference, and you finally lost ten! The question, of course, is why you have made the motion of censure. Do you think you'll be the first party? I don't think so. You're in danger, and it's certain that as long as the time goes, you'll be a third party. Do you think you'll rule better? Even your most fan doesn't believe it, since your president's popularity and ability is in Tartara. After all, let us say that Mr. Kontonis says to you: 'We have been disfellowshiping society'. So while you see all this, you are asking for elections. It reminded me of someone who drowns and seeks a lifeline. You're trying to save the worst. Your desperation led you here. In conclusion, we must admit the mistakes, the failures and the omissions that should be corrected. This government has shown its strength, political responsibility, honesty and openness to admit and learn from its mistakes. The Prime Minister's sincere "apologies" contrasts entirely with those who played the theatre at the time of the crises. We are not the ones who will do the same with interviews with the Jianakopoulos press and the SYRIZA ministers, who were supposedly showing signs of arsonists from satellites, deceiving the world. We're definitely not the same. We belong to two different worlds. The sure thing is that you need to change a lot, but I think it's too late because your political time is over and the firework is gone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u357	Thank you to Mr Klepsch and to Mr Klepsch for the consistency in time. We invite Mr. Katrugalo Georgios from SYRIZA to Stepma. Then, as has already been announced, Mr. Davakis will speak and then Minister Kerameos will speak. Beg for the seven-minute maintenance to all speakers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much, Mr President. The failure to manage the recent bad weather I think it does not need to be further discussed. It's not just that for the first time streets of the center were excluded and not just the Attica Street. The most important thing is that today there are still areas that do not have electrics or have difficulty in accessing them. And we're not just talking about Eastern Attica, or about mountain municipalities. I was speaking with a colleague of the New Democracy who described to me a similar situation about his own home that is within urban fabric, and indeed in one of the so-called "genuine municipalities". The main point, however, which justifies the motion of censure, is that this failure is not an isolated event in governmental events. It combines with a stagnant failure - in combination with European data - on the two other major fronts, pandemic and outrage of accuracy. In the pandemic, we are still constantly having a twice the number of deaths in relation to the population than the average of the European Union and in terms of accuracy, especially in the current, we were the most expensive country in December and November between the thirty-three countries, and the European Union, which are being evaluated on our continent. There is also a given process in which the New Democracy is trying to differentiate responsibilities and cast them somewhere else. The first is the usual attempt to transfer responsibility. It cannot be done in the event of a bad weather, to appeal to individual responsibility. We will see, however, then how the New Democracy - and we have seen it now - has tried to find someone else responsible from the start. At first they were the meteorologists. It was then the 'ATTIC LEI', not only for where it has serious responsibilities - which it has, and this is undeniable - but also for where responsibility is in the state, such as when the order for the interruption of traffic was given. Finally, she transferred responsibility to her mayors and the district mayor. This tactic of the New Democracy is what is called the Anglo-Saxon Whataboutism. When you can't disrespect your responsibilities for something else, do a conversation about something else. So we saw the invocation of Mandra or the tragedy in Matti retreat - and many times in the same homoclastic way - back invoking what happened these days, precisely why no convincing answers could be given. But since these were not enough, there is a third tactic of the New Democracy. It is the recourse to clean misinformation, often not just in the make news, but in the clean lie. I will set an example first of all from my own area of foreign policy, the area I have been serving lately, and then I will generalize it. I did not have the pleasure of listening to him, but I read in the announcement of his speech on the Foreign Ministry's website that the Deputy Minister to show the irresponsibility of our party, said that the party of Officerial Response has voted against all major national agreements, such as the expansion of territorial waters, the establishment of the EEZ with Italy, and the supply of the Raphala fighters. We have voted in favour of all these agreements. So the opposite is a clean and naked lie and I cannot use another milder name or designation, because obviously speaking of an object at the core of his ministry, he knew what the Deputy Minister said. If he didn't know, things are much worse for him. This is not once again an individual tactic or characteristic of the Deputy Minister. The New Democracy told us that the "ORUC REIS" "was the wind", that our sovereign rights in the Aegean are not being violated because "here is noise from the machines" and, unfortunately, the first to teach in this policy of disinformation and grey propaganda is the Prime Minister. When the Americans recently withdrew their support to EastMed, he said it's nothing serious. And even though the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs said surprisingly, we know that Mr Mitsotakis had actually consented to this when, for example, after the pressure of the 'ORUC REIS' he agreed to another route of Israeli gas than the one provided for by the agreement on EastMed or when recently, in October 2021, he consented to the removal from the practice of the joint meeting of the strategic dialogue between the United States and Greece of any reference there. And we have the worst of all the samples of Prime Minister's unequalness in the fact, in relation to the pandemic that originally made the unlikely statement that there is no difference between hospitalization within or outside intensive care units for the chances of its survival, to prove that it was in the knowledge of the report of his own advisers, Professor Tsiodra and Professor Lytra, who automatically said the opposite. So the reason why New Democracy insists on this kind of blackout is precisely because the reality does not suit it. Dear Mr Stylianides, that is precisely why I would be prepared to accept your argument about the lack of practice. However, the similar refusal of the government to make public the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Liquidology available, I think it justifies my claim that this is not for practical reasons, but precisely because the New Democracy Government wants to hide the truth from the Greek people where it is not in its interest. Let me welcome your argument that, in handling similar crises, it is good not to be kept practically, although I recall that the withdrawal of the New Republic of 2020 law on civil protection at the moment has left the scope of the relations between the parties involved uncharacterised, which requires firstly transparency and a record of the relevant views. But let me accept your argument in good faith. Let the minutes not be recorded. The result of the debate, what was decided, there is no reason not to record it. I think the only reason not to record is precisely that New Democracy's tendency to refuse, and indeed many times I grey propaganda and make news what is the truth. I shall conclude, Mr President. The political career of prime ministers, such as Mr Kurts, has ended for far less, Mr Johnson's career is at the edge of the razor. The reason why elections must be held and we have a new government is for political moral reasons too. Amoralism seriously harms democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u359	Finish, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u360	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's my last sentence. I therefore think that, for reasons of democracy and of political morality, it is necessary to have a new progressive government, which will give other examples in both the field of substance and politics, but also in the area of morals and behaviour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u361	Mr Davakis Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the letter signed by all Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the reason for tabling the motion of censure which we are debating today is that, within a time of successive crises, the government is considered to be ineffective and dangerous for the country. It is a permanent time-lag which this text repeats. If the Constitution in Article 84, which provides for the motion of censure, and the Rules of Parliament have made it conditional on it being presumed that the authors, the authors, who request it, have themselves managed a similar size of issues, problems, events, with success, I believe that it would be extremely difficult on the part of the opposition to proceed with this parliamentary procedure. My aim in this speech is not to talk about the past, although the toxic climate which is constantly repeated in this Chamber and which is responsible for the Radical Left is causing problems and I would say that the'legendary' period of 2015 - 2019 has remained an unforgettable people, as has also been decided in recent elections. My aim is to say two, three things because I and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group support this motion of censure, and that is why we also thank SYRIZA's colleagues who have created the conditions for a successful government work to date. Therefore, New Democracy's Opposition on the online platform gov.gr, which is now synonymous with citizens' consciousness with the modernization of the state, with the new era taking place within it, as in 2021, for example, over five hundred and seventy million digital transactions between the citizen and the state were carried out using more than a thousand and fifteen services of the platform. I say this - and we will keep saying this - because a new civil culture is now being created when the citizen is not forced to stand in line - Mr Pierracakis said quite rightly that he has escaped from some sixty stops in tail with what this means in pandemic periods if you like - and also with the new relationship that this application requires between the citizen and the state. This government has accepted a motion of censure because it has managed and managed as it manages the pandemic, when in this critical period with the hundreds of dead because of this tragic event that continues throughout the world. This government, with these mechanisms of old people if you want - it also showed up on the issue of extraordinary weather phenomena - is trying with dignity, with respect for the citizen, with respect for the health of the citizens, to resist and gives tangible results. The Opposition of the Government is ambiguous because it gave 43 billion, a social backing package within this neck, which found our place, unprecedented for Greek data. It is the opposition to the government because its social policy has led to an increase in the minimum wage. With the insurance reform, the law of Mr Katrugalos created huge problems for Greek insured persons, for pensioners who even today because of that they are waiting to get their pensions. The opposition of the New Democracy Government to the digital card of the worker, as Mr Hatzidakis said yesterday, will be an insurance policy for the Greek worker against the employer for his hours, services and work rights, and we must say that they are being persecuted on the part of these unconscious employers. It also accepts a motion of censure on the part of the Opposition on the serious work carried out in immigration policy, the serious work, the coherent, with a clear imprint on cultural policy - I see the Minister of Culture here - and I would like to congratulate her on the serious proposal to claim the Parthenon Marbles, which are now a matter for the United Kingdom and I think that we must stand up to that, and for all the things that constitute a serious cultural policy. It has also accepted a motion of censure by the Government of its policy on national defence, on its wide-ranging armaments programme, which makes our country undisputedly an important partner of the great powers of the West, a partner who is now moving towards a major restructuring of its entire arsenal. The Government's opposition to subsequent support contracts - the follow-up to support - for the Miraz. You blame the government for having the twenty-four Raphalls. You blame the government for the torpedoes and countermeasures for the submarine anaerobic propulsion. You are concerned about the anti-corruption war helicopters for the Belaras, for all that we are proud of today. I believe that if you were to ask your colleagues in the Committee on Equipment they would also tell you that, in their vote in favour, they also consent and support this vision of our independent armaments force which is now taking place. We do not want to remember what was happening on the Ministry of your partner Mr. Kammenos when even the announcement of Greek Kalashnikov was made in the Committee on Equipment. All of what I have said, together with many other things, which I do not have time to list, the overall picture of government policy, a policy which, in the midst of unprecedented difficulties, is progressing steadily. The Greek citizen, despite the failures, despite the justified wrath and all that formed last Monday's scene showing the pathogens that still exist in the state structures, sees that there is the intention as expressed by the Prime Minister's lips, these structures will change - and they will change - and move forward with steady steps. The light bulbs which the Opposition is trying to face up to the difficulties that may arise with reconstruction in the area of the left will not cause a problem for a government based on a party that is democratic, progressive and, above all, popular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u363	We shall now give the floor to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Kerameos, with the warm request and the Minister to observe the tenth. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking yourself as a Member of Parliament, as a member of the government, as a citizen of this country, because SYRIZA has decided to table a motion of censure against the government, especially at this particular juncture. Because he decided to make use of this extremely important mechanism of parliamentary control provided for by our Constitution at that time. The truth is that SYRIZA attempts to quote some reasons why he is doing so. So what does SYRIZA say? It tells us that it has tabled a motion of censure, because the government chooses not to take the necessary measures to strengthen the ERC. Is that really so? Is it or is it not true that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis more than doubled the beds in intensive care units? From five hundred and fifty seven we received, they have reached the thousands of three hundred. Is it or is it not true that we strengthened the ESS with another fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff? That private doctors were motivated to strengthen the health system and, where not sufficient, their services were imposed? The National Health System withstands and responds to the unprecedented health crisis our planet has been called upon to face. It is therefore clear that this is not why SYRIZA tabled a motion of censure. He then tells us that he tabled a motion of censure, because the government does not take steps to support society against the wave of accuracy. Is that possible? The Government of New Democracy has taken measures amounting to EUR 1.5 billion over the last five months to address the effects of the global energy crisis and the resulting price increases, support measures that also cover businesses. And all this in addition to the EUR 43 billion spent on dealing with the financial implications of the pandemic, on tax evasion, development policy, on supporting our weakest fellow citizens. Support total, which will continue for as long as needed. On the reverse what to learn about your works and days. For what lack of support, for what accuracy, are you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, who have set up an entire country in line with the banks for weeks for 60 euros? That's who you are, gentlemen of SYRIZA. That's exactly who you are. You will give us as a third reason for the motion of censure on the bad weather and the difficulties it has caused, forgeting that, as many times as a government have been called upon to face emergencies, the consequences have been tragic, with the loss of human life. We don't renounce our responsibilities, just like you do. In the unprecedented intensity of recent bad weather, coordination and effectiveness were not what should be done. We apologise to the citizens, the Minister is the first to honour him and the Prime Minister. We moved immediately to compensate for those who were afflicted on the Attica Street. We are adapting our plans so that there is better cooperation and more effective emergency response. The bar is high and society has high demands from us, whatever demands we will constantly try to meet, no matter how great the challenges we face. Nor, therefore, the recent bad weather and the enormous efforts of this Ministry, from the top to each executive, to all the bodies that have made a decisive contribution, is the real reason to table the motion of censure at this time. So what's the real reason? The polls show you falling. Your voters are flirting. You're in danger of finding a third party. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that a motion of censure has been tabled, not because it has a problem with society and the citizens, but because it has a problem with society and citizens. In political desperation you are trying to reverse reality. What you say about education is absolutely characteristic. You're falsifying the truth, you're destroying it, you're contradicting it. One example: Ten days ago, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you said that the reason why we open schools is because we do not have the possibility of televising. That's what you said. But come on, after all, telecommunications has been universally applied, and so you have been disproved in practice. But then you indulged us for implementing telematics. Illegality to all his majesty! It disturbs you that during the recent bad weather in those areas that could not be carried out by living schooling, the educational process operated with massive participation of the educational community and with a smooth and rapid transition from lifelong learning to distance learning. In the courses only yesterday, for example, on Friday, we had 98.4% education on closed sections, and we warmly thank the educational community for their consistency and adaptability. SYRIZA, in fact, added another inaccuracy to what he claims lately, that the Ministry of Education allegedly insisted, says, not to close schools on Monday and Tuesday. You should know that, gentlemen of SYRIZA, having been in the government: Local government is responsible for suspending schools in the event of bad weather. The Ministry of Education has said at the very beginning that it will expect the decisions of local government, that it is all ready for telematics and that this telematic education will be implemented where and whenever it is decided by local government that the lifelong operation of schools must be suspended, which has been done and well closed down our school and telematics has been applied. So SYRIZA, not everything. We open the schools, you want them closed. We close them, you want them open. Not in all other areas of educational work over the last two and a half years. Really, a motion of censure against the government, because, for example, it has applied two-year-old pre-school education? So, education from four to every municipality in the country? Because English was predicted in kindergarten from four? English for a hundred and fifty - five children of infanthood and childbirth. Why should only the private kindergarten students, as in your day, gentlemen of SYRIZA, do? Motion for distrust, in which we made sixteen thousand permanent appointments of teachers, the first few years after 12 years in general education and the first in the history of the country through ASP in special education and education? A motion of censure that we issued a hundred and sixty new curriculum in many cases after twenty years? Where have we doubled standards and experimental schools and made sure that they exist in every regional unit in the country? For the first time, after decades in the Greek educational system, an evaluation of 99.5% of schools is being carried out? Where, for the first time, 10 years later, do mass and substantial training take place? Already a hundred and twenty-five trainings have been completed in digital tools, new curriculum programs, English in kindergarten and so on. A motion of censure which our country has been preparing for the pandemic in education, while it was in the 20th second place in OECD countries, has it been in the sixth place in OECD countries? A motion of censure that we have provided EUR 140 million for the purchase of technology for five hundred and sixty thousand young people, between four and twenty-four years old? And for all our teachers, now, of public primary and secondary education. For our teachers, in fact, without economic criteria, without social criteria. For all the teachers in our public schools. Where did we upgrade the equipment of the school units with portable electronic devices? From four and a half thousand devices you delivered to us, we started supplying ninety thousand devices. Which on SYRIZA were registered on the Greek school network about ninety thousand students and which today is a million four hundred thousand? Where did we digitise services, such as school registration, placement of assistant teachers, awarding titles? All digital. Where is the results of the pan-Hellenic examinations now being sent with SMS? Where are we now linking vocational education and training to the real needs of the market? Proposal of censure we are going to go and see in each region what are the real needs of society, the economy, and are we taking this into account when providing skills in vocational education and training structures when we draw up curricula? Motion of censure which we have set up PSA and experimental and thematic IEK, which are modernising thirty-six vocational education programmes and a hundred thirty training guides? Where are we for the first time implementing a paid practice programme, which is fully modernising the equipment of all laboratory centres, a project of EUR 114 million, which we invest EUR 1.3 billion from the Recovery Fund in education? I shall conclude, Mr President. And in higher education, which, instead of arbitraryly deciding each minister, as was done on your day, on what money each university will receive, objective criteria and quality criteria have entered, rationalizing the process of introducing and studying at universities, which we are ensuring will lead to real prospects for our children, which we are looking for for the effective upgrading of our universities with increased funding, with greater flexibility for our universities, with more opportunities to draw up foreign language programmes, to establish partnerships with leading foreign universities that lead to more opportunities for our young and young people. Where did we establish a full framework for the operation of the technicians' companies, giving incentives and facilities to researchers, promoting the entrepreneurship of universities? Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is changing, improving, internationally conquering the place it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u367	And you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u368	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u369	Can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u370	This is the first time in 24 hours I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u371	There's a tactic and I'm not talking about you. It's none of your business, Mr. Chakaloto. It is followed by some or the Parliamentary Representatives that a regular, after each Minister or at least every minister chooses to intervene either with questions or with questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u372	That was decided by the Conference of Presidents, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u373	I'm not talking to you. It's not personal. I'm saying in general. Well, you all noticed today. We've witnessed this. So yesterday and obviously tomorrow will continue. But this is at the expense of time and Members of Parliament. It must be understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u374	It is something decided by the Conference of Presidents. We deserve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u375	I don't deprive you of your word. I'm explaining. And the explanation I give also includes the warm request that any of your positions and any question be briefly, comprehensively, and if the Minister or Minister considers it appropriate to respond, also quickly, to give the floor to Members. Well, Mr. Tsakalotos and Mrs. Giannakopoulou have asked for the floor. He's not asking anyone else. You have the floor, Mr Chakalote, for a minute, a warm plea.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u376	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u377	Tolerant, two.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u378	This is the first time I've ever done it. I haven't answered any other Minister. Madam Minister, I would first like to say that you have enjoyed me very much in this last 24 hours. For example, since this morning, everyone has been telling me I'm eighty years old. "Help the eighth man," they tell me at the office. You know why they say to me: 'Welcome the eighth.' Because the video you put says the arrest - listen, because rather these videos are for your voters, not for you - is not what you learned at school and in biology. The moment of arrest is when the mother decides she wants to have children. So they all think that my mother would want twenty years before she had kids, so I'm eighty years old. And I want to fight you - since I thank you for your contribution - for downloading this video, because really this video that you downloaded was a very big contribution to the sense of humor by the Greeks. So I compare it to Aristophane, I compare it to Shakespeare, I compare it to Fo. It was so fun and instead of believing and insisting on what you believe, what did you do? You've decided on seriousness. This video shows how important Facebook is in spite of all the problems it has and cannibalism many times, because if we hadn't had Facebook and hadn't come out that the Ministry of Education has such videos about prenatal prenatal treatment, Mrs. Kerameos as Minister we would have returned to the apron, Roc would have been banned that it is Satan's thing and we would have been back forty, fifty years ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u379	Good, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u380	Two minutes aren't over.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u381	I hadn't put time on you, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u382	So I'm in second minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u383	There's still time. Don't interrupt, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u384	It's not right what you're doing, though. It's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u385	What's not right? Isn't it right to admit I didn't give you time?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u386	I said two minutes and you said 'end' before two.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u387	But I'm self-criticizing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u388	You just want to ruin the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u389	I didn't put the two minutes you asked for. You were talking, and time didn't count, and I put you a minute. You've already spoken for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u390	Do you want to talk about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u391	Now we're gonna play? Go on, give Mrs Giannakopoulou the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u392	I'm not done. Well, reproach can't be on the video, though it could. On Facebook why are you called Minister for Trade and Private Colleges? Because that's what you've been serving for two and a half years. No other Minister for Education over the years could, with our differences, be called Minister for Trade and Private Colleges, because he did not do things like you, the first thing you did was cut the education of children from the PES at universities, which showed your class intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u394	The two-year programs at the university, didn't you cut them? How did you not cut them?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u395	Please! Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u396	I would like to ask the Minister a question to remind my previous colleague, Mr Davakis, that gov.gr was the work of the PASOK governments, namely the Government of George Papandreou, just to restore the truth in the Chamber. Minister, it is true that the Ministry of Education cannot stop plundering in mistakes, in sloppiness and anachronism. And all that happens at the expense of our children. And the last one, of course, was what happened today with the video on the Prenatal Education Program for high school students, which admittedly projected dark theories and perceptions. And under the pressure and reflexes of society, we have had to retire. I wonder and ask you the question, Minister, and I ask a question to a woman who certainly has an increased sensitivity: when we live in a period of intense, very intense concern about racial violence, feliness and rape, how is this all compatible? How is this video compatible that you had approved to go to high school? So how did he get that approval? How do you see your responsibility, Mrs. Kerameau? We're asking for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u397	He also asked for the floor, and Mr Pafilis, the Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u398	Yeah, about the same thing. It is not a question of the sense of humor, of course. It is very serious, it is very serious, because you are running a video with medieval and non-scientific perceptions. And for the people watching us, what the video says in summary, and I'll just say, that everything is inherited from DNA, everything. There is no social society, there is no education within society, that everything comes from - and the behavior and everything - from DNA, and even the aftermath is that it says that when parents are read - that is what it says, if you want me to read it to you - when parents are wise and so the children come out. What does that mean exactly? How is it possible in 2022 that the Ministry of Education other than - these are other things - to circulate a video of student education, that you are born - why does it say - to be either illiterate or late, that you are born to be workers, that you are born to be these and not to be able to change your life? Really, how do you explain this thing? Give an explanation. Did you miss it? How did you miss it? No one has any brains there to say that this is medieval logic? And then you're talking about the invaders, so I can relate it to you? Answer me and tell us. Is that the discipline you give students?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u399	The Minister has the floor. Please, as soon as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, Mr President, and thank my fellow Members very much. I'm on my way. Three remarks have been made. The first is about the marketing that Mr Tsakalotos says, the second about the PES and the third about the particular case that has become public today. Firstly, as far as trade is concerned. Mr. Tsakalotos, it really wants you to talk about college marketing for the first time when graduates of colleges were allowed to enter the public service for the first time. I was here to bring you back, Mr. Chakaloto, a stack of ministerial decisions...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u401	The same arguments again! Why do you say the same thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u402	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u403	I have not interrupted, Mr President. I mean Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u404	You don't think anyone listens to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Chaakalato,
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u406	He's been through it so many times! But you don't care about the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u407	All right, let the Minister answer as she thinks. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u408	So the truth is that I came here with a stack with decisions of all the ministries. And by magic when was that possibility withdrawn? In May 2019, two months before the election! We've done it all four and a half years and two months before the election to show one person that we've been fighting colleges. That was the first answer, Mr Chakaloto. Second answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u409	Answer that we've relapsed you too many times! The same lies again?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u410	Please, Mr. Chakaloto! Calm down on the ministerial benches too!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u411	First let me tell you something? I heard you without any interruption. Respect within Parliament requires that we listen to our colleagues. I'm also your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u412	But you're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Chaakalot, please. Let her answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u414	I heard you carefully. Please listen to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u415	After you've said it and been disproved!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u416	Haven't you? You have put it, you have asked me. If you don't want answers, don't ask. I have to reply to the national Parliament. The second point concerns the ESDP. Mr Tsakalotos, I think you're due to an apology to all these kids that you fooled, who let them register at grades 0.6 to 20, for giving them fruitfruits hopes to get votes. What did we do? We went out and said we were going to upgrade vocational training. How? We're the first ones to make professional high school standards. We are the first to go and find out what the needs of children are, what the needs of society are, what society needs in every region of Greece. Why? To have our children's studies a reflection, not votes for SYRIZA, but a reflection, a future, a prospect. Thirdly, it concerns the debate today. Here I am addressing all three. As you know, I have intervened precisely in order for the approval given by the Institute for Education Policy for this programme to be revoked. And it was very nicely revoked. To have one picture, such programmes are approved over three hundred per year. These are off schedule. They're parallel actions. It's possible that a teacher can have. He's out. So within three hundred, this was approved and it was withdrawn when it was actually found that it should not have been granted. Just stuff! Be careful, however, is done outside the mandatory timetable. What's going on inside? Because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is the first to establish within the mandatory schedule a complete horizontal sexual education programme. What did you do? One topic week, you care about me. We normally put it on the mandatory schedule from primary and high school. This was the real treatment of this government on this very sensitive issue, which you quite rightly say, Mrs Giannakopoulou, I am also very concerned about. And that's why our government took the initiative to put it into the mandatory timetable. And one last word, Mr Chakaloto, about this company. Look at what disbursements you've made for this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u417	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Pulas Andreas has the floor from the Change Movement. Mr. Kouroublis, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Xanthos, and then Minister Georgiadis will be followed. Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u418	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you must have realised that the patience of citizens towards your Government has been exhausted. It was buried in the snow of bad weather, the blocked roads of the capital, the tails of thousands of vehicles in Attica Road, the holidays of rheumatism in entire districts, the unorganized municipalities and the lost adversary salt of the region. In short, no hope for the citizens, the enclaved drivers, the citizens who have left without power and without the opportunity to buy the necessary days, while the public on your command had downloaded the rolls. Your final state has sunk sharply in bad weather, while the building of the Ministry of Civil Protection has been violently shattered. After the fiasco of the management of recent bad weather, your reaction is the operation "transfer responsibility", such as the pandemic where to excitement the incidents and deaths are all to blame but you. In the two years that the health crisis lasts, we are not tired of a change of opinion to ask you to support effectively the National Health System which has been solely responsible for the health management of an unprecedented public health situation. All hospitals and all the structures of the ERC are on alert and alert for their complete function in dealing with the coronary with health workers exhausted mentally and physically exterior and with clinical modifications to CIVID at the expense of other diseases and by conversion of the ERC into a monothematic. You only found a dry thank you and some crumbs, without any response to their chronic demands, such as their integration into heavy and unhealthy and the brave increase in their wages. We have asked and asked for recruitment of permanent staff and you are renewing subsidiary contracts. We have asked for transparency and you have made the supplies permanent, notwithstanding the existing provisions. We asked for a permanent increase in the IF beds, and you invoke a pragmatic figure that does not respond to reality. We were asking for the reconstruction of primary health care as an impediment to the suffocation of hospitals and you still bring to Parliament a bill of advancement for organising primary health care. Over the past five months, we have been in the first place in the European Union because of COVID mortality as a result of the major disparities between hospitals in the centre and the region, the lack of skilled personnel, the lack of equipment and infrastructure and, above all, the lack of political interest and adequate funding for hospitals. Your only concern is that the private sector does not lose its profitability. With regard to the vaccination programme, you have been late, you have been soaring, you have given doubtful messages through your ministers and your decisions. You have worked on the scientists in the Committee of Experts of the EGE and you have invented the invention of individual responsibility while you, for yourself, reserve the absolute irresponsibility of your choices. And in the global energy crisis that followed the health crisis, you are viewers, thinking that by feeding discounts you will get a little more tolerant time. PPC, which has devoured consumers with fire bills due to the launch of KWh’s wholesale price, has not produced a serious and reliable program to modernise its infrastructure, resulting in any flooding, in every snowy way, in any fire, to keep entire settlements without current even many days, while not ensuring the country’s liberation to become smoothly, coordinatedly and without excessively burdening consumers. For two and a half years you have been ruling you have abandoned the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is the backbone of the Greek economy. All your legislative initiatives are directed towards supporting economic strengths to make them even stronger. At the moment, inflation is at 5.1%, and citizens' incomes have fallen by the highest in the Europe of twenty-seven, so that we are a country that is disproportionately accurate in terms of purchasing power and with the highest direct and indirect taxation, but benefits to the citizen of zero. Not to say about the national strategic plan, for the new CFP 2023-2027, which you submitted to Brussels days ago and caused a massive number of reactions both in the agri-food sector, as it leaves open issues maturely to close and close trivial issues without offering a solution, conserving the adequate pathogens in the agricultural sector and serving micro-party purposes, rather than providing a serious national agricultural planning, directions and solutions. What measures must be taken specifically for the organisation, financial support and the exit into the international markets of the olive grower, the wine grower, the farmer, the beekeeper, the fisherman, the grape grower, the cotton grower? The large increases in electricity, oil, gas, fertilizers, pesticides and feed are literally burning the agricultural world, which is now unable to meet its obligations. What do you have to say to the Argolida farmers, who, although prepared for the recent frost, were betrayed by the PPC network? It collapsed, resulting in unprotected crops being found unprotected and irreparablely affected by the frost. Gentlemen of the government, Argola's farmers were completely destroyed, as were other producers. You saw the TV on Marathon for the fruit and vegetables. What is the schedule for assessing the losses and their compensation? I hope they don't stay in the talk again. In conclusion, Mr Ministers, it is now clear throughout society that in all the crises you have managed the results have been tragic. Lack of organisation, lack of coordination, lack of consistency and, above all, lack of social consciousness, because the focus of your policy is not the citizen, but the interests. You have not yet realized that the privatizations you are evangelizing everywhere are doomed to fail. You have not realised that the crises require a strong public sector, which is the only one that can respond reliably, provided that you modernise it. The Change Movement, as a political expression of the weak citizen, the small and medium-sized entrepreneur, the affected farmer from the end of the country, cannot consent to a policy that reverses society and that is why we are voting against you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u419	We will give the floor now to the Independent Member, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important matter. It is an initiative concerning the constitutional right of counter-population, a very important issue which the government is unfortunately attempting, immersed in the logic of self-admiration, complacency and the beauty of everything, to deceive. I shall begin, Minister for Civil Protection, with an observation. You insist and say that yes, practically no such meetings are held. This was done in Brussels, and we know very well what the negotiations on the vaccines have resulted. However, if you want to pass this experience on to us here, I would like to ask you this: at such a critical meeting where individuals are involved, how reliable is it that we do not have to do so? It's a question. The second question I would like to ask is this. I heard the Prime Minister. I have very big questions if the Prime Minister of the country can call a company and say "give her EUR 2 000". This is what is happening in Uzumpouri, not in a European country, but anyway, Mitsotakis is that. I would therefore like to ask the following question: the two thousand who are concerned? The vehicle or the people in it? Who's troubled? The vehicle? Because I have heard from the Prime Minister, Minister, say about the vehicle. Was the vehicle afflicted or did people? It is also a question. Ladies and gentlemen, those ministers who came up and spoke out of this Step really expressed, as I collected it, their question why the Qualified Opposition was understood to make use of such a prerogative that the Constitution gives it and to ask the House for a debate on a vote of censure. It is so self-satisfactory that they consider that what is going to be discussed is of minor importance, so that it is not worth the trouble finally to discuss them. Ladies and gentlemen, over twenty-two - twenty-three thousand people died, and most of them, of the data coming out every day, have been wrongly lost, because it is the result of your ideas that you have on a public health system. It is timely that the right attitude towards the National Health System is not present. It's a logic that leaves the system in his luck. I heard the Minister. But how misinformation you possess, considering you're talking to tumors! He did get contracted, some contractors, a few thousand. Has he got a permanent staff? Where? Tell us, give us the notice.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u421	Don't interrupt, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u422	Submission of the notice. Don't give up on that. You talk to people who know what they're saying. Submit the contract notice! Did you get people in primary health care? For nine-ten months you have been proclaiming some contractors' posts and you haven't taken them yet. You've taken the doctors from the primary school, and you've taken them to the vaccination centers. Shouldn't we talk? Should we not discuss, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not the people who die every day, a hundred and ten people, from this attitude to you? Because if you had hired, after the first phase of the pandemic, permanent doctors and nurses and had made them a rapid training, we would have much less loss incidents. And it's not just them. We are only talking about the people of COVID. We are not talking about people who have lost their lives, as deaths have increased by 20% from other diseases, which people cannot monitor their health issues, because most clinics have been closed down. What can I tell you? The drama of the uninsured, we mustn't talk about? The most vulnerable groups you're sending them to prescribe to hospitals, where the risk and chances of sticking COVID are greater? Climb to this unacceptable and inhumane behaviour are the kidney patients under dialysis. Read, ladies and gentlemen, the complaints of the associations, the despair of people's protests. At least take it back. Do you know that people are going with COVID bleeding and doing haemodialysis in units without being checked? Go out and disprove me. I now ask you to deny me that what I'm saying is a lie, I'm a slander. You don't dare. Ladies and gentlemen, is it not crucial to talk about what the Greek people are suffering, in fact? We have told you that there are EUR 3 billion that the budget will get from the special tax this year because of the increase in oil and gas. Of this you can spend some money reducing VAT to twenty basic consumption products, because you have again proved inconsistent - I do not want to say a lot of talk - when you electionfully told the Greek people that you would double the minimum wage twice as much as what would be the rate of growth. This year was 8%. How much did you raise the minimum wage? You raised him 2%. They are therefore matters to which you must answer. And, of course, this pandemic, Minister, was not a lack of means. The treatment of this pandemic specifically was not a lack of means, it was a lack of coordination. The right one didn't know what the left one was posing. You didn't know what anyone was doing. You were trying to drop it on Patolis. Patolis says "I closed the schools, why didn't you shut down the public?" That is what we are paying today, this lack of coordination. But I will say one more thing and I will close, Mr President. What did this pandemic show up? It has demonstrated two dividing lines, those who believe in key players in the state that must be in public character, such as the National Health System, which is declining, in which you made seven and a half thousand doctors because of their refusal. I do not support their view that there should be any misunderstandings. I've been vaccinated, I've made the third vaccine, I have no idea of that kind. You took them off because they have a choice. But you didn't replace them. Secondly, since you did not replace them, for eighteen months these people have served the National Health System. And thieves if they were, bribes being in jail, they'd get half the wage. This is inhumane for a democracy to treat people of the health system in this way. Or bring them back, make them do rapid test every day and offer services because they need the system, it has been declining both from retirement and from fatigue. And of course, Mr President, let us finally talk at this place about primary health care and, above all, primary health care in the community. Because this pandemic may sometime stop, but they won't stop coming and coming back and pandemics and epidemics. So to support the National Health System, because it proved to be a necessary prerequisite for this place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u424	Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u425	Mr. Theochari, what exactly do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I had no intention of intervening, but I have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u427	No, I'm sorry, because you said the right, half a minute before I gave you the reason why I'm not gonna give you a chance to know. Yesterday at the beginning of the sitting we unanimously accepted the suggestion made by the President of Parliament who opened the procedure himself. We have all agreed that the parliamentary representatives have the possibility of three interventions every day. Yes or no? To be informed. Good. The New Democracy today four interventions, SYRIZA four interventions. The other parties have fewer. So you are not entitled, Mr Theocharis, unless it is so urgent, a major issue has arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u428	When we hear about killers again, I have an institutional obligation to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u429	Warm request for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, just for a minute. I'm sensitive, too. I am from 9.15 a.m. in the morning, and I am entitled as a parliamentarian. I say, therefore, that it is not possible, when the government has done everything in this pandemic, to hear again those misery which have been heard and which have even led to the exit from the Parliamentary Group of Mr Kurubl. It is regrettable that it continues in this rhetoric, which the party itself did not tolerate. I hope this misery will finally end.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u431	Mr Dionysios Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u432	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the proposal for distrust of the Officerial Response to the Government, a proposal I must admit that it does not surprise us, because we are well aware that the only way to pursue a policy for SYRIZA is for tactics and communication tactics. In this effort, however, as has been the case in recent times, opposition is exclusively alone, as society no longer listens to it, nor is it fascinated by popular movements of impression. Initially, as far as the issue of bad weather is concerned, to be clear and serious, the current government knows how to look at the problems, it knows how to deal with them and, where appropriate, it has the courage to recognise the failures and correct them. First, the Prime Minister and the Minister, and today they apologied for the people who were afflicted in snow and immediately initiated the procedures so that those who suffered damages would be compensated and accounted for. After all, we must not forget that by the law of this government, the provision for compensation has been added to concessions, contrary to Mr Tsipras's period of governance, which was not in front of the great tragedy in Matti, one of the then government was not found to apologise for tragic and fatal errors, but what you had to say was that no matter how much you were looking to find the big mistakes that led to the tragedy, you did not find them. That's exactly our big difference. We're dealing with reality. We are dealing with our mistakes, we blame where it is necessary, while you in the critical hours of destruction have created a virtual reality to cover your disastrous inability. I'm sorry. I repeat a question we heard before. Why such disobedience for the Attica Street? Is something wrong? And what we heard today, I guess, I don't call it speechless. But let's stay in that characterisation. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling on the Members to vote in favour of or vote against the motion for distrust and, obviously, I am voting against it and obviously support the New Democracy Government, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, reading this text of your proposal, I conclude that what they refer to it belongs only to the fantasy world of SYRIZA and is in complete disparity with the sense of society and the citizens. We understand that recent polls cause you stress. We realise that your only consistent political choice is the exploitation of crises and the policy of tension. We understand your enormous embarrassment about the limited resonance of your political ideas in society. But even today, two and a half years after the 2019 elections and the complete disapproval of your policies by Greek citizens to make your self-criticism and finally pass into the sphere of political responsibility and national responsibility, you choose to table a motion of censure to a government that has brought significant results to the economy by achieving dynamic growth rates, turning the recession because of a pandemic of the '20s into a recovery of '21, leading to strong growth in 1922. You blame a government that supported workers, professionals, unemployed, farmers, businesses with a social package of 43.3 billion euros over the period '20-22' and at the same time reduced taxes and social security contributions. You are making a proposal of distrust to a government that has been vigorously and decisively confronted with immigration by the effective response of the crisis in Evros and the transformation of the issue from a Greek problem to a problem throughout Europe. I guess I forgot. Obviously you preferred to play the wheelchairs, as you did in 2015. You appealed to a government that faced Turkey's aggression both in the business field for two and a half months and in the diplomatic field, which brought important agreements with France, the United States, Italy, Egypt, to strengthen the equipment of the country with new freshmen and new warplanes. You put forward a motion of censure claiming that the government did not support the National Health System and is not effectively confronting the pandemic, while more than 12 000 recruitments of subsidiary and permanent staff have been carried out and are planned within 2022 five thousand permanent recruitments of doctors and nurses and has more than doubled the number of ICUs. Haven't you heard that doctors are being proclaimed and there aren't any? Haven't you heard that the list of nurses TSE and IP has been exhausted? Aren't we strengthening the health system? And in fact, you are criticising the moment you close your eye to the anti-vaccinators where everywhere in the world it is a common assumption that the only solution in the pandemic is vaccination and when Greece created one of the best vaccination programs and has taken measures to make vaccinations more compulsory in professional categories and ages earlier than other countries. And of course in this part you were absent. You voted against them. I forgot. You have some Members who disagree with the effectiveness of the vaccines. You call on the Mitsotakis Government to promote all the major infrastructure projects needed by the country, which also faces the energy crisis by supporting households, businesses and farmers. There are 400 million in January and so much in February. The last quarter of 2021 has already been allocated 700 million. Really, do you still find sense in your political movement? Ladies and gentlemen, all I support for the work of the Government can prove them using examples of my own constituency, Pella, where major projects take their way, such as the Thessaloniki-Yannitsa-Edessa road, which is expected to be auctioned in the first half of the year, such as the Almopeaus Dam, where the studies were completed, the studies were received and they joined the PPP projects of the Ministry of Rural Development, such as the Judiciary Edessa, where the tragic choices of your government have been corrected and are now on its way. And, of course, there are also policies for the effective support of farmers in order to identify the consequences of last year's ice-cream with advance payments and compensation at 100% of the insured value and for payment at the same time of the loss of 100%, not as was the case for four and a half years of your own government, where you were paying in three instalments in eighteen months. And finally, there are decisions to strengthen these projects with more than 80 million projects. For all these reasons, we support the vote in a government that draws up its own path by following a policy based on an organised plan and an integrated strategy, a government that knows and wants to take the country forward and, above all, has a way of doing so. I support a government that plans, plans and implements by setting as its primary objective the well-being of citizens without exceptions, and that is a step by step by step by step by shifting the production model, the transformation of the economy and the reform of Greece as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u433	We thank Mr. Stamenidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u434	Please, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u435	No, Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u436	I would like the floor on personal grounds. There was an intervention by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u437	What are you claiming to be on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u438	I was mentioned by Mr. Theocharis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u439	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, I made a documentary placement. Anyone who has a different view, a serious view, and is not a clown can come out and disprove me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u441	The characterizations, Mr. Kurubli...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u442	I challenged him to disprove me. That's what I'm saying. A Member can't go out and report...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u443	Mr Kourublis, please request that the word 'Charakiozis' be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u444	If there's anything different, I'm a liar?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u445	Did you hear me? If you don't want to hear, I'll interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u446	If what I said was false, Mr. Theocharis would come out and tell me I'm a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u447	Your Bureau is addressing you and asks you to withdraw, delete the word spoken by you just now. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u448	What I'm saying, Mr. President. They cannot behave as MPs in this way. I spoke in a very modest way. I didn't touch anyone. I spoke with evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u449	So let it stay in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u450	Anyone who has something different to go out and say: Mr Kurubli, what you say is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u451	Good. Mr. Andreas Xanthos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, SYRIZA in a way that is well-situated because he is at risk of being threatened by KINAL made the motion of censure without being socially grounded for displeasure and protest, without there being any people who are irritating and outraged with governmental events, without a crisis in the government's political management on the major issues: pandemic, in fact, and, of course, at this time in the management of bad weather. Do you have any reality or not? Who are you talking to? With the pollsters, journalists and analysts, with the Golden Boys and the Entrepreneurs and Bankers? Do you have any contact with people every day? Are you in contact with people who are being weighed, financially burdened, troubled, who feels insecurity, who loses people, relatives, and also from the pandemic, but also from non-COVID morbidity, because the health system is unable to respond? Do you have a picture? We are listening to this candy with the thousands of recruitments, both double and triple - you have lost the account - of intensive care units. Do you have a picture of exactly what's going on in hospitals today? Has any of you gone to talk to not the commanders you've put in, but the people on the front line? Do you know that today in hospitals, ten thousand fewer people are serving, why are they out of retirement, why are they on parole, why are they in quarantine and why are doctors at this time retiring from the health system because they are unable to withstand? Do you have a picture of the quality standards in the health system and of the staffing of CIVID clinicals in all critical rings from emergency departments, clinical infections and ICUs? Do you have a picture of the reality of our country, or do you come here smugly and arrogantly and tell us everything's going well? And you think this does not give rise to a crisis of political legitimacy. You're out of reality. Failure in overall management is undeniable. There's the hardest sign of failure. It's mortality, it's deaths per million people. We are the first country at this time in Western Europe. Only some Balkan countries have a better place than us. It's a health tragedy in progress with a hundred dead people every day and over two and a half thousand dead only in January. And you come here and give us up for irresponsibility, both for populism and hypocrisy? Do you really care about the situation in the health system, about how people are not served, about the staff playing it, about the fact that people have Burn out in the critical sections, about the fact that the ESS has now ceased to be attractive to young doctors? Do you really have any care for public care? Have you done anything important to reverse this image? You're telling us again about the ICUs. Ethics obviously increased around the world at this time. And in the Third World countries, the ICUs increased. It's a bit of a feat. For the rest of the critical links in the management of the pandemic that determine the outcome of the battle, do you have anything to say? Do you have anything to say about the epidemiological surveillance that is inadequate? You've taken her from the Department of Health. Epidemiological surveillance at this time is making Maximos, devaluing both EACH and the Ministry of Health. Do you have anything to say about inadequate pre-medical management? For the home surveillance deficit, as has all the serious European countries done? For the post-medical care, for the non Covid etc., you have done nothing. Public health services have not been supported in any way. And of course, you don't do all of this because you're bad people or because you don't have sensual sensations on a personal level. We don't blame you for that. Your Government is doing it because, ladies and gentlemen, you are neoliberal. You don't believe in the public health system. You don't believe in the social state. You don't believe in state intervention in the market. You do not believe in the need to reduce inequalities. This is the crucial issue with pandemic, the global explosion of inequality. There is a new term in political and scientific dialogue: Congress. The pandemic goes along with disparities in economic and social life, poor people are poor and this wants policies of equality, social justice and redistribution, that is, left and progressive policies. That's why you can't be effective. And of course there is a combination of neoliberal idealism and influence of interest. At all levels we see that. And so very many of your options are explained, such as the non-support of the health system, the non-active involvement of the private sector, the non-prescription and compensation of the tests, etc. I think that, in fact, at this critical and central moment for society and for the country, the motion of censure comes in line with a climate of growing discontent and political legitimacy and gives a democratic way to this crisis of political representation which begins and is visible. You're socially and politically isolated in here tonight. I think, therefore, that what really comes as an urgent need today is to remove the climate of declining public confidence towards the state of the institutions and the government. This is the social climate and it triggers even irrational behaviors and unscientific and darkening in a part of society. So I think, and I close, that we do not deserve as a society and as a country, as Alexis Tsipras said, a moral and political decline of this kind. The way out is a new progressive majority that will set other priorities based on society's needs, collective goods, the public health system, the social state and the dignity of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u453	I will give the floor to the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Adoni Georgiadis. After the Minister, the following speakers will be followed: Mrs Anna Mani-Papadiriou, Mr Stoltides, Mr Lambropoulos, Mr Vitsas, and then Ms Mendonis Minister for Culture and Sport. Minister, I am making a very warm request for time. As we are hunting - to say this - the MPs and the ministers must show the same measure. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u454	I'll try. Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I heard Mr Xanthos earlier with his impulse on the need for the government to leave and achieve this great parliamentary battle of the SYRIZA with the motion of censure, with four SYRIZA Members present in the process at this time. Well, you don't call it a terrible battle to fall, to be honest, nor is it a reflection of any terrible climate against the government. And because I think that in SYRIZA you are really out of reality - that is what I think is your big problem, that you have no contact with what is really happening in the world - I will tell you that just yesterday the European Commission published the economic climate indicator throughout the European Union. For those who did not notice, Greece has been at the highest index of economic confidence that has been found since December 2000. Twenty-two years ago, that is, just before we entered the euro and with the expectation of society that our economic fate is changing by entering the Eurozone, Greece had reached the climate of economic confidence presented yesterday by the European Commission for Greece. Now you say, Mr Xanthi, that the European Commission is on the Peica list to come to an understanding! Before I say anything else, I'll talk to you on a personal note. It is not personal, but it is clear because I speak after Mr Blonde and it is good that I come to the Step after the one who spoke about the need to restore confidence in democracy, in institutions, in the state. And I speak as a former Minister of Health to a former Minister of Health and a protagonist then of all this 'NOVARTIS'. On Monday, ladies and gentlemen, as you certainly read, the financial prosecutor, the prosecutor of Economic Crime, decided to issue an archiving act of all the charges that you said against me in the case of "NOVARTIS" and which, about five years ago, I had to tolerate SYRIZA MPs on the channels saying: "The person controlled for "NOVARTIS" Georgiadis", as the Member then of SYRIZA, who had predicted in November 2018 that by 20 November - he said at the time "KONTRA" - I will have been imprisoned. I read to you, Mr Xanthi, and I speak personally to get the floor personally after your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u455	Mr Georgiadis, please do not personally address Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u456	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u457	Why shouldn't I interrupt you? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u458	Don't interrupt me again, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u459	There's a procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u460	Because this is very serious for the institutions!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u461	The Bureau asks you not to address Members personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u462	It is much more important what I say now than what you say. Well, I read from the archiving act, Mr. Xanthi: "Except for the above-mentioned evidence the behaviour of the former Minister of Health Adoni Georgiadis as a whole, as well as in any case, does not show a bribed person who has come into secret consultation with the company's "NOVARTIS". Below: ‘In addition, as regards the fulfilment of the requirements of ‘NOVARTIS’ by the State and the EEAS, it cannot in any event be judged to be privileged. On behalf of Adoni Georgiadis, the plan of payments was followed as it had been budgeted." Below: "The protected witness is claiming to have been handed over to Adoni Georgiadis the glossy sum of 2 million euros to satisfy the company "NOVARTIS", but this cannot withstand any criticism. The person attempting to bribe - says the Advocate-General - and disbursing a huge sum of money, budgets benefits if not multiples, at least directly depending on the amount disbursed. The benefits may also refer to losses of competing companies. With the actions of Adoni Georgiadis, the competitive company 'ROCHE' has maintained the prerogative of precedent for payments and 79% of its debt has been covered as against only 58% of the company allegedly bribing 'NOVARTIS'. Adonis Georgiadis certainly did not act as bribes as he did nothing for the benefit of that company." Below it says of a law that we voted on which really harmed the pharmaceutical industries. And he writes: "By further seeking the person who has acted in this way, who has basically affected the interests of pharmaceutical companies, we can see", writes Mr Vitsa, the Advocate General, "that you signed and tabled the amendment other than the one controlled for Adonai Georgiades bribery. This is where there is an impenetrable logical barrier. Any attempt to link a corruption act to this action is directly conflicting with logic. In any case, Adonis Georgiadis or if he has been bribed, is a person of characteristic deafness who does not understand what he is doing and why he does it or is an inferior bribe." And the act of archives is closed, Mr. Chakalote. ‘Adoni Georgiadis' actions, therefore, not only, cannot be seen as an imprint of the favourable treatment of the company ‘NOVARTIS’, but on the contrary, a direct infringement of its interests.’ I put it to the Minutes of the House, ladies and gentlemen. After five years of mud, slander, and attempted by my political and physical extermination by SYRIZA, will one of you have the reason to apologize for being cut off by democracy and the institutions, with these disgraceful things you have done here, Mr Vitsa? You're a kind man, but you didn't either stand up to what was set up in this House by Mr. Papagelopoulos and others. They did what they did and after the archives act came out on Monday now, ladies and gentlemen, one of them, one of them had the face to say 'Hey, guys, we were overdoing it'! Not one. They are supposed to be cut for human rights, they are supposed to have humanism that we do not have, they are supposed to be the honest, the integers who tolerated the slander, who collaborated in the slander, because you, Mr. Xanthi, as my successor to the Ministry, know very well whether my policy had benefited "NOVARTIS" or not, but you silenced to do the grace of Paul, Papagelopoulos and Vaxvanis, and that I do not forgive you. For you to know, as far as what this House has lived five years ago, with the setting up of these ten votes against people for whom all of them were archived - only Loverdos was found by means of a prosecution now decided by the Council of Elections and his final discharge, according to the questioner's proposal - you did not have the face to say an apology after all of this. Shame on you! You're talking about democracy and you have the stature to look us in the eye after what we've lived! And I come a little, ladies and gentlemen, to the motion of censure. I'll talk about everything that's coming up. SYRIZA gave us the opportunity to say what each minister has done in his term of office for three years. You know in my ministry, me and Mr. Nikos Papathanases and Mr. Skylakakis, of course, we have a fate and misfortune. We are ministries, whose results are perfectly measurable. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. This is not about theory, whether anyone likes me or not, whether or not he likes my voice, if she's a prick, if she's annoyed because I was selling books. This is about whether the country goes better or worse. So let's go and see all the areas of responsibility that I had in charge of following the mandate of the Prime Minister. One area of responsibility for the ESDP. We received it in position 19. I am presenting today's tables for the Minutes of Parliament, as they were printed before I came to Parliament, with a date today from the official page of the European Commission. In the Regional Development Fund, the first country to be absorbed in Greece, since the nineteenth, first. In the Social Fund - which you were supposed to be the party of humanity and social inequalities - we were in position twenty-one. Now with us unscrupulous neoliberals we are also the first in all its European programmes. So take it to know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, when you decide to give us a vote of confidence, what exactly you are voting on. Example two. We have the Development Bank in our responsibility. Let's go see the multitude of approved loans at the Development Bank. SYRIZA period 2015 - 2019, five thousand six hundred six hundred six loans. 2020 - 2021 and half 2019, thirty-five thousand nine hundred ninety-two. Take the difference. In sums? Of the 280 million at 9 billion. To understand the difference, what entered the real economy from our own governance and what entered from SYRIZA period. What's wrong with what I'm showing you? When Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Tsipras, lucky, good luck, because the story from above will see us and laugh, he came here and said "we put forward a motion of censure for the worst government of all time". I have heard it in this House say to George Papandreou "You are the worst government of all time". I have heard it in this House say to Antonis Samaras "You are the worst government of all time". He came to Mitsotakis yesterday saying "You are the worst government of all time". Well, let's once decide what the worst government is, not to fight with each other! But while he said so, a few meters further to the Maximos Mansion, Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis met with the world's greatest banker, Mr Diamond of JP MORGAN, who decided to bring to the Greek economy $1,1 billion dollars, to build the first Greek unicorn, as it is called in the language of the economy, the first Greek start up with a value of over $1 billion, the "VIVA WALLET", and a law that this government has passed on the stock options to allow the workers of the company, half of whom have come with Brain gain over the last two years from abroad in Greece, 50 million dollars. And while JP MORGAN gave a vote of confidence in the Greek economy, Tsipras tabled a motion of censure on the Attica Road, he also said about snow and was not ashamed. So let's go see what this government has done. First in development in the Eurozone in the third quarter of 2021. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Mr. Chakatte, to make a prediction now, or will you take the floor later? Mr Tsipras told the PPC that Greece is the last in development throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u463	Minister, will you finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u464	I'll be in three minutes. Do you insist, Mr. Chakaloto, on this prediction? Your Chief of the PPC before the Greek people said "We are the last in development throughout the European Union". Is Chaakalot gonna make the same statement as soon as I get off the Step? Because in a few days, the official evidence comes out. Do you want me to make my prediction? We will be in the first four in the development of the whole of the European Union. Do you know how much we were at SYRIZA? All the last years, stuck, no lasting ones. I say this to understand what the difference is, what the worst is and what the best government is. I'm telling some stories quick to remember. ‘PITSOS’. Do you know why I'm filing it? I received a company that, under the agreement of SYRIZA - the socially sensitive we neoliberals have signed with the Germans - that all employees of PITSOS should be fired and that the factory should be closed. So take it. In the week the motion of censure was tabled for the worst government of all times, the company "PITSOS" with the new leadership of "PYRAMIS" began to function again and the workers were re-entered. These are workers you've fired. Let's go down. “AMAZON”, launches television productions in Greece. Athens, the world's Data Center. You know that "MICROSOFT" has requested its inclusion in strategic investments to become the three major Data Centers. In a LNG hub, Greece is transformed with the two major investments in the LNG. Funding record for research and development in 2020. Let's go down there, just so people can remember. In the five largest investment countries, EBRD in Greece. Greece in 2021 at five first throughout Europe. The first permits to establish and operate in Corfu, Paxon, were made. The same thing has happened in the Aegean Sea. Within 2022 we'll have the first seaplanes flying in Greece. Increase of 18.4% of building permits in October. And I'm just closing up because I don't want her to look like I'm going to get past her and tell me I'm forgetting the hard stuff. First of all, for the record, at what time do we live, because I listen to the truth: I said high forty years for inflation in the United States 7% in December. Since the 1970s the United States has seen the inflation of December. Currently published by the newspaper "Brussels Times": Due to the great increase in fuel inflation in Belgium in January 2022 is their biggest inflation - listen to what year! - since 1951! Take that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u465	Minister, please, come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u466	In other words, be careful: We act as a government in the worst inflation cycle since 1951. What did we do? In 2021, Mr. Chakaloto, Greece closes with inflation of 1.2%. You're calling us here and saying we're doing nothing. Do you know when we had 1.2%? Did you remember the number? In 2017. I am tabling a text from Mr Tsakalotou about 1.2%, same inflation as in 2021, which explains that the sharp increase in the level of oil prices and the structure of the global energy market did not allow much intervention to avoid the increase in the SYRIZA government. And listen to the best thing now: This, Teddy, you'll like it! When international oil prices rose in 2017, do you know what they did to excise duty? Here's Mr. Chakalotos to disprove me. You know what they did? They've raised him! Now we are told ‘Why do you not reduce excise duty on fuel, because there is inflation?’ And in 2017, Mr. Tsakalotos - who looks at his cell phone - increased him, while inflation was up. Just to understand. And I'm closing. I heard a colleague back - probably from the Change Movement - saying "the income of Greek citizens has fallen". Nah, you think so? So take from ELSTAT: Increase of 6.2% of Greek citizens' available income in the third quarter. Do you know how much it is to increase it from the third quarter of 2019, before the pandemic? It's 8.8%. Do you know how much private deposits increased in December? EUR 4.3 billion increased, private deposits, not business. Take the papers and the papers. As I said before, this is the economic climate indicator published by the European Commission yesterday, Greece at the highest point. Mr. Xanthi, Mr. Chakaloto, really, how do you interpret it? Since everything is black and we are the worst government in all times, how is it, former Finance Minister, to have the highest and best economic climate indicator since December 2000? Are we magicians?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u467	Please complete, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u468	Have we paid the European Commission too? And I'm closing. "FITCH": It upgraded the prospects of Greece's benefactor in positive from stable, "DELPHIC STROTEGIES": Forecasting-Surprise, 8% growth in 2022. And most importantly from the JRC, which I consider to be most reliable: the forecast for 2022 is 5.2%. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are not theories, they are not because someone likes us or dislikes us, they are what is actually happening in our country. And you know why SYRIZA has this image? Do you know why it's always ten and twelve units behind Mitsotakis? Because they haven't understood anything about what's going on in Greece. You come here with what I have shown you, which is not one of the Greek newspapers, it is only from international means, from the European Commission alone, from the Bank of Greece, only from ELSTAT and you tell us "the worst government of all time" and you present them all black and triumphant.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u469	Minister, good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u470	Of course, there have also been errors, no doubt, and yes, we have asked and apologise for what happened on the Attica Road, it should not have happened, but I'm sorry, do you know any country on the planet where the Security opposition has made a suggestion of distrust why a snow road closed? Can you show me another one on this planet? Yeah, it's bad that he's closed, we're sorry about these people who closed up and we're embarrassed that they're so upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u471	Minister, please too, last warning!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u472	But is that why there should be national elections in Greece? So be serious, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and I expect you, Mr President, to see if one of them - one of them! - will have the stature to take the floor and apologise for what I have been wasted for five years, accusing me of being bribed after such a triumphant event for myself. And thank you very much for the Greek justice that stood up to the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u473	So we continue the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u474	Mr President, Mr Tasoula's rules are not only for Members and parliamentary representatives, but they are also for ministers!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u475	I can't hear what you're saying. I can't hear you. You want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u476	Mr Tasoula's rules are not only for Members and parliamentary representatives, they are also for ministers, but the ministers will speak as much as they want!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u477	Listen: You were present.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u478	Support to the ministers is complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u479	So what? I made four, five times call for the Minister to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u480	You personally interrupted me many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u481	Oh, now, don't take it personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u482	How can I not take it personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u483	However, I did not see the corresponding reaction - not from you - shown by some Members when other Members of Parliament or Members of Parliament exceed time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u484	There is still full support for the ministers. No, I want you to know that I think you fully support the Ministerial Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u485	If we don't waste time, would you like to make some intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u486	No, I want you to know that I think you fully support the Ministerial Council, that's what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u487	All right, so let's go on with the speaker list. Next speaker... But nothing's recorded. I'm telling you, do you want the floor? Because your name has been heard many times. Mr. Chaakalot, please. I address you with the question - please, Mr Barkas, calm down! - because Mr Georgiadis has referred to your name many times. I had to do it. All right, let's move on to the speaker list. After all, there are several Members and even ministers, of course, who should speak. Mrs Anna Mani-Papatiriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a little more than a year ago and while the President of SYRIZA is faced with political deadlock, with the internal party opposition and with the polls, he chooses to resort for the second time during this parliamentary term to the last instrument of parliamentary control, to put forward a motion of censure. A move of desperation that bears witness to the evil position of SYRIZA, as despite the catastrophe in which they invest every day, they further collapse the consciousness of Greek citizens. The motion of censure lacks the slightest trace of truth, it is absolutely unfounded and aims solely at micro-political purposes, without benefiting the Greek people. So SYRIZA claims that the government is supposedly unable to support society and the income of citizens. SYRIZA colleagues, stop deceiving, stop lying! It is the Government of New Democracy which has supported the middle class and weak strata since the beginning of the country's governance, and has relieved citizens of high tax and insurance burdens. It is the one that, during the pandemic, managed to keep society and the economy standing, moving to measures that surpassed EUR 43 billion in support of households and businesses. It is the one that has reduced HPAI, which has reduced taxation on natural persons and businesses, which has reduced insurance contributions, the one which has abolished the Parental Benefit Tax up to EUR 800,000, but also the special contribution of solidarity - and very importantly - the trade charge for our farmers. It is the government that has managed to increase investment and exports and to upgrade our country from international rating agencies. Most importantly, the successful economic policy is evidenced by the vote of confidence displayed by global colostrums, such as MICROSOFT, AMAZON, PFIZER, CISCO, JP MORGAN, all that the Minister for Development has just mentioned and many others that invest in our country, creating many well-paid jobs. And all this, in the midst of an unprecedented pandemic that has solved the economies of even very powerful states. Speaking about the economy that, as a government, cost the Greek citizen no more than any other, which increased the debt by 100 billion euros, which succumbed to the public property for ninety years, closed banks and imposed capital controls, and this alone constitutes a tragic irony and high hypocrisy. SYRIZA colleagues, you ruled, judged, failed. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure also refers to the management of recent bad weather, even talking about decommissioning responsibility on the part of the government. The truth, however, is that none of the government disputed that there were mistakes and failures, and first of all, the Prime Minister himself, who himself called for sincere apologies from our fellow citizens who were afflicted. This is the first time that a government has expressed its public apologies, which you have never done. That is where our difference lies. After all, the last people who are entitled to speak are those who have political responsibility for the tragedies in Matti and Mandra, of course, who have never taken responsibility for them. From there on, whatever responsibilities for the situation from the recent bad weather will clearly be sought and attributed, as the Prime Minister has said. And of course this government has shown that it has the courage to learn from its mistakes and to constantly improve. As far as the issue of pandemic is concerned, while throughout Europe the parties of the opposition officer supported governments in their management and treatment, SYRIZA is also the only sad exception and voted against almost all legislative initiatives by the government. No substantial contribution from the Qualified Opposition to the huge effort the government has been making for two years to protect the lives of our fellow citizens while at the same time keeping society and the economy upright. However, ladies and gentlemen, what consensus are we talking about when you voted against the extension of the twelve nautical miles, the Greek-French agreement, the reduction of insurance contributions, and when your opposition ostrich voted against even the stricter penalties for rape? Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's motion of censure, which lacks all equitableness and truth, will be banned on a solemn basis. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis united and will continue to carry out its reform work, which Greek citizens have trusted and still trusted her. Despite all the odd difficulties and the objective difficulties that exist in society, Greece is changing, improving and becoming stronger than ever at all levels with the national defence of the country, continuously strengthening armaments, but also at diplomatic level, with major public projects taking place and with significant investments to create new jobs, with the Recovery Fund creating a strong outlook for the economy, with the digital state in the service of the citizen, with the support of the primary sector, producers and the Greek region, and with tourism growing even more and, until now, to show that our country will also be taking the lead in the next summer. All of this is an extremely optimistic picture for Greece. It is the Greece of tomorrow, Greece that envisions the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. For this Greece we will continue to fight every day and this government we continue to support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, my fellow Member, for the consistency in time. The next speaker is Mr Leonidas Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr President. This three-day you all perform, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and KINAL, as well as the rest, the second crucial task set you by the bourgeoisie, business groups, domestic and international. The first task you accomplished and do as governments in full, complementing each other and turning pensions, wages, the National Health System, schools and universities, transport, telecommunications, energy, mountains, beaches, ports, everything into profit for a handful of parasites in the economy. The second task is to do it, as it is now, on the occasion of bad weather, but also in other times of crisis, such as fires, floods and earthquakes. In other words, you must do so at a time when reality is stripped and it cannot hide that despite the incredible profits of a handful of business groups, neither does it nor the state give a penny of sacks for the health, safety and life of our people. Then, you all run immediately to lift dust and overthrow the real cause. You give tests to the bourgeois class about who can save her better and turn away the look of the people over her. And you do this in many forms, such as taking it upon you with the "apologies", throwing it into consultation, personalising responsibilities, throwing it into incompetence and wrong responsibilities. In fact, if necessary, you also do a committee of inquiry, make use of scapegoats. Of all the things the batches have, just as long as the real guilty man doesn't get intimidated, the profit. Is there any possibility of absolute security on the Attica Road, as in another way, on the national roads, in urban areas? There is. Where is he? EUR 3 billion of the group's revenues that manages it. Who went there those billions? All of you. Is there a solution to prevent fires? There is. The Forest Service asked you for 17 million for the prevention work, and you only gave 1.7 million. Half of Greece burned. However, you in the New Democracy chose to give EUR 40 million to the national road management groups as compensation, because people did not pass the tolls for them. Is it possible to solve with doctors, nurses and infrastructure the question of ensuring the health and life of our people from pandemic and from all other diseases? There is. Where is he? In the pockets that you have all done, in the pockets of the “korks” of health that the funds and pockets of the biopallas who give private health what they have to save. Is there a way for anti-military works, so that whole areas are not drowned with any tiny breeze? There is. Where is he? In the millions that you have been in the pockets of business groups, such as air transport, where all of you have led the hundreds of millions of euros. Is there a way to eliminate energy poverty and the accuracy of products that have broken the people's family? There is. Where is he? In the country's rich energy sources, the zero environmental footprint using the new technologies. Instead, you all agree to drive tens of billions of euros from the bloody taxation of our people into energy groups, to build the RES at no cost, and then suck the people's income at the cost of energy and products. These are what you want to hide with the dust you have lifted for two days, and you will continue tomorrow, because some are licking and repatriating, when we all know that the rule is to privatize businesses, roads, ports when profits are inconceivable and to privatize, when the people want to pay for the broken, renovation and upgrades. In other words, as a state, the people pay something that will disguise them as private. There, however, where your identity breaks bones is the collapse of labour and trade rights. There your state forgets all its weaknesses, there is direct and relentless. All of you hands were relentless. We remind you that they work in fire and embraced all of you, and the New Democracy, and KINAAL, and SYRIZA in the workplaces with a gun the "Hajidakis ecstasy" for the crumbling of the average wage and for the complete dismantling of collective labour contracts. Do how you fight for the minimum wage level when you agree to be with a government decision tied to economic and competition resistance and not to class struggle product. With'so I want', your state imposes, on behalf of all employers, hunger wages, without fixed daily working time, without holidays. With'so I want' the state, all of you, with the savage repression, wants to impose the minimum wage on workers in the Kavala Petroleum who are courageously resisting. Incidentally, did the capitalists build their state? Could they, without their state being imposed on workers? We all know that very well. Not a minute! But neither can workers, as the workers' struggles at 'e-FOD', 'COSCO', 'LARCO', in Kavala Petroleum. So this state, you all claim here, giving examinations yesterday, today and tomorrow to the chapter on who will trust it. That trust in capital will always have it. As for the other worker, you know that and you are trying to remove it, but it has an end date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u491	Thank you, Mr Stoltides, and the consistency in time. And now we invite Mr. Ioannis Lambropoulos from the New Democracy to Step. As has already been announced, then Mr. Vitsats follows, and then Minister Mendoni. Here, Mr. Lambropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the recent bad weather, the Chief of Staff Representation, Mr. Tsipras, has tabled a motion of censure against the government. Although he knows the government's majority is ill. He proceeded to this in order for him to come out of his opposition deadlocks, to rally, to retain his leaks to KINAL, and above all to fear of an apparent fall in the third place. Recently he also called for elections for the pandemic, for accuracy and now for bad weather. Citizens know, remember, compare and account for what would have happened in the country during the pandemic with the government of SYRIZA and the Minister of Health Mr Polakis and his theories. Over the past few days, Attica, which has not known snowfall, has lived the largest snowfall in the past decades. It is admitted by many that extreme weather phenomena are not being dealt with effectively either by the most powerful and organised states in the world. And snow streets are closing everywhere, and electricity is cut and flooding is done. The four and a half years of coexistence of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos also occurred extreme weather phenomena with dozens of dead in Matti and Mandra Attica and thousands of snow excluded in Athens-Lamia. So, today, Mr Tsipras should, instead of breaking his clothes, instead of asking for elections and for the resignation of the government, remember the handling of the crises in his day, the human lives that have been lost and be constructive. They convince society that tomorrow they can give a good government that will make it perfect? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, after two and a half years, SYRIZA loses from New Democracy with a bigger difference than the one he lost in 2019. We were all bitter, we were sad, because our fellow citizens were troubled because they failed to respond properly to the recent great and instant snow storm of competent bodies, services, self-government, DEDDIE, "ATIC LEVEL", "TRAINOSE", but also the citizens who led to snow without chains. Extreme times we've had, we've got and we'll have more. What is important now is that all parties, with a team of experts and experts in crisis operations, should sit on a table at the initiative of the government, so that we can organise our civil protection by copying and organised states. The treatment of extreme weather events must be integrated into school education and the municipalities must assume their responsibilities and obligations, because few people have responded to these difficult days. Ladies and gentlemen, the government since its election was called upon to face and manage crises as much as any post-Migration. He has successfully faced, compared to powerful states, despite your own undermining, pandemic and economic problems that followed and is currently facing imported accuracy following increases in international oil and gas prices. He has successfully organized the vaccination of the population. It has dealt with migration and the challenge to Evros with absolute success. He managed with coolness, wisdom and determination the provocative actions of Turkey in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean. He concluded alliances and signed military agreements with France, the USA, Israel, Egypt, Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, with you voting against. He adjusted the marine economic zones with Italy and Egypt. It upgraded Greece's geostrategic role and became a factor of stability in the wider region. It strengthens the Armed Forces with modern weapons systems and builds a strong deterrent force to defend our peace and territorial integrity. He re-examined the country's credibility and gained the trust of the foreign economic operator. It attracts foreign investments and is borrowed at historically low interest rates. It has achieved an increase in GDP of 7% and reduces taxes and insurance contributions. Go ahead and move on to reforms. Modify the public quickly. All this changes Greece and highlights it in a modern country that offers opportunities for growth and investment. This is what the citizens want. This course is approved by the Greek people. After all, all polls show it and the polls will confirm it when the time comes. Wait a minute, Mr. President. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, you've ruled four and a half years. You've been tested. You failed and you were defeated in the elections. You who have promised the lenders for ninety years all of the public property, you who have cut the ESS from the poor and low pensioners, you who indiscriminately cut pensions, you who risked, as you said, with Turkey and left the Armed Forces without spare parts, you who consciously dismantled the middle class, you who exaggerated all Greeks today cannot be believed. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u493	Please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u494	From now on, your struggle and your stress will be to maintain second place. Refusal, rejection, undermining, opposition screams and extreme political behaviors are practices of other times. Our people today want unity, joint effort, positive opposition, fruitful proposals, dialogue, consensus. The place, the economy, the problems, the pandemic, the Greek-Turkish do not now allow elections. The country needs a peaceful political climate, confidence and political stability. However, the only thing that Greece does not need today is political fanaticism and division, because the times are difficult and nationally dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u495	I want to talk to you a little bit about time and about whoever is delaying. You should know that my last colleague will talk about 3:00 in the morning. Evaluate it yourself. Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. Each time it is confirmed that we have two completely different ideologies, two completely different policies. It is also confirmed that we live in two different worlds, completely different worlds. So there is no one's consent to each other. Let's be clear. And I want to tell you this: yes, court rulings are respected. They are respected, even when the judge who took over her is demolished. Even when the judiciary did not accept the evidence from the Americans, judicial decisions are respected. Even if witnesses were given to publicity, judicial decisions are respected. It's called the Constitution. But should we agree that there is a NOVARTIS scandal? Or is there no NOVARTIS scandal? Shall we agree that this scandal has become your own governance period? Do I have the right to judge that there is little political responsibility and covertness in this scandal? What do you think? So you're doing a show here? And I will tell you, Mr Georgiadis: it is not your high voice, it is not your explosive taperato - many have of it - it is what you say. And it's said the Minister who kicked out the doctors from Greece. He says he doesn't understand it. You also did very well and took the floor at only twelve minutes and said what you said about the ESDP and so on. What did you forget? You forgot that the debt has risen to 426 billion. You have forgotten that you have taken the FBI with a positive balance, and at the moment it is less than EUR 800 million. You forgot that the EEA with a positive balance, and that is 1 billion. You forgot that public hospitals are currently owed EUR 750 million. You forgot you gave Piraeus Bank 400 million. You forgot that in TEPIX I and TEPIX II 50% were given to six business families. You forgot the current had increased by 170%. You forgot that on December 1, 2017, it fell snow in Athens and even very snow. This thing that happened - and I'm really surprised, I'm left with the question, because you have to make an effort to achieve it - has not happened. You know - and I'm going to say it as stylishly as I can - that the day before yesterday at a military airport and a heliport could not be approached - so the shifts stay three times? Of course you do. Besides, the debate between Alexis Tsipras and the Prime Minister made it very clear that there was no access to the General Aviation Hospital that day because he is in Katechaki. There's a complaint that they carried an officer from the street into a blanket to put her in. The motion of censure has not only been made for bad weather. Don't try to put that on. It has already been done, because your Minister has not objected to SMS, in which he says that the case of businessman, journalist - I do not know what to call it - will be settled on the next legislative initiative immediately. Is this thing done? And this gentleman is still Minister. Even Kurts didn't accept that thing for himself. You know we're two completely different worlds. And I told you that you did well and spoke at about twelve or four, so that enough people would have gone to bed and not listen to what you say and say, 'I live this?' 'I have the best economic climate in Europe?'. "I get so much money?" That's the point. You know what else I'm sorry about? You are putting officials in the ministry and the only thing they are dealing with is for the government to do opposition to the opposition and first and foremost to SYRIZA. That's a big problem. You know, Tsipras in the budgetary debate said that in Greece there is a social deadlock - you do not see it, we see this and it is our right - and because there is a social dead end, we say we solve the thing as it is in the republics, we go to elections. And what did you tell us then? That it's populism to ask for elections in the pandemic and that we ask for elections because of the popular rise of the Change Movement. Isn't that what you told us? Isn't that what you're telling us now? I would understand you saying then and now that'see that we do not want to hold elections, we will finish the four-year period', but only these positions show how badly social you are. And if you're sure - every time you talk about polling - so much about your superiority, behold Rhodes, behold, and fuck! There's going to be elections sometime. If the elections take place in July of 2023, then we will be in charge of four years. If you do it before the election, what are you gonna say? What are you going to say, Mr. Dogakakis, Mr. Papathanassis, Mrs. Mendoni, Mr. Georgiadis? Let's not catch the back row. What are you gonna say? That now he needs this thing. Look, it's a shame to celebrate that Greece is going so well. I understand you. You are a government, you will say that "we are making efforts" and one and the other. But it's a shame to think... Outside to ask simple people. At the same time that one of the issues we have raised is the question of pandemic management. Oh, God, I mean! Mrs Gaga comes out the other day - she is not here, because I did not want to say so by name - and she says 'in three weeks the pandemic ends'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Vice President, time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u498	Yeah, okay, I need one more minute. The three weeks have passed and we have a hundred dead a day. I don't put my chips on the dead, alas! I'm so sorry that they're dead. Do you not see any responsibility for your own in the way you operated the National Health System, for having twice as much as the European Union average? Isn't that right? Look, don't even fly for the bad weather. Today we have seen it. Mr. Stylianides' 'ATTRIBUTION'. Mr. Stylianides to Mr. Patolis. Mr Patulis says 'I will not be the victim of me'.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u500	Let us look for the way in which civil protection is organised. It's not Mr. Stylianides, I'd say something very specific to notice it, because all the governments have been hit on it for that reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u501	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u502	One last sentence. Look, we don't bet on disaster. We are preparing for what a progressive government will have to do and will have a lot to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u503	Prepare yourself. You want a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u504	Now that's a tiny predicament of the worst kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u506	If you want to give up your kindergarten, you're right. But if you think it's a political scarf, here we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u507	Mr Colleague, please very much. We've reached eleven minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u508	It couldn't have been a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u509	I did not see you protest when Mr Georgiadis - and, in my opinion, quite rightly - lasted twice as much time. Well, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Here we are, we're going to elections, remember me. We'll go to elections and remember that. You will see that you will be punished by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u510	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Vitsa, you are really very sympathetic to me as a human and you are very noble, but today I have to say that you have been very negative to me. I asked whether a SYRIZA apologise for the personalized charges from your party in multiple press releases from your colleagues, from former Ministers of Ministers of yours to SYRIZA, who nominally accused me of being bribed by the company "NOVATIS" and now came to the decision of Greek justice that said what I said before. And you went up and said, "Respect the decisions of justice, but...". If you want to have a talk about the NOVARTIS scandal, very gladly. The biggest of recent years do you know what it is? That when the corruption prosecutor, Mrs. Tulupaki, lost the years to hunt us, did not exercise persecution against doctors, and now for most of them, possible offences have been dropped. That's the biggest. And so the Greek state cannot claim compensation from them. But this will be judged by the Greek justice that is now investigating it. I asked you something else and I say it by name to take the floor. The fact that you called me a thief, sir, will you apologise? Does one of you have the courage to stand up and ask for ‘I'm sorry, Mr. Georgiades’? That's what I asked you to do. And you, who are always a noble man, talked about sorcery. Let me see your cheek now, Mr. Vitch!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u512	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u513	Mr. Vitsa, let me give you the floor, but I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u514	For less than ten seconds. Listen, Mr Georgiadis, to say the figs and boats: we believe that you have a political responsibility as a government and you yourself as Minister of Health for the NOVARTIS scandal, as a minimum we consider it. So you're gonna wait too long to apologize. We won't give you that joy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u515	You called me a thief for the bribe! Aren't you ashamed? And we had you for a noble man. Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u516	Show me you're not gonna do.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u517	No need for a show, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u518	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. It's already too late. And so we delay the next one. Mrs Mendoni has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u519	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, SYRIZA decided the day before yesterday, without concedingly to surprise itself, when they devoured the strong weather phenomena, which have shown pathogens for decades, to rally their forces. He sought to limit the centrifuge tendencies of his voters in 2019, to blur the image of his great inner-party problems, to plunder the climate and to oppose by pressing on the known practices of the past, when he was again a captive opposition. He forgets, however, a key alert of the time with today, that they took about five years of his own government service, his own governance. He ruled, tested, judged, failed. However, he continues his practices, because they only know. So SYRIZA, who seems to be unconsciously ignoring the phrase “project to deal with problems and crises”, takes away his social sensitivity to self-determining himself as a unique socially sensitive body in that country. It obliges the government for impoverishment in trying to exploit bad weather and bad management of problems from the state mechanism. It obliges the government for strategic inability to manage crises and pandemics and for socially outdated policies. Who? SYRIZA, who has agreed that during his government term of office he ignored basic governance rules, both domestic and European. SYRIZA, who with communal artifacts tried to hide, as if he could eventually hide the hundred in Matty. SYRIZA, who was confined to the confession that “the turn occurred on his shift,” is calling upon this government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who has proved that he knows and acknowledges its mistakes, is taught in the matter, to correct failures and omissions, and, ultimately, not to hesitate to apologise and even at the highest possible level. We are obviously talking about a dimension of political ethos and a sense of responsibility. In the twenty-four of the thirty months of the rule of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the government has successfully faced serious high-risk crises, such as Evros and the Aegean. Most importantly, however, it has been called upon to face the global pandemic crisis, which has changed the daily lives of citizens throughout the world for two years. Dedicated opposition to the government is required for unsuccessful neoliberal policies that have brought society to a dead end and for strategic failure in the management of the pandemic. It attempts, in other words, to devaluate with non-essential proposals and verbal krone, with unauthorised exploitation of the victims - yet another global originality of the SYRIZA - to invest in the victims to restore them to the government - the success of national vaccination, the multiplication of the MSF and the strengthening of the ESS. It attempts with a continuous word repetition - known as propaganda method - to show as nonexistent and the package of around 44 billion euros, allocated to support the branches affected by the pandemic. In the same context we are systematically accused of the Separate Opposition that the Ministry of Culture and Sport ignores and cares for workers in the field of contemporary culture, when about EUR 1 billion has been allocated to date to strengthen the affected area of modern creation and when reform measures are put in place to deal with chronic pathogens of those involved in the sector by drawing on additional resources for modern culture over 200 million from the Recovery Fund. But the global challenge facing all states today is the climate crisis. Three strong, unprecedented phenomena have been called upon by the government to deal with over the last 12 months, "Medea", "Medea" and "Elpida". Obviously, there was a suffering of our fellow citizens. Apparently there were failures. Evidently significant deficiencies were identified. But let us not overlook the fact that there were no victims. Let no one try to invest in short-term memory. Comparisons fully substantiate who have failed to manage crises, flooding and fire. Has the Civic Opposition been taught by its uncertainty, its failures, its failures, its failures? If I'm judging by the evidence from the Ministry of Culture, I'm answering no. Since 2015 scientists have been warning about the effects of the climate crisis on cultural heritage, especially on the Mediterranean region. By July 2019, no policy had been planned to address the problem at all. Since taking over we have been working together systematically and closely with the scientific community and drawing up the national plan to address these risks. We are investing in prevention and systematic recording and monitoring. We have provided funds from the Recovery Fund for pilot and prevention projects in major archaeological sites, part of the package of some 600m euros that we are drawing together for culture through "Greece 2.0". These resources are added to the resources for its culture in progress, which we have received almost in hypnosis. From July 2019 until today, we have incorporated an additional hundred ninety-six projects. The increase is 110.1% compared to five years 2015 - 2019, while expenditure increased by 180.9% compared to the same five years. Today, in the works and sub-projects, which are part of the NSRF and carry out services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, more than four thousand workers are involved. Culture makes a decisive contribution to employment as it creates new jobs. Of course, we did not expect SYRIZA to recognise or vote in favour of the government's public policies in all areas, including culture. Even in the national vision of the return and reunification of the Parthenon Sculptures, while London's historic and conservative "TIMES" have changed their position after fifty years thanks to our policies, the Accuracy Anti-Civilisation only expressed misery, denial and misery. For two-and-a-half years, our Skillful Opposition has become accustomed to the inexpensive creation and dispersal of fast news for everything, even when it is deceptive and harmful for the country. Not to mention the Acropolis or the archaeological register that restricts citizens' suffering or even Tatoi. I shall refer to the most characteristic example of the so-called destruction of the Mycenaeans by fire. In order to oppose the government and the Ministry of Culture they did not hesitate to speak consciously falsely about the supposed enormous destruction of the archaeological site including the Lion Gate. I hope, because they ignored the fact that the Lions Gate has had this color for centuries, due to the kind of rock and the fungus, thus defaming Greece abroad and, of course, overlooking any consequences their attitude to local society, the local economy and tourism can have. The archaeological site thanks not only to the prevention has not been damaged but, as you all know, it has normally worked for the public on the day after the fire that touched it. SYRIZA as a Civic Opposition did exactly the opposite of what New Democracy did as a military opposition in 2017, when one of the biggest monument disasters was caused in a period of peace outside the context of natural disasters by fire in Temens Bayazet. The New Democracy was then extremely careful, knowing perfectly what mill would throw water. It's all about difference and sense of responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, since July 2019 we have drawn up and implemented a clear, comprehensive plan. Our priority was along with the issues relating to the different policy areas and the serious problems of previous governance, the development of public realistic policies with tangible and measurable results in the quality of life of citizens, investment projects and the attraction of investment, entrepreneurship, digital transformation, economic development. This government operates in a spirit of solidarity and unity under the presidency of Mr Mitsotakis. It works uniformly, produces work, measurable and tangible, which is recognised by citizens and the international community. Greece is changing, conquering the position it deserves internationally. For all the above, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote against the motion of censure of the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u520	We continue with Mr. Digalakis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u521	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the House debates are taking place. Today we are discussing a motion of censure. Debates means rotation of speeches, exchange of views. In my speech, therefore, I shall refer to some of the things that have been heard by colleagues from the Staff Regulations. Unfortunately, there are very few of those who are here today. However, this will not prevent me from responding to certain things. This, of course, helps us to answer why the former Prime Minister, who has in his backs Eye and Mandra, has chosen to provoke a motion of censure against the government on a natural phenomenon. And the answer, which is seen by the Members of the Officerial Response in today's debate, is that Mr Tsipras was forced to take this option in order to face his own political deadlocks. He was forced by the pressures he received from everywhere, by his comrades at SYRIZA, by the former voters who no longer believe in him, and this is reflected in every measurement and, of course, by the popular results of KINAL. Angling Mr. Tsipras to remain in the party's leadership, despite the three defeats he already has and the subsequent ones that come, despite the strong reactions of the top SYRIZA officials to definitely democratic electoral processes and the storage of the mechanisms. Also struggling to keep SYRIZA a second party after the next elections and not a third party. Obviously the majority of the Greek people are not concerned by Mr Tsipras' concerns. Let's solve these, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response at your conference. On the issue of recent bad weather unlike you, the government and the Prime Minister himself recognised failures and apologized. Because only that way you correct your mistakes and move forward. But you also forsake us for the management of the pandemic. You are abdicating us because we have organized the freedom operation impeccably, by subtracting credit from much more organised countries, such as Germany, because we have gone to more than double the MDGs and because we have implemented an extensive programme of support for the economy. I just heard Mr Katrugalo accusing the Government and Members of the Coupling Group of make news and misinformation. He's not here. But I would like to ask him if he heard the suggestion made by the SYRIZA rapporteur on this motion of distrust, by Mr Janakopoulos yesterday, who, from this point of view, was lying and misled the Greek people that Greece has supposedly double deaths due to pandemic from the European average. It is regrettable that the Greek Parliament has reached the level of Internet trolls. Of course you'll tell me, it's not the first time. Continuously your executives adopt and disperse make news. According to official figures, Greece is exactly on the European average and would have gone even better if we had a higher rate of vaccination earlier, faster. However, you continue the tactics of the political exploitation of the pandemic and 'not all'. You continue with your attitude and the attitude of Members of Parliament, Mr Polakis, to strengthen the fear and perceptions that lead to some not being vaccinated. So how, ladies and gentlemen, do you intend to vote in favour of the motion of censure, will you explain your vote? Over the two and a half years, our country is not in the situation where Tsipras and SYRIZA had brought it. It is a country on an upward path, a country that its citizens first trust, its partners trust in the European Union, is trusted by its allies and the investment and economic world. We have faced and confronted crises that are unprecedented, congratulating them on this, which I do not think anyone should have imagined what would have happened if the Civic Opposition had to be managed. We have faced the crisis in Evros, but also every move to destabilise Turkey. We upgraded the geopolitical position and strengthened its defence. We freed the citizens from tax burdens imposed by SYRIZA and, above all, the middle class, which you had collapsed from taxes as well as from your extra tax insurance system. We quickly promoted digital transformation and e-government in a multitude of citizens' transactions with public services, saving time and effort for all. And now, with the energy crisis, once again the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has taken timely measures to support households and businesses. In universities, in cooperation with the academic community, we took key initiatives, strengthening the self-employed, extroversion and security. We have allowed foreign language programmes to be set up. We are practically encouraging cooperation with acquainted foreign universities. We moved forward in favour of innovation, favouring the interconnection of universities with the economy and the labour market. We took the word "entrepreneurship" out of the banned list and created the framework for the establishment of know-how companies by the members of universities and research centres. However, as a Member of Parliament of Chania, I cannot help mention the northern axis of Crete. I have already heard Mr Spirtzi with a very intense and spectacular look in his speech on the motion of censure, and I cannot imagine how the Cretans will remember him on the issue of the northern road axis of Crete. They will remember him because he had called us "fruths", which we wanted a modern and secure highway from one end of Crete to the other. Don't ask me, ladies and gentlemen, what 'fruids' means. It's a idiom of the Cretan dialect. Please, look for it. But our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, acts as a commitment of the New Democracy with a plan, a definitive development, with discreet maturity and guaranteed funding. The BOAK, the largest road project in Europe, ensures road safety, speed of travel, local development, strengthening tourism, jobs, environmental protection. So every citizen understands that the present government and multi-faceted work is doing - from the first day he has taken up - and corrective actions for any time-consuming or transient weaknesses. The Government of New Democracy has the stature and the advantage of being able to address citizens, tell truths and apologize when mistakes are made. We leave to our political opponents their dead ends, their introvert and their illusions. They've had enough trouble in the country for four and a half years. The people do not forget this, and they will not forget it - be sure - even in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u522	Thank you. Next, Mr. Barkas Konstantinos from SYRIZA, immediately after Mr. Kumoutsakos and Mr. Ilhan Ahmet, and then Minister Papathanases.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u523	I would like to begin by saying that I will vote in favour of the motion of censure against the government on a number of issues and problems facing the Greek society. Mr President, unfortunately, Greek society has been facing a number of problems in recent times which are no longer hidden. The Members of the New Democracy choose to support a triumph made up of ministries of the extreme right, ministers who were in other political bodies. It is a triumph consisting of various pieces led by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who dealt only with lies, lying to the Greek people. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you support this triumph, because you are all here, and you are all without your own opinion, and you are puking, you always say the same poem, which you have been shared by Maximos. What are you saying about the motion of censure? That she did for the polls. You plead for Matty and Mandra and say that you did excellently in the invasion of Evros and that you apologise to the Greek people. Really, for what? What are you apologizing for from the Greek people? What exactly are you talking about? In his inconvenience, in the fact that a father from Kos spent nineteen hours with his nineteen-month-old child excluded in the suburban lines, in the fact that people were severely afflicted and didn't know the lessons of this suffering of the people, the fact that the roads of Athens, the capital of the country, were closed for more than five days? The motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, was tabled because it was a demand from society.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u524	Mr President, what does it say so long? Does she see a troupe here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Undersecretary, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u526	Protect Parliament, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u527	This society is demanding that this government, which is based on lies...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u528	Wait a minute. Mr. Undersecretary, I will protect you as well...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u529	To get it back what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u530	I get absolutely nothing back, I don't get anything back.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u531	Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u532	Please, in the plural as I speak to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u533	Just a moment, please, Mr. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen. I understand that you have any objections to what my colleague says. Once he gets the responsibility and says it from the Step of the House, you have the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u534	To say this to Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u535	To withdraw the designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u536	Please. I'm not here to judge. Please! You have the opportunity for the government immediately after taking the floor and answering. Please let the speaker finish, and then you will have the opportunity to reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u537	The motion of censure, Mr President, was tabled because it was a requirement of society, of a society in which you might also be trying to live, but it is assumed that you have turned your back on her. The economic crisis is here, present. The pandemic crisis, the health crisis is here, present. The energy crisis is here, present. The government and Mr. Mitsotakis, to whom you are always referring, do absolutely nothing so that they can salvage anything, if it can survive, from the constant poverty of society. It is a society that feels absolutely alone in the crisis, alone in the face of day-to-day problems, because it has no one, but no one to rely on. A society, social groups that are currently in an economic warp, social warp. People are afraid to live, precisely because you are doing absolutely nothing. All you've done is work the pandemic by mentioning whenever you think the head of the pandemic board for the management of the pandemic. For a year now, the 'green mile' has cost more than seventeen thousand lives lost. You have done absolutely nothing to shield public health. Every day we have hundreds of fellow humans who lose their lives. Because behind every man who loses his life there are families. And, unfortunately, this triumph secrets sepsis and dysosmia, when the right hand of the head of government, Mr. Mitsotakis, which you are seeking to mention in your speech as if he were going to upgrade this, his right hand has direct talks with a court - I cannot describe what he is doing - and they exchanged messages of abruptness. When Mr Gerapitris refused any relationship with this defendant - all of you know him, but you are ashamed to say this here, that the Prime Minister's right hand was talking to a defendant, you are ashamed - this is the sepsis you are carrying, which you are circulating throughout the country. So you are this triumph of people you talk to judiciaries who have various things in mind. And one last thing. Yes, we have a different political plan, because we are with society, we are with the many. You're with the few, your friends, the ones you're funding. Leave it 'a, good!' 'Ah, good!' Let them go. We're with society. Obviously, we have a different political plan. So continue to talk to the judiciary, continue to defend the Sepulchre of Maximus. We're turning your back. And of course we are ready, whenever you want - no fear of having elections - so that a progressive left-wing government arises so that the majority of society can get what is needed to get help in its problems. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u538	Thank you. Does anyone from the government want to talk? Please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u539	Mr President, the sympathetic group of actors who make up the enthusiasm offers something very useful to the Greek people. But I think that SYRIZA neither as a government nor now as a opposition has really nothing to give to the Greek people. We understand that every day more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u540	Mr Kumucasakos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. The embarrassment and provocation of all interventions by SYRIZA members confirm that Critical Opposition has transformed its insecurity into a motion of censure against the government. It is not a motion of censure, it is an attempt to escape, a micro-party handling of agony, anguish not for your place and citizens, but for your own political future, as you see the ground being lost under your feet. It is indeed a rare and awkward opposition officer's party at objectively difficult times and difficult times for the government to shrink politically and in public. Your agony is not whether you will be able to remain dedicated again at the end of the four-year period. That until yesterday was pretty sure. But today, your agony is whether you are partying to the third party. But that doesn't interest Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, in the management of recent long weather there have also been failures and inadequacies that need to be corrected and the responsibilities to be attributed. It is a debt to the citizens who are justly indignant and demanding. The Prime Minister spoke responsibly and truly. And to come to the Practical issue a little. You're asking for the Snow Practices. Can I tell you what we're asking for? The referendum decision that only got out of hand led Greece outside the European Union. The Minutes of your decision to close the banks. The Prespecies Practicals. This is a practical matter of seriousness that we must discuss in the Greek Parliament and in society. These Minutes must be submitted. Climate crises are new regularity, which is why they are not offered - and we must say that - for reasons, precisely because it is new regularity. A strong institutional coordination is urgent among all stakeholders, government, regions, municipalities and individuals. In an open economy private individuals have an obligation and a duty to attempt with corporate responsibility, with profits and obligations and at the cost at which they must be charged when they do not, as they are now, respond. The first concern for all of us is the citizen, his safety and his dignity. We in front of him and errors can be identified and apologise can be said. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We did it and we did it, which you didn't have the courage to squash over all these years. And today you have been provoked by the Minister of Development for an apology of staff, because you have troubled him for five years and you do not have the courage to do so. Leave the theories on what happened with "NOVARTIS" and your views. Respectful. The man you spent five years in, won't you say sorry? Your colleague is after all. As the Prime Minister has said, we have set the bar of expectations high. The comparison is made with the needs of today and tomorrow, not with the weaknesses of yesterday. We act, teach and move. In thirty months it is difficult to solve deep-rooted problems and change attitudes of decades, how much more when combined with multiple and imported alien crises. Pandemic, migration, Turkish aggression, energy crisis, accuracy, climate change. These are no pretexts, they are not excuses, they are the reality, the reality we have seen since the country's first day of governance. In the pandemic with unprecedented adverse conditions and difficulties we are giving a hard struggle that cannot be infallible, because it is cruel, everyday and continuous. With the valuable heroic offer of doctors, nurses and administrative staff of hospitals we keep society up and do not forget that many others contribute in this effort, the Army, the Greek Police, the citizens themselves. But we kept the economy up and up. You who blame us as extremist neoliberals, have made the biggest public support in the modern history of the Greek state. With EUR 43 billion, we stood alongside households and businesses, supported the middle-class and weak strata, motivated investment. Although we were facing crises, we have promoted necessary, necessary changes and reforms. As the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has promised, we have reduced insurance contributions by three units, we have reduced HNPH, we have reduced the tax rate for natural and legal persons, we have reduced the dividend tax. And above all, because it was fair, we increased the minimum wage and there's a second increase in time. Progress in the economy is visible: GDP growth, households' available income growth, increase in business and citizens' deposits, decrease in unemployment and strengthen labour. One more thing I want to say. Pensioners do not cry in front of closed banks, as you have done for your days, the days of capital controls. The state's digitisation is polluting, economic indicators and economic figures are improving, we have an upward trend in industrial production, strengthening electronic transactions, improving the competitiveness of the economy. They invest global colossal in the country. You have heard some of them: 'AMAZON', 'MICROSOT', 'JP MORGAN'. That's not a theory words. They are many, new well-paid jobs and you have reproach. You don't want them? Don't you want those seats? Ladies and gentlemen, these two years we have upgraded the country's international position, Greece. We shielded her defense. Diplomatically, the country was strengthened with a dense network of cooperation in the region with France, with the United States, with the United Arab Emirates. Businessly, the country is shielded with significant investment in the Armed Forces in air, land and sea. That's what we did. What did you do? Watch out. At the time when an aggressive neighbour provokes and threatens, you voted against the defensive budget, the Greek defence strategy agreement with France and, as I hear, you have decided to vote against the Greek American agreement. You voted against the wall in Evros. You went through it. Even for the Rafahs across you are. Honestly I wonder, what do you think? How do you apologise to the women and men of the Armed Forces who need wholehearted national support to accomplish their mission from a Civic Civilization that does not support, plunder and divide? Even in the vital issues of security and defence of the country, I wonder what it has to expect of the Greek people? He's got nothing to wait for. He's turned your back on you. That is why, as I said at the outset, you have not tabled a motion of censure today, you are looking for a way out of your deadlock. However, your deadlocks to solve them on your own, not on the backs of the Greek people and the political stability we are asking for.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u542	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u543	Ten seconds. We're with the citizens. They may sometimes get angry with us, but at the same time they know where they can invest and put hopes for stability, security, for prospects. So we're going past you, and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u544	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u545	I am voting against the motion of censure or rather escaping SYRIZA, I support the political stability and perspective of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u546	We are now continuing with Mr Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement and then the Minister will talk. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition against the Government, in which the Change Movement had stated from the outset that it would vote in favour of it. It is clear that the Change Movement has been holding a responsible opposition for two and a half years, recognised by the citizens and far from the screams and insults of other political forces inside and outside Parliament. We are aware of the anguish of the New Democracy and SYRIZA in the face of the populism and the social acceptance of the Change Movement that has come to overthrow the ruthless and incomplete bipartite worlds that we have been living in recent years. For Mr. Skourletis, for example, the hundred and twenty-four dead in Eye and Mandra is a candy that has melted. And the dead, of course, have melted, but not as candy. Is it ever possible for a left man to liken human loss to be likened to melted candy? On the other hand, we have a pandemic, we have a deficit of RS, millions of uninvasive people, and perhaps a bad governance. We won't smear on the dead. We are not the ones who compare which government produces more pain, victims and social deadlocks, because we want to invest in Greece that looks at the future, creating opportunities and prospects for the new generation, offering a social model of protection for the weakest, low-retired and third-age people. If there is a phrase that society is chanting these days is undoubtedly: "Take responsibility at last" or someone to take responsibility at last, the responsibility that the present government so urgently and at every opportunity asks the citizens, the responsibility that, unfortunately, avoids with no apologies, while SYRIZA and the former Prime Minister did not see an apology at that time with the events in Matti. But the citizens are no longer convinced. They demand acts and not a hypocritical invocation in emotion, which not only solves the problem, but ultimately allows it to be repeated in every crisis. How many times can an apology finally be enough? In the summer we had the fires, in the autumn, the floods and now the snow. In all three cases management was not only disappointing, but perhaps disastrous. The Government shall be affected by its final state and digital governance. For my part as Digital Governing Division of the Change Movement, I have to say this: Direct assignments in the name of the speed of digitisation may lead to the destruction of public money. There must be open and transparent tenders for digitisation at all levels so that the state is citizen-friendly and not capable of it. Transparency, accountability, digital transformation are the key elements that will restore the state's lost credibility towards society. And when we talk about digital transformation, we are certainly not talking about digital bureaucracy, which will simply replace the Greek public paper ballot. We are living in a country where, unfortunately, we still have the most expensive internet throughout Europe, where access to fast and secure internet services for many parts of the country is still a question, in a country where citizens are being perpetrated daily by electronic fraud, at the same time as pandemics have launched electronic commerce and its use by citizens. As more and more areas of everyday life are connected to the digital space and the pandemic has speeded up this development, we are increasingly exposed to cyber threats. Ladies and gentlemen, two months ago the Minister for Rural Development announced support for tobacco producers in Thrace with an increase of EUR 90 per acreage for the loss of income during the Krone season. It was me who thanked from this Step, in my speech in the budget, the Prime Minister himself, the President of the Intergroup for Thrace and Mr. Skulakakis as Deputy Minister of Finance. Unfortunately, however, I have to note that the timetables are not respected and the weeks go by without this decision being implemented. It is a decision that the Prime Minister himself personally committed. Gentlemen of the government finally take the initiative here and now to make your promise to these poor people. Time may be for you, but for them it is already counting in reverse for them to stay in their farms and in their productive homes, because the growing season begins in March and they need this money. They only live from them. If I were only asked for one reason to reproach the government, ladies and gentlemen, that would be the financial abandonment of Thrace, which gives rise to despair, immigration and broadens the social inequalities and the distrust of citizens. Why are you doing this? What is it that prevents you from seeing the reality of the serious danger that Thrace is facing? We hope and believe in the conclusion of the intergroup. If it is a conscious political choice, then you will be judged on the polls by the people, but on me and beyond any narrow political and party interest - those who know me, who know me - it is a matter of saving the poor farmers and the non-preferentials of Thrace. Do it before it's too late for our place and our area. Ladies and gentlemen - I conclude, Mr President - the Change Movement insists on putting forward concrete proposals, claiming that they be part of the solution rather than of the problem reproducing the polarisation and aggregation of party armies. Our country's next social-democratic government is convinced that the Change Movement will have a trunk and ideological expression. Until then we will be present in all battles, in and out of Parliament, next to the citizens, together with the people, with the aim of opening up a new page on the future of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u548	Thank you for the time. The Minister is next, Mr. Papathanases, and then Mr. Vassiliadis immediately thereafter. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u549	Thank you very much, Mr President. As the time is 1.15 minutes, I have no right to exceed ten minutes. I will be brief, concise and substantial. In the debate today we should be able to identify the differences between the two parties, the New Democracy and the SYRIZA. I think I'll agree with Mr. Vitch. We have Mr. Barka who said we are divided by two worlds. We are divided by two worlds, so I will only stand by some of them which divide us into words that divide us, because these words are unknown to SYRIZA. For us, they are worthy or policy rules. First word: 'I'm sorry'. There isn't. You have all said so, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Members of the New Democracy. You've repeated it many times. The Prime Minister said so. We have never heard the word "excuse" in the history of the SYRIZA party, as a state, as a state, as a society, even today. Mr. Barkas is leaving. You're leaving? Have a seat, you'll give us the apology in a minute. Even today when Mr Georgiadis asked you to say an apology for this slander that he suffered, you did not have the courage and daring to smash a word. You can't. That word chokes you. You cannot say it, you cannot articulate it, neither when you closed the banks, nor when you saw the pensioners down from the banks down, neither in Matty, nor when you mocked the citizens in your false referendums, nor when you increased taxes or reduced pensions. You can't say the word. She drowns you and you can't tell her! The second word is 'true'. You're so scared. Kyriakos Mitsotakis can see reality and tell the truth in the world. Can't you tell the truth why? Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to whom you referred, Mr Barkas, has the mental power, moral and political power to lift the Greeks up, to look at them in the eyes and to say apologise, to tell the truth to the Greek people, the one you never said in four and a half years. You are scaring and expecting benefits through the climate crisis, because obviously what you are doing today is because you feel the breath of KINAL very close to you and that scares you. You're scared. So we're two worlds. Two and a half years of government, six years after Mr. Mitsotakis took over the party's presidency. In all proceedings, in all elections you have lost. It scares you, you can't deal with it. You have to understand that. You can't face Mr. Mitsotakis. We have been called upon to face many crises, migration, threats from neighbours, health crisis, energy crisis. We were close to society. The third largest share of GDP in the Eurozone is also here. We kept the market alive, where other large countries in Europe had empty shelves. He didn't miss anything during the pandemic. We have brought tools so that the consumer can be informed. We continued and reduced taxes by supporting businesses and households. The third word that haunts you, and you cannot say, is 'investments'. Investments, which is a policy rule for us, are expected to increase 21.9%. Our country will have the second highest growth in investment in Europe in 2022. The business expectations index was reinforced in October at 112,9 points, the second largest increase since April 2007. I don't suppose you're questioning these statistics. Direct foreign investment increased 77% in attraction, while at the same time in Europe foreign direct investment decreased by 13%. For the first time Greece ranked among the ten most attractive destinations for foreign investment. Competitiveness index, we posted three posts in the global ranking. In the two years 2019 to 2020, the competitiveness of the Greek economy has been where it has not been found in the last 12 years. We believe that by continuing our reform policy, and since we are consistent with what we say and have done so, and that the global business community is aware of, we will have a strong growth. We continued to manage our budgets in such a way that the markets can trust us in order to be able to lend ourselves in the midst of the crisis, since we had a deficit budget. Fourthly,'reliability'. We restored Greece's prestige in the global investment community through the difficult conditions we have passed. We have laid a strong foundation for an extroverted and modern business environment, whose processes are constantly simplified and accelerated. Fifth word you do not understand - it is unknown in your vocabulary - is "confidence". We have created and continue to create a relationship of trust between state and investor, and this gives the message to the global investment community that we are serious, so foreigners come and want to buy Greece, want to be here. We've unblocked big investments. You were afraid to talk to the investors, you were hiding. I shall refer to the Greek and many others. We continued to simplify the institutional framework for licensing so that today 80% of the permits for business start-ups are made by simple notification. We have managed - and we continue - to reduce the time for investment projects to be subject to the development law. We continue, I say, with the developmentist, because that is where it will go horizontally and in the regions of our country from mid-sixty-seven days to a hundred days. The statistics are hard for you, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Farm feed: Since 2016 with the application of Law4399, it is 381% and I am talking about an annual increase in subsistence to development law. Supply chain: It's a 688% annual increase, your year with a year of ours. Processing: 170%. Tourism: 254%. Services: 332%. General: Increase 282%. And in order not to waste time, 284% total cost of investment all over Greece. I'm filing it in the Minutes to see it. Next week it begins - on Monday - the new development law, a powerful tool that will give strong growth and bring investment across the region, because regions will have a strong quota in their support. In two and a half years of governance we approved twenty-seven new strategic budget investments of EUR 5.4 billion, we approved fifteen new public-private partnerships of over EUR 2 billion. They run all the major road projects, the competition for the thirteen regional Civil Protection Business Centres runs, which is crucial. We moved on to a fair development transition. For the first time the state, when the lignite production was reduced by 52% and nothing happened, did not even turn your attention there. For the first time Greece turns attention to a fair development transition. We are building and we will continue to build a state that will give investors a sense of confidence, less of a state in the processes. Unknown for you: 'development': 'CISCO', 'MICROSOFT', 'PFIZER', 'AMAZON'. When you filed the motion of distrust, the big houses came to our homeland to invest money. JP MORGAN was here and from evolution, as it appears from the study of MARATHON VENTURE CAPITAL, we will record a record of investments of the startup of Greek founders and will continue and be in the first positions of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, we never claimed infallibility. We are here to support the economy, business and our fellow citizens. To congratulate all the hundreds of volunteers, workers to deal with the crisis we have experienced and to stress that the New Democracy Government will continue hard, bring growth, bring new jobs, reverse the Brain Drain. That's our goal, that's our vision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u550	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u551	Mr. Barka, please tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u552	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u553	Explain what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u554	The Minister referred to me by name and I would like to reply to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u555	What's the matter? Why? Did he offend you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u556	Yeah, he offended me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u557	That you're leaving said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u558	Please, I'll make up my mind. Would you like to take over, Mr Spankis, and the Bureau of Parliament? Wait a minute! The Minister mentioned your name without saying anything else. It's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u559	Of course, Mr President, I do not understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u560	It's not a personal matter. We're continuing with Mr. Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u561	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u562	You didn't convince me, that's my point of view!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u563	Is that how you act, Mr. President? You're friends with the New Democracy! Congratulations! You are characterized by this attitude!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u564	Please, Mr Vasileidis, you have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u565	Mr President, the Minister referred to me and you are not giving me the floor! You are not giving the floor to a Member to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u566	Mr. Vasiliade, please, start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, Mr President. We are taking part today in the top parliamentary scrutiny procedure to discuss a motion of censure against the government signed by the members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. The reason, according to the text of the proposal you are signing, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is the ineffectiveness of the government - in your view - and the arguments accompanying it are summarised in three categories. Let's see them one by one. Inefficiency - see - in the management of the pandemic. What's the reality? Initially, we had an exemplary response to the phenomenon at the critical stage of the eruption, where the government acted immediately and effectively, taking measures earlier than most European countries. At the same time, the support of the ESS began, initially in the critical part of the IMs, where the five hundred and fifty-seven beds that were in 2019 have reached the thousands of three hundred. We gradually go through the redesign and reconstruction of the ESS, with emphasis on primary care, but also on the region, where there is the greatest problem. The ESS was also reinforced by fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff, while six thousand additional recruitments are expected in 2022. And all of this given that the number of intensifiers or pulmonaries is not unlimited nor can young people be trained from one day to the next. When the vaccine you claimed was not available, the "Freedom" operation was organized in an unprecedented and exemplary way. What was SYRIZA's contribution to this national effort? Once again, its undermining, whether by continuously increasing the numbers of health you were asking to be recruited, when you saw that the government was running faster than your cries, or by cultivating fear with the vaccine, so that today the percentage of the uninvasive, especially in critical ages, will keep the number of losses high. So what inefficiency are you talking about when the people's feeling of pandemic has been expressed from the first moment of the pandemic with the words 'happily it has not happened to us in SYRIZA!'? Now we're going to the economy. Despite the adversities and the great blow from pandemic to tourism, we are seeing a strong recovery and, in any case, faster than the European States' average. In addition, at this unfortunate juncture, the New Democracy Government brought to the House support measures for the middle-class and weak strata of around EUR 43 billion, while tax reductions and insurance contributions. It strengthened the credibility and prestige of the country. We also see a fall in unemployment, an increase in exports and flagrant investments from international colosses that will create many and well-paid new jobs. Even the wave of precision in energy and goods, due to international factors, hastened to deal with it, offering support to households. All these important interventions by SYRIZA voted against and the only proposals he made concerned an increase in state spending, that is, the same recipe that led us to the great debt crisis. Third category of arguments about the alleged inefficiency of the government to deal with crises. Let's start with the situation that SYRIZA left in Civil Protection in 2019: Some offices in an inappropriate space, subordinated and without equipment. In two years' time this picture has changed radically, despite the fact that the scope for improvement is obviously still important. A characteristic example is “112”, which has been in drawers for too many years, and today it is fully functional by saving lives. In the recent bad weather in Attica, obviously, there have been failures and shortcomings, which need to be corrected. We must be prepared. However, we must recognise that it was a rare phenomenon in intensity for Attica. Such snow storms often face in Pella. We also know them, and we know what we have to do, as in many other parts of the country these days. We have already received our lessons, as in the case of "Medea", and we have reformed the way of compensation from the state to the citizen for natural disasters. In the motion of censure, therefore, you say that the government does not enjoy the confidence of the citizens. I, as MP Pellas, will talk about the people of Pella and about what they have seen in the two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy. So the people of Pella have seen an implementation orbit after many years the largest and most important project for the Regional Unity that is no other than the Thessaloniki-Yannitsa-Edessa road axis. In addition, infrastructure projects such as the new Court of Edessa, the construction of a natural gas network in large cities and later its expansion and elsewhere and important irrigation projects, such as the Almopeaus dam, are being launched. Also, they see the importance that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis attaches to such an important primary sector for the economy of Pella. After years, our farmers are credited for the aid and compensation in time, while for the first time the state observes its obligation and strengthens the ELGA. At the same time, more and more young people are consciously working with the earth through programs and incentives. In Pella we see the Government's attitude on foreign policy, the expansion of our territorial waters and the effective defence of our territories and our rights from Evros to the Eastern Mediterranean, the support of the Armed Forces and the supply of modern systems such as the Raphael aircraft. However, we see the government's attitude to everyday life, such as leaps to digital governance and upgrading services to the citizen or to sensitive issues for disabled people. I shall conclude, Mr President. Despite difficulties and failures, we are implementing our programme. There's also mistakes. We recognize them, learn from them and move on. On the contrary, we have restored citizens' confidence in the state. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you had made your self-criticism, you wouldn't have talked about the worst government the place has ever known since post-Civilisation. To face your own political dead ends you are resorting to polarization, destruction and falsehood. The New Democracy Government has the confidence of Pella's society, Mr President. It therefore has my confidence, and that is why I will vote against the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u568	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Vassilis Kokas from SYRIZA has the floor. Then Mr. Keletsis, Mr. Lambroulis and Mr. Skoutakakis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not it is effective or not a motion of censure, regardless of its well-being, is judged by the criticism it receives. First of all, the powerful, according to the District Director of Attica, Mr Georgios Patoulis, the government's communication system, and then the calls so far by the MPs, but also the ministers who intend to vote against the motion of censure, the majority of these speeches, the eight out of ten, refer to arguments, such as that in the Chamber there are two, three, four Members of the Officerial Representation and that this move is a despair move, a dead end. The motion of censure is the beginning of the apology which began yesterday and will end with the verdict of the Greek people in the elections. The Rules of Procedure, but also the logic, ladies and gentlemen, say that in the motion of censure, the government's policies should be opposed, because the motion of censure concerns the general government's policy. Instead, we really have very little to do with it - in fact we have very little to do with it. First you have to apologize for the pandemic. You must apologise to the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, because after the first wave and while you knew that the National Health System requires substantial and real support, you did not do so. Mr Mitsotakis has to be apologised to the Greek people, because while he knew that PCRs were prescribed in most European Union countries, he concealed it from the Greek people and lied in the face. Mr Mitsotakis has to be apologised because he knows that death outside intensive care facilities is increasing, but he has done nothing. You need to apologize to pensioners for taxing retroactives at the same time as you spent millions of euros on nonexistent websites, according to the Pecha list. You should apologise to the private sector workers to whom you are placing an increase in minimum wage in May. You must apologise to the free professionals for not deleting the 'currency'. You have to apologize, actually. Mr President, allow me to refer a little more to the accuracy. I really heard Mr Georgiadis and, to be honest, because of his narrow voice, I had doubts. I said in me, "Do you think he's right? Is that the reality he described and the banker with whom the Prime Minister met with the 1,1 billion saves Greece?" It is time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to put aside the communication terminology and deal with the substance. I have an account here and I'll wait for an answer. This account is two months old and it's about the focus. For the months September-October the account was EUR 2,800 and for the months October-November it was EUR 13,608. So here, now, we have to tell truths. How will this businessman cover these ten grand? Can I make a case for dialogue and consensual mood? Let us say that you are subsidising the 5,000 euros, as Mr Screkas said, that is 50%. The other five grand, where will he find them? Is that the increase in the income available? Where's he going to get the other five? I want someone to give a convincing answer to both me and the citizen. And that's thousands. Is the banker with whom Mr. Mitsotakis met? Where's he gonna get the other five grand when he can't borrow from the banks? Mr Georgiadis said that we have an increase in available income of 6% according to EUROSTAT. And because I like to talk about data, it was about 2020 that the economy was closed. I present a survey of EUROSTAT's increase in housing costs in Greece where we have a negative first and a post five days ago in the newspaper "KATHMERINA". There's a negative first for our country. In Greece we have the highest cost of housing. The problem lies, says Kathimerini, in that increases in rent do not follow household incomes. Excuse me now, are we working? Where is Mr. Georgiadis to counteract this evidence? Are we out of reality or are we the ones claiming them? You must apologise to farmers too. Honestly, I address Members from rural areas to change the Rules of Procedure. The State's obligation to pay compensation in time is to pay compensation. With regard to the change in the regulation, we said: 'Go ahead, do it'. The amendment of the Regulation began on 16 December 2018. It can't be done in six months and in one year. Go ahead, do it...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u570	The ELGA?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u571	The CONTROL Regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u572	It's starting forward! You were Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u573	On 16 December 2018, Mr Besiropoulos. Then the decision was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u574	Mr. Comrade, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u575	Are you going to say that? This is what the rural world expects, because the timely payment of compensation is anyway an obligation of the state. We are talking about changing the Rules of Procedure. This is what the primary sector expects to hear on this three-day day. I shall conclude, Mr President, in twenty seconds. The biggest crime in the primary sector is the unregulated and uncontrolled installation of photovoltaics in all the camps, with the result that in very few years the production of agricultural products has decreased. Is that your vision of the primary sector? I am presenting for the Minutes the documents I have mentioned to you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u576	Both Ministers have asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Dogfish, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u577	I would just like to say that in fact the timely payment of compensation is an obligation of the state, which is why, today, compensation is being paid in good time, and much more than that provided for by the ELGA - see in the last glacier - as opposed to the SYRIZA period.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u578	Here, Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u579	Mr Colleague, it's just as the Minister said. They are being paid on time and as the compensation is to be paid, not those crumbs that you have shared over the past few years. Secondly, the ELGA Regulation began to change, i.e. the change process started with the amendment tabled by Mr Karasmani in 2014 and the proportionate studies started. You have ruled - and Mr Apostlelos here, who was former Minister for Rural Development and you State Secretary for Rural Development - four and a half years and it is courageous to come after so many years and talk about changing the Rules of Procedure. It's false that it started in 2018. You have ruled and you have done nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u580	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u581	Mr President, I would like ten seconds for the debate!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u582	No, no, there's no more dialogue than that. Mr Keletsis has the floor and Mr Lambroulis continues. Here, Mr. Keletsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u583	However, I, Mr Colleague, when I was elected in 2019 to Evros, the first request that we received from all our colleagues was to pay them money that the state owed them from floods in 2016. That is why there had been no advances, there had been no preparations. We did everything in a few months and we did it in 2019. This is whether the state should be consistent to pay compensation. You're right. Of course it must be. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution in Article 84 enables the government to submit a motion of censure as the most powerful weapon of opposition to the government. In fact, this article stipulates that the issues on which there is a question should be clearly mentioned in the motion of censure. With a rough search in our younger political history I have tried to see what matters have actually been put forward of distrust. Listen. In 1988, Constantine Mitsotakis tabled a motion of censure to Andreas Papandreou on foreign policy and economy issues. Constantine Mitsotakis testified again in 1989 for the Koskota scandal. In March 1993 Andreas Papandreou submitted to Mitsotakis on a national topic that was open at that time. In 1996, a motion of censure was tabled because the Prime Minister at the time was unable to rule the country, because he was in the hospital. However, a proposal for distrust has never been tabled in Greek political history, but I think that worldwide is an unprecedented world record and only SYRIZA could do so. And would anyone believe that the issue of crisis management was also the privileged field in which SYRIZA could do so? I think we all have the exact opposite image. Of course, we are all aware of the real reasons why this motion of censure has been tabled. Many speakers have referred to them, including speakers from the SYRIZA, and I do not need to mention it. I would just like to say that they believed that with Hope there could also be a hope of salvation and survival for the SYRIZA party as an officer of opposition. For us, however, the proposal is welcome and thank you for submitting it, because you have given us the opportunity to highlight what we have done so far in all areas, in the economy, in our national affairs, in defence, in the area of state digitisation, in education and even in health. It is an opportunity to recall at the same time a few points from your own governance, such as the shipwreck in your immigration policy, the fourth unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, the closure of banks and capital control, the tails and faintings outside the banks branches in June 2015, the efforts to manipulate the press and control the notorious joints of power and justice. Of course, two words are enough for crisis management: Mandra and Matti. Nothing else. I will not go into the achievements of this government because many of the previous speakers, like the last Deputy Minister for Development, have mentioned very much. I would just like to say on a subject that we in Evros are particularly interested in, immigration, where we changed our doctrine and our policy, giving a very clear signal that the country is not a clear vine. The first response was given to the Castanes in March 2020 at the Greek Turkish border. Since then, we have strengthened the security and security of the citizens, enriching the Army and the Police, but also the Port with new means of technology, but also with new human resources, with border guards and VDUs. We expanded and upgraded the fence to forty kilometers. Let me remind you that for this fence you had the view that it should not be done. We have moved on to important reforms, of course, in education. Of course, in health it is true that we have received a system of ageing and injured since the crisis. That makes sense to influence and restrict the system's ability to deal with pandemic, such as the one we have been dealing with over the last two years. Nevertheless, we have managed and hired ten thousand doctors and nursing staff, five thousand of whom will stay in the U.S.S.S.R. through procedures and, of course, more than double the MIT beds. Ladies and gentlemen, you could of course refer to a lot of things, but because time is too short, and we must also thank you for one more reason: you have given us the opportunity to highlight the value of apology in politics, which is neither easy nor frequent. Definitely mistakes are made and weaknesses emerge in day-to-day governance. And, of course, in the case of the last bad weather, "Elpida", it has been evident that there are weaknesses in the functioning of the state and changes need to be made especially in the planning of crisis management. Some inside might miss us. That is what we need to have. Awesome people are there. We got them. What is needed is a tight crisis management plan that will be implemented in these cases. I shall conclude, Mr President, by closing my sentence. We have so far been able to cope successfully with four crises far more important than this crisis of bad weather. We are sure that with this experience we will improve, we will change, we will become better. This debate gives us another opportunity to start, to renew our relationship of trust with the citizens, and that is why we thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u584	Mr Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor. Next, Mr. Skylakakis, Mr.Baraliakos, Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Yoyakas, Mr. Moraitis, Mr. Stefanidis, Mr. Stephanadis, Mr. Papastasis, Mr. Papastasis, Mr. Moraitis. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u585	Thank you, Mr President. The question of whether the policy of the Government of New Democracy, like the previous anti-popular governments, should be condemned by the vote in the House, the JRC answers 'yes'. The crucial issue for us, however, is that the labour movement should have the faith in power and the ability to break down this government and any government in the territory of power and economic sovereignty of capital, for precisely such a government always legislates at its expense, regardless of what it calls itself, liberal, neoliberal, social-democratic, central-left, left-wing and goes by saying. The people can define developments if they understand and use their power to take power themselves, if they realize that the game is not played in Parliament, but in the organization at the workplace, if they organise their struggle against monopolies and policy that serves them and supports them, a policy for which the coming of the pandemic revealed in the most tragic way the long-term responsibilities of all governments, as well as of the current New Democracy Government, by creating a health system completely inconsistent with the current possibilities and needs of the people. This is because, regardless of the individual management recipes followed by all the governments, measures are promoted which have a common objective: the more effective implementation of the European Union strategy and the capital for the formation of even cheaper workers as a precondition for stimulating competitiveness and the recovery of profitability of business groups. This strategy is also served by the policy of reducing non-wage costs, such as cutting costs for the prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of the health of workers and their families. This is the main reason why the outcome of all the plans of all governments leads from bad to worse the conditions of life and health of the people. This strategy is subordinate to the functioning of public health units and benefits with the criteria of cost, recompense, entrepreneurship, commercialisation, individual responsibility, and thus the people's acute problems in protecting and restoring their health are constantly deteriorating. The service of this strategy is due to the impor tantification by the government of reason that a luxurious health system, which will remain abundant after the pandemic, is not necessary and that the government is also struggling with the management of pandemic in the cost-benefit criterion. It is the policy that promotes gambling with the clinical leaders instead of unconditionally ordering their infrastructures, with the government saying that what is being imposed is compensated, because we have no communism, and SYRIZA talking about fair compensation for the clerks. It is the policy that sees pandemic as an opportunity to promote reactionary restructuring in health through the so-called 'new RIS', business action, rehearsal the generalized contractors due to staff shortages, health movements, suspensions, closures, mergers, conversions of clinics, and the closure of hospitals that all governments have been maintaining for so many years. It is the policy that sees health as a field of business, with individuals feeding from all shortages in public hospitals and primary health care, getting their profits from every day waiting for a basic medical act. It is the policy of hospitals-union companies, PPPs, such as what SYRIZA inaugurated at the Santorini Hospital, the policy that divides the health pie into groups, leaving the people exposed, with minimal benefits. It is the policy of the quasi-target protocols, of the cut and sewn to the measures of the employer, of schools operating on even worse terms, of the means of transport which are an area of over-transmission. It is his policy of even lowering the health budget for 2022, following all the cuts from every government in previous years, but also the increase in the payments of workers to insurance funds, the continuation of the bleeding of popular incomes for the purchase of health services, which in 2019 represented 5.7 billion euros, while in 2012 - 2019 public pharmaceutical expenditure decreased by 50% and patient participation only increased by 52.8%. And this huge burden on the people is being incurred in order to save resources to support the capital. It is, therefore, the same criminal anti-grassroots policy that turns the vaccine from a valuable weapon to a convenient alibi for a state and an employer to solve what it costs, but also to strengthen individual responsibility. It is the policy that hospitals led to blackouts with the first snowfall, which were called upon to raise the additional burden of a bad weather expected, with huge shortages of staff and infrastructure, without any aid, without any real care for health and patient. This policy therefore needs to be re-examined by the working people, at a time when it is confirmed that there is no fair demand for protection that does not stumble on the health strategy, which does not conflict with business action. There, therefore, it needs to be aimed at the working people's movement, claiming every measure that can save lives, strengthening the fight for an exclusively public and free health system that will serve people's needs. Therefore, no alibis to the Government and the State, no alibis to the SYRIZA, KINAL and other urban parties, whose confrontation with the Government reaches as the convenient and only perfect of incompetence, of the failure to manage, of errors, of issues which exist in the functioning of the State mechanism, but which are developed in the same territory as the civil state, the so-called "executive state", which is capable of serving the interests of the groups, but not of protecting the life and property, the income and the rights of the people. I'm closing, Mr. President. And because no one can play the headlines of the people's lives for the Groups' profits, the people themselves need to show their strength to determine developments. It's up to him, because only the people can save the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u586	Thank you for the consistency in time. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u587	Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly about two of the three issues raised by the opposition in the motion of censure, which are directly or indirectly related to my responsibilities. One is the extreme weather phenomena, which are indirectly related to the Recovery and Resistance Fund and inflation. I'll start with the recent blizzard. It brought us the climate of Northern Europe for a few days and the problems. The State, self-government, the private sector and the Mediterranean nature itself proved to be unprepared for the problems that have arisen. I don't remember in my life seeing what I saw this morning on Panormos Street, a large tree torn in two of the weight of snow in the center of Athens. However, this is not unique. Failure to deal with, which led to the trapping of road drivers, has often occurred in the rest of Europe. I will give you a few examples. Last February, in Autobahn A2 Rhineland - Westphalia thirty miles closed, hundreds of drivers spend the night in their car, as well as in the A4 motorway. On January 11, 2021, again in Germany, Autobahn A8, Bavaria, drivers spent the night in their cars, needed intervention from the army to help them in the streets near the Austrian border. And I could go on for five, ten minutes from Britain, France, Italy, Spain, Russia, America. Of course no one - not even in Germany, with the German state and its potential, not the Greek - thought that this was a cause for a motion of censure. On the substance of the matter now. Thousands that came every twenty and thirty years from now on will come every two and three years. So is the heat and ice. This is a new, unpleasant reality of the climate crisis and requires a completely new culture of response. There are obviously party fanaticisms, because snow, you know, is white, is neither blue nor green nor red nor orange. But above all, we need investment and that is what our government does. We have received a mechanism that is too weak, with zero investments. Zero. When Mandra became, Civil Protection was still in contact with a fax, in the year 2017. It was still in the 1980s and we actually started from scratch. To be precise, under zero, if I think of Matty. With the help of the Recovery Fund, large investment in civil protection has begun. The AEGEAN programme -1.76 billion euro, of which 408 million to the Recovery Fund, "Greece 2.0" - has it all, is complete. It has central and regional infrastructure, has machinery, vehicles, aeroplanes, helicopters, equipment, sensors, telecommunications, health material. It was approved in June 2021, planned in 2020 during the pandemic, it started, but it obviously takes at least two or three years, with the fastest possible procedures, so that we can have its completion. They're intercepting contests and the equipment coming in. You don't press a button and it changes a very big system. But central state investment alone is not enough. The local government must also make use of the "TRITIS ANITIS" which is a great tool to upgrade its infrastructure and promote these investments from others, which are more friendly to the electorate, and the private sector and households must invest. We all need to prepare for this new era of extreme climatic phenomena, because this time has started and will be at least ten, twenty, thirty years worse and no better. In Greece 2.0 we are giving help to both households and businesses to adapt and do other things, such as the large prevention programme of 50m euros for forests, which has already started and run directly, and in this spring we will have real results in forest prevention. And we also have 'EXCONOMY' and for households and businesses too much money and we also have money in the Recovery Fund for the restructuring of crops. We all need to invest and see that this problem unites us because it goes beyond us and should not separate us and wants us all to work, to seriousness, to speed and to efficiency. I am now coming to inflation. This is a phenomenon that is overwhelmingly due to increases in international goods, the prices of which we do not control. Natural gas has gone from EUR 15 to EUR 20 to EUR 70 to EUR 150, now it's around EUR 92. For every 10 euros increase is 600m euros in the economy and households. The current accounts that a Member here has demonstrated to them have 40% to 45% of gas as fuel and this has increased from four to six times. That's a reality. The government comes and covers a piece. For households covered a very large part, for businesses it covered nothing until December, but from January it covers 50%. But the possibilities - to know, everyone - are finite. We kept the economy up, with huge financial sacrifice, during the pandemic. We now need to reduce the deficit and from time to time to move to a primary surplus. Mild, but primary surplus. We must therefore be prudent and measured. We are already helping people with very large tax reductions that we have voted on and with reductions in insurance contributions and with the double increase in minimum wages - and if SYRIZA does not precede the level of increase - and we will continue to help, because the economy is going well. The pandemic is gradually going through the endemic phase around the world and exports, investments have already increased spectacularly since 2021. More exports we have in a pandemic period since 2019 and, of course, more investments. It will also go very well and tourism next year. You all heard the head of TUI saying that. So the citizens will experience 2022 that will go every day and better. We've been talking about flagrant international investment that everyone mentioned here. But it's of great importance, knowing why these emblematic investments of the major business colleges are like the heads of the investors' herds. When some of these large investors come to one country, others follow them in much larger numbers. In other words, they have a multiplier value of the high value of these investments themselves. And investment obviously means jobs, wages, prospects, futures and will be added much more and with the help of "Greece 2.0". And that practically means more revenue for the State, for tax reductions and for better social services. But there is one principle that we must follow. We have to make the money first and then spend it. It doesn't work backwards. First we spend and say the money will come somehow. Unfortunately, the Civic Opposition and I'm afraid other parties are telling us the opposite: "Find out money now we don't have. Loan as if there is no tomorrow and God has." Wait a minute, Mr. President. Look, ladies and gentlemen, especially of Officer Opposition, you haven't found Aladdin's lamp to rub it and make billions out of it. And what did you do? He came in 2015 and you messed up. That's what you did. You've charged us with taxes. And because no one was lending us as a country, the government ended up begging the lenders, with everything that followed. With the loss of confidence, when the first phase of the memorandum ended, the government and now the Civic Anti-Civilization ended to inflame the 'cushion' by overtaxing, dismantling the productive tissue and society. A party that speaks and speaks of a social state, did not give money for either health or ICUs. And he'd rather put it in the surpluses even the lenders hadn't asked for them. Because with populism no serious man trusted them. And, in order to convince the foreigners, they had to disguise the Greeks. This time is over. Come in, I think, definitively. This government has encountered crises that I, who have been following politics since the 1970s, do not remember all those forty years that have passed such crises. Pandemic, energy crisis, climate crisis and an extreme aggressive Turkey, all together is something I never remember. Apparently we made mistakes, obviously there are weaknesses. But the country is moving forward despite difficulties. Most of all, the economy is moving forward. And it is an economy that exports, invests, produces, and with the help of the huge resources that this government has secured - which is just beginning and entering the economy - opens the way for a better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u588	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Ljupe from New Democracy, and immediately after that is Mrs Alexopoulou. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u589	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are living at a time when emerging crises are emerging, turning states into management agencies for these crises. Pandemic, weather phenomena due to climate change, accuracy, inflation, threats of wars, hybrid threats, such as those at our borders. How does our Government answer all this? It responds with the institutional armour of the state, with the strengthening of its foreign and defence policy, with a multitude of foreign policy, the digitisation of the state, prudent economic policy and the proper management of public money, while supporting citizens and businesses. The aim is, among other things, to reduce unemployment and to develop with visible results, as we have heard from Mr Georgiadis, Mr Papathanassis, Mr Skylakakis. And here comes SYRIZA's proposal of distrust. The question is why now? A few weeks ago we had the same debate in the House, a debate on the budget, and the government had the full support of Parliament. The reasons for the proposal are not snow. It aims elsewhere, and many colleagues have pointed it out from the New Democracy. It aims at the inner-party opposition, the collapsing of the SYRIZA, because it is popularly accepting the hot breath of the Change Movement. It's a firework, it's done for communication reasons, as a mechanism for the impression of public opinion. Everyone knows that the government will reaffirm Parliament's confidence. This is the case when, in terms of opposition, there is no political reason for doing so, when there are no proposals and all these are made by micro-political criteria. What did SYRIZA claim in his motion of distrust? Firstly, that the government did not manage the pandemic properly, did not strengthen the health system and count a hundred victims of the coronary. Secondly, that he sold PPC and the DEDDIE, did not support society in a period of accuracy and appreciation that we are going through and, thirdly, that in the days of bad weather the Prime Minister and the ministers were hidden because of a failure to manage it. But what is the reality? The pandemic government has made a great effort at all levels. Fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and other staff in hospitals, six thousand new permanent intakes in health in 2022, a large increase in ICUs, intensive campaigns for information and promotion of vaccination, a solid, digitalised and easily accessible vaccination program, from the best in Europe, compulsory vaccination in health and the most vulnerable sixty age group, which certainly saved many of our fellow people and one of the largest analogue testing with free rapid and self-test. Instead, what attitude did SYRIZA take on pandemic? Without a clear position on the issue of vaccination, with differences in the locations of its officials, with significant legislative initiatives, such as compulsory vaccination of health and over sixty, he voted against the fines for fake certificates, free self-tests, compensation for additional active newspapers to doctors, with the dissemination of false news, such as the fact that Greece is a champion in coronary deaths, when the truth is that we are on the European average. You take, gentlemen of SYRIZA, and measure individual periods when we know that peaking is not at the same time in each country. In any case, this issue is multifactorial, as was explained by Professor Janakis. It matters who we record as deaths by the coronary when our country uses the strictest system according to the names established by the World Health Organisation. Of course, the rate of vaccination in vulnerable ones, like the particular social conditions in each country, plays a major role. On the front of accuracy, you have baptized, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the international problem of Greek, when the Government was one of the first to recognize the problem and took immediate measures to support households and businesses. EUR 1.35 billion was given in 2021 and EUR 400 million in January 2022 and, above all, the government has assured that it will continue to support for as long as necessary. Thirdly, on the issue of recent bad weather, especially the Prime Minister not just disappeared, not just did he pretend that everything worked satisfactorily, but with a great deal of honesty and sense of responsibility, unique in our political times, acknowledged the mistakes made, recognised the shortcomings and malfunctions and committed itself to a different, more effective crisis management mechanism. Unfortunately, there are many cases where today's Census, when it was government, has unsuccessfully tried to convince the citizens that it did all right, even when we mourned dozens of victims. The government's qualitative difference in relation to the previous one is that today makes its self-criticism, recognizes the failures, when they exist, and works systematically for a better result. In these two-and-a-half years, the government has remained faithful to the implementation of its programme, despite the adverse circumstances, with a commitment to policies that ensure new development prospects for the country, after a five-year period of insecurity, recession and inefficiency. Government policy has strengthened citizens and businesses, with dozens of relief measures from tax and insurance obligations, with reductions in HPAI tax rates and insurance contributions, with EUR 43 billion in the midst of a pandemic to support citizens and businesses, with the necessary framework to reduce bureaucracy, to provide investment incentives and to open new horizons to the development of the country, with brave reforms in the area of digitisation, green growth, climate change. Households' income was significantly increased, unemployment declined, reaching 2010 level, and, respectively, employment increased. Red loans were significantly reduced. The Government of New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis have shown that in difficult circumstances they do not go away, they do not leave. They have an absolute consciousness of their role, face challenges, improve and work solely with the good of our country. The Greek people understand everything, they judge everything and will render the righteous when they are given the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u590	Thank you. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u591	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is 2.25 minutes after midnight, and I will say, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, without other ladies in Parliament. Since the transfer to date, as many times as a motion of censure was tabled, the first in 1987 all concerned serious issues. In 1988, Constantine Mitsotakis tabled a motion of censure on foreign policy issues to Andreas Papandreou. In 1989, again the New Democracy in PASOK for financial scandals. In 1996, Andreas Papandreou, as leader of the opposition officer now, tables a motion of distrust against the government of Constantine Mitsotakis, on the occasion of the dispute over the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In the same year, New Democracy tabled a motion of censure against the government, due to the country's inability to rule, given the disease of the then Prime Minister, Andreas Papandreou. In 2007, George Papandreou testifies, on the basis of Article 16 of the Constitution, for non-state universities. In 2008, again the President of PASOK, on the occasion of the insurance bill. In 2013, your Chief makes a motion of censure for the closure of the ERT. Other motions of censure have been made in these decades to finance ministers. We agreed or not, all the proposals were made for important political reasons, until January 2022, when SYRIZA is making a motion of censure because it was snowed or rather, not because it was snowed, but because he shived himself not to come out third. Do you really realize how little politicians you look before history? Unfortunately, you have succeeded, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You've been bankrupt, you've been politically bankrupt. Feel the breath of KINAL in your ear and you realize that you are a Dedicated Civilization on a runway. It is a hopeless move to concentrate political interest in an opposition registered to the public with numbers having the only privilege of being much worse than any failure of the government. We are not intimidated by any motion of censure, because we will not lose on Monday. You lose. We are talking to society every day, we are completely listening to its problems and needs. We have chosen the hard way to offer and not the easy one, the sterile attack and the insults. Ladies and gentlemen, in your motion of censure you have signed, you refer to three topics. You first put the pandemic and the impotence of the government to handle it, as you keep saying. Let us tell you once again, because either you can't see it or you can't just accept it. From the very first moment of the pandemic, the government, by imposing even lockdown, has tried to save time and strengthen the National Health System, which you have handed over to its black mess. No one can question that in such a short time he has achieved so many important things. The beds in intensive units of five hundred and fifty - seven have more than doubled, over three hundred. At the same time, military hospitals and all private sector units are being exploited. At the same time, the ESS was strengthened with an additional fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff. In particular, for areas facing increased pressure, private doctors were motivated and where there were insufficient preservatives for their services. It would, of course, make it easier for the micro-political perspective with which you are working everything to collapse. And yet, they did not collapse, because there was a plan, there was an organization and, of course, the huge work of doctors and nurses. All over Europe, opposition parties supported the governments in adopting measures to tackle the pandemic. They supported the attempt of persuasion for the vaccinations. The only sad exception is Alexis Tsipras, Paul Paulakis, SYRIZA. The second point you raise is an increase in energy and goods prices. You blame the government for lying to citizens that it is a temporary and global phenomenon. I'm sorry, have you been completely fighting international reality? Is it false that the Eurozone inflation a year ago, in January 2021, was 0.9% and is now 5%? Are the services of the European Union also lying? Is it false that US inflation has reached 7%? After the great material disorder caused in 2020 by the friction of the pandemic, Greece, having recovered more and fuller, faster than most European countries, the lost territory of the pandemic, on the front of the economy re-orbiting strong long-term growth and the benefits of it will be for all citizens. The dynamics are reflected in both the key macroeconomic figures and in the recognition of the changes in progress recorded by the Greek economy by partners, international institutions, rating houses and investors, thanks to the implementation of a prudent, methodical, reformative and perceptive fiscal policy. A policy which immediately supported short-term action to address the effects of the energy crisis and the resulting price increases with a total of EUR 1.35 billion in the last four months of 1921, to which additional EUR 400 million were added in January 1922, also covering businesses. Support which, as we have heard from the Minister responsible, will continue for as long as necessary. The government has been reducing citizens from high tax burdens, providing incentives for investment and employment, reducing unemployment, which has decreased by over 3% since 2019, helped to start economic activity by a significant number of businesses. '21 opened up more businesses and closed less. Ultimately, support the middle class and the weak layers, a class that you in SYRIZA tried with a heartfelt effort to disappear. The New Democracy is aware of growth as a stimulus to the economy, and that is why it has moved forward with structural changes, with the promotion of privatization and the exploitation of public property. We have also committed and implemented tax incentives to further increase electronic transactions, to provide an increased deduction for expenditure on green economy, energy, digitisation and tax incentives for growth of businesses. In the project part, we have developed the available European funds, with a peak of the Recovery and Resilience Fund and the new NSRF, totalling about 80 billion euros by 2027. Already the first forty-eight projects have joined the Fund, projects that improve the everyday life and quality of citizens, as they concern areas such as health, research, innovation, the improvement of public services, tackling the climate crisis, energy, infrastructure, transport, justice, culture, agri-food and others. I would like to address Mr Tsipras specifically here and to Achaea. The President of SYRIZA is also a MP for Achaias and days ago, when the concession of the Patras-Pyrgos motorway finally came to the vote, he voted "present", as did his party. He didn't have the political courage to say that he was wrong and not allow any more victims of asphalt. The government for which you tabled a motion of censure starts this project after so many decades, a work of breath and security for the region and for the whole of western Greece. Mr. Tsipras voted against it, because he was not politically attracted. Although a engineer does not really want construction sites and jobs and the development of the area, he only wants to be blown up and miserable by supporters of local government, if something reminds you of it. You're pleased that there's no regularity. You are pleased with disaster and problems. That's what your own executives say. Mrs Ahchioglu confessed. It is logical to suggest solutions, as imposed by your constitutional role. Instead, after a bad time, you choose to play your party games. Ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the SYRIZA motion of censure is elsewhere. It's the Chief's concern about the second place in the elections in 2023. You're hitting Mitsotakis to get Androulakis. Afraid and shaking the third place, as well as your quantitative starting point, 3%. And finally, a little comment on KINAL. Ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, PASOK, you remind me of the joke with the childcare officer going to court asking for his courtesy and refreshing because he's an orphan. When someone has a graduation for boats, it doesn't mean he knows how to hold the rudder on the big boats. And Greece is a great boat for your micropolitical and micro-political and ideological hands. Ladies and gentlemen, my support for the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy, the government of major reforms and major projects, is given. Let us turn the back to his darkness yesterday and let the Greeks see only the light of the future and the prospect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u592	Thank you. Mr. Apostleus has the floor from SYRIZA. Next, Mr. Baraliakos from New Democracy and Mr. Arvanitidis from the Change Movement. Mr. Spankee, I see you have insomnia and you're here to attend the meeting by morning. Very important and very positive, you know, this. Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u593	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, I would expect more substantial answers, for example, with the management of the crisis. The answer to "climate change" or the view that "acting elsewhere" is not an answer. As I would expect there to be some information about what was discussed in this critical coordination meeting, about the measures to be taken and to be served to deal with the crisis. It seems that you do not do it because you cannot accept that your executives can produce such a result. What result? An absolute chaos, tragic and dangerous to the citizens of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government serves a purpose, the placement at the centre of the communication centre of a single authority, of the Prime Minister, of a Prime Minister who is missing, protected from criticism, in which, if ever, he reacts as infallible and ultimately politically irresponsible. The apologies of Mr Mitsotakis do not come from a sense of responsibility for political responsibility, because the apology of a Prime Minister is a political one. Especially in the management of the pandemic, the situation is tragic, with dozens of dead each day and impounded outside intensive care units, while the calls by doctors for the support of the ESS have now become voices of desperation. It is a great thorn for Mr. Mitsotakis' image that he had the Lytra - Tsiodra study in his hands. At the same time, desperate and financially impoverished parents bear huge costs and students stack in frozen schools. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers do not forget Hatzidakis' anti-fungal legislation, nor do the parents of children who suffer from COVID an amendment to reduce their earnings. Precision has established consumers and you cannot control the food market when you could, for example, limit the immunity of cartels and supermarkets with the mandatory payment of sixty days that we have introduced for fresh and vulnerable products. The government's universal failure is now unprecedented. I heard the Minister for Rural Development yesterday mentioning inaccurate rural issues. Because of time, I will only stand by one, the top, the management of Community funds. In 2015, we received ECU 1.3 billion. The Commission's proposal is based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women in matters of social security and equal treatment. counting for cooperatives. Not only did we stop them, but after our efforts, they have already been returned to the state budget of 500 million - more will be returned - and counting has been reduced to half. At the same time, of course, we also put order in the time of payments. What now exists in the area of payments? A chaos that might put our country on new adventures in terms of payments. And since, ladies and gentlemen, the images are the ones that are concerned with communicators, no one forgets the image of the lady who breaks up watching the fire burn her house in Gouves in northern Evia. No one forgets the image of the busmen in the old Poseidon Avenue coming out almost swimming so they don't drown. No one forgets the immobilized vehicles on the Attica Road and the desperation of drivers in Katechaki, the Mediterranean Sea, the Marathon. When my homeland, northern Evia, was completely destroyed, Mr. Mitsotakis visited the Satisfy four months later, to attend the repetition of a festival that for the third time had been organized in the region, directed by Mr. Beno. Not only did the Prime Minister meet the inhabitants, but he did not feel the need to deal with their great problem, to ensure their survival. In fact, he was accompanied by half the Ministerial Council, from which, on fire days, no one was found to answer the thundering calls of the President of Central Greece "we're burning, you left us", while at the same time the Chief of the Fire Service unregulatedly stated that he did not follow the fire front very much in Evia. What more brutally stripped of any political sensitivity than this assumption? One minute, Mr President, as I think you have given the others. Especially in Evia, the irrationality and chaos were such that, while the fire began in conditions of complete apnea and easy accessibility, it arrived after nine days to extinguish the sea, across the island from Evia to the Aegean again, devouring as little as it had left. And, unfortunately, the inability of the so-called state of service to the next crises has been fully confirmed. The well-advertised state-of-the-art mechanism was not only ready, but it collapsed miserably. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, every time our country faces a problem, it is characterised as an unprecedented crisis, which is due to climate change and cannot be dealt with in any way. Where we have arrived, the only unprecedented is the unbearable daily life to which your Government has submitted your Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u594	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u595	I shall conclude, Mr President, but first of all, for the good of the Greek people, all the years of your administration must end with the end of the Mitsotakis government.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u596	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Xenophonta Baraliakos and then Mr. Arvanitidis will speak. We still have six speakers, including Mr Baraliaku. Here you go, Mr. Baraliaco, have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u597	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras has chosen to table a motion of censure against the government, in substance resorting to a despair motion which makes it more obvious that the Civic Opposition is in a state of panic following the results of the last polls, both for SYRIZA and for Mr Tsipras himself. Honestly, however, this may be the first party leader in the world asking for elections to achieve the descent of his party from the second place to the third. But, ladies and gentlemen, fear of your coming elections is not the only cause of this move. It is your permanent tactic and opposition strategy to exploit all kinds of tension and crisis, because that is where your skills reach, and at this point all your arguments are exhausted. You're not surprised. That's what you know, that's what you're doing. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to stand up and respond to the issues raised by the Chief of Staff Response one by one. Yes, there have been problems in dealing with recent bad weather and the Prime Minister first recognised them. We, ladies and gentlemen, always speak frankly. We didn't come out to set up some communication show with make-up conferences in the ashes of a disaster. We didn't do press conferences like Mr. Janakopoulos's with the SYRIZA ministers, who allegedly showed signs of arson arson by satellites, deceiving the world. First of all, we recognise the mistakes, account for responsibilities, and we are already taking the necessary steps. On the other hand, that of the pandemic, I honestly wonder about the levels of your nerve when you have so far played the role of health sabotage at every opportunity. Evidently you were and you're against everything. I would remind you that SYRIZA did not vote for any of the government's seventeen initiatives to tackle the pandemic, not even the penalties for the movement of counterfeit certificates, nor of course the compulsory vaccination of health, by closing the eye on the negative ones once again. And while throughout Europe the parties of the opposition officer supported the governments in introducing measures to tackle the pandemic, SYRIZA was the brilliant exception. He did not vote for the law on the movement of qualified doctors to meet the needs of the ERC. He did not vote for the release of free self-test. He did not vote for the movement of medical staff to meet needs in regional hospitals, such as in my home country, in the Hospital of Katerina, nor, of course, the compensation for 24-hour newspapers and compensation for additional active newspapers. You have invested in failure to manage the pandemic and in social confusion, which you have caused at every opportunity. You have come, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, among other things, to give the government lessons about the national economy. I will tell you a few words that are unknown to you: reductions in taxes, protection of the middle class, investments. Under the constant burden of the pandemic, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proceeded with measures to support households and businesses of EUR 43 billion, while continuing its programme to reduce taxes and insurance contributions. Amongst other things, I would remind you of the medium-term reduction of HPAI by 22%, the reduction of the tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9% for incomes to EUR 10,000, the reduction of insurance contributions by one plus three units, the reduction of the tax rate for legal persons from 28% to 22%, the exemption from the private sector's contribution to solidarity of incomes for 2021 and 2022, the reduction of the tax advance for natural and legal persons, the extension to 2021 of the exemption for agricultural parcels from the supplementary HPAI. In addition, we reduced VAT on animal feed, transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, the tourist package, gyms and dance schools. Despite the falsehoods of the Chief of Police Reflexion, the government's reflexes were also immediately about the effects of the energy crisis and the resulting price increases, with measures totalling EUR 1,35 billion in the last quarter of 2021 and 400 million that come to be added in January 2022, covering businesses, and it is certain that we will continue as much as necessary. We supported the middle class that you tried to destroy, but also the weak strata. We were reducing citizens from high tax burdens and motivating investment and employment. Our country has globally strengthened its credibility and prestige and as a result of great, global colossians and so many others are investing in our country to create many, good, well-paid jobs. Because for us growth means jobs. You have divided the people as much as anyone else. You are the representatives of "or we finish them or we're over" and we're the government that's changing the country with all the Greeks. We continue unequivocally in the path of returning the real economy to normal working rates, with targeted support for households and businesses. I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. We continue to support society from the effects of the international energy crisis and the retention of inflationary pressures. We are continuing to implement a prudent fiscal policy in the direction of further reductions in taxes and social security contributions, but also our country's active involvement, as took place in the last two and a half years, in the structure of a new European economic architecture and in the rational use of the available European funds, with a peak of the Recovery and Resilience Fund and the new NSRF, of around EUR 80 billion by 2027. In closing, I could not thank you for the opportunity you gave us for three consecutive days to highlight the work of two and a half years of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Greece moves forward, evolves and wins every day on the international track the battle for all Greeks and all Greek women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u598	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr George Arvanitides from the Change Movement, followed by Mr Yoyakas. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u599	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek political history recorded the position of the President of Parliament yesterday as another anti-democratic blow to your resignation. You may have had that attitude left out of the past. Once we remember that the trees were voting, then they took the ballots from Parliament. Now you did not want us to meet as a parliamentary group in Parliament. So we're telling you that we don't get enough of these terrains and the revolts of the government of the 'perfects'. You will always find us with society in front of you conservative choices and always with responsible positions and proposals. You are a government that spends the grim reality only with wishes and proclaims on all three hot issues you manage in pandemic, economy and accuracy. You told us that the large wave of pandemic passed and that inflation and energy increases are transient. But the reality is falsifying your government's wishes everywhere. The Government of the New Republic has proved to be ineffective and below the circumstances. It was unable to predict and prepare better on no front, and that unfortunately costs everyone. He was more interested in fast communication success story than to establish a normality of green transition and resilience. He did not choose to bravely support the ESS and primary care. He did not choose to change the country's productive model. It did not choose to strengthen consumers and businesses for a permanent reduction in energy costs. The disappointing results of these choices are seen and experienced by the citizen every day. In pandemic, hard indicators show our country in a bad position, despite strict restrictive measures. Someone has to answer from the government. How do you respond to the marker deaths per one million in which we claim the first pan-European one? 43 billion have been spent on the economy, as you say, to support the market. Unfortunately, they produced the lowest results. Of course the debt went to 200%. As Mr. Skokakis said, it was not from the money that came out and directed us to be more careful in our proposals. It's one of the money we borrowed and fired the debt. In energy accuracy, where to begin with about the wrong choices and responsibilities? The government was raped to announce in 2019 a defoliation-extended plan. Her choice was to set up a so-called green account, changing dependence on lignite with dependence on imported gas. He defied the labels we made on energy security and price change. The current increase in energy prices is not due to the green transition, but to your choices, to the government's choices. So when we had two and a half years ago in order to develop renewable energy sources, with energy communities, with roof photovoltaics, with small energy projects, your government did not promote it. It did not promote small projects by many producers. He preferred to give space and time to the large in order to make large projects, with continuous changes in market rules. However, large projects also have a long time to grow and are delayed, so we have left behind in the necessary energy mix with the economic RES that had to be developed. On the basis of this choice, there has been an increase in the participation of gas in more than 50% of electricity production. It was your choice, wasn't it? Why does Mr. Skoplakis inform us of gas prices? You have, unfortunately, led the Greek society and the Greek economy there, in these accounts, and now we are running to find resources to subsidise gas, with the electricity bills being tripled and quadrupled within a year. Your government has led Greek businesses and households from the age of red loans to the age of red electricity accounts, and this will be a brake - and we will see - on social cohesion and on the development of 2022. The Greek society and the economy are unfortunately suffering from the government's choices and paying for it very expensively. Alternatives existed if you had political will and substantial support for society and the owners, instead of energy providers. If the government had made available EUR 1.4 billion of subsidies to produce Greek households their own energy today, more than half a million citizens would get away with it. They would have reduced their bill by 50% a year for thirty years. It does not, however, choose and we have entered a vicious cycle of energy subsidies, which look like a bottomless barrel. At the same time, it makes it difficult for the owners of photovoltaic roofs, with an additional contribution of 6%, and makes it incomprehensible for young people to invest in this direction. What the New Democracy People's Wing calls "solar capitalism" does not exist and we see a vertical fall in the applications of small photovoltaics for 2021. We are talking about energy democracy, which will open up the energy system to small and make them self-producers. The transition to a green economy and a resilient Greece is not an opportunity to enrich "logue", ladies and gentlemen of the government. It's an existential necessity. And this green transition to resilience must be fair, with its benefits distributed throughout Greek society. The EUR 70 billion you say and say again, coming to the country in the next few years, can really change the economy and life of the Greeks. I am standing on an example of recent bad weather. In the Recovery Fund, the government gives 100m euros for subjugation. Why isn't this amount more? With EUR 500 million we would have solved the problem and the citizens would not have lived every time in the theories, which you anticipate that we will have, and then stay out of power in business and households for days. We want to use the resources of the Recovery Fund to reduce social inequalities and make Greece green and durable. Ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy and SYRIZA are struggling and fighting for the worst government in post-multi-population. Both parties are lowering the bar down, but you're both going down. The Greek people will remember you both as bad governments. At the same time, PASOK is reminiscent of us as a credible, alternative government power. And the more people try to identify the right with the triumphs and us with the disasters, the more reality will disguise them and the popular intelligence and empathy will rise. As the New Democracy repeats its sad story, leading the country and the citizens to an economic and social crisis, both our date with history will fill us with responsibility and seriousness. And this responsibility and seriousness obliges us to continue to distrust this government and its policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr. Arvanitides. And we will continue with Mr. Yoyaka. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u601	Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is around 3:00 at dawn, now we do not know where we are addressing the mornings or the evenings. Several citizens would have expected the Opposition after the events of the last few days had caused another political debate, at the heart of which would have been how the civil protection system could be improved in our country, how better coordination between central government, regions, municipalities and private individuals, perhaps even about how to clarify and concentrate responsibilities, because this is one of the aims of the state that is so mocky for those who do not know. Therefore, instead of such a debate, which would be useful to everyone, the Qualified Opposition sought another flag of opportunity in the news. Impossible to create its own agenda, written every time by random events, not to say what it proposes or what it would do, but only to denounce, which may satisfy the core of the SYRIZA audience, but certainly not the citizens, who are asking for much more than a party that aspires to rule again. It would be interesting for citizens to read the text of the motion of censure. In this, first of all, the same, arbitrary and misleading conclusions about pandemic and accuracy are repeated. The government is told that it has not strengthened the ESS when four and a half thousand doctors, nurses and other staff have been recruited, when more than seven hundred new IMI beds have been created, compared with a hundred thirty beds that took place twice - and puts the SYRIZA - ANEL coup d'état, when it operates an exemplary mass vaccination programme, which has seconded the flattering comments of our European partners, so that 70% of the general population and 85% of adults are vaccinated today, when we are the first country in the European Union in diagnostic tests by the ERC and the public structures of the ERC. Of course, every loss of human life counts and is a blow. We are now aware that the overwhelming proportion of deaths concerns elderly people with severely underlying illnesses, that seven out of ten deaths come from unvaccinated over sixty years of age. There are also intentionally and misleading factors that increase mortality in our country, such as ageing population, cohabitation of older people with younger ones, intra-societal infections. These, ladies and gentlemen, are fine letters in the critique of the Unpopulation for the pandemic, as it is fine letters that SYRIZA himself, with public statements by his and his President, has questioned the vaccination project and has undermined the anti-infectious views. Even more irresponsible and conscientious are what are written in the motion of censure, in fact. You have doubts, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that the revaluations are an international phenomenon. Is what all the experts say, and does the citizen who has no special knowledge of it, even understand it as a communal slogan? How can we seriously discuss such opinions? What is not disputed is the EUR 1.35 billion that the government has taken over the last four months of 2021, to which another EUR 400 million has been added in January 2022, in order to alleviate the effects of this international energy crisis and its appreciations. And it will continue to support business and households for as long as needed. On the issue of the bad weather and the reaction of the state mechanism, we said at the outset, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that people expect proposals from you, not complaints. The government recognised errors and failures and accepted their responsibilities. He apologized to the citizens who were troubled and even to our President Mrs Mitsotakis's mouth. He showed the will to learn to get better. It is, however, a pity that, in his criticism of civil protection, SYRIZA is forgetting. It forgets that in natural disasters there are years of problems and structural weaknesses in public administration. He forgets how he managed the fires in Eastern Attica, the floods in Mandra twice and in Magula, that in Matti initially undermined the extent and the human cost of destruction, that no minister resigned, that government officials were hiding for days. Unfortunately, however, for SYRIZA, what the citizens want to forget. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on some of the phrases contained in the proposal for distrust of Officerial Responsibility: the establishment of the Prime Minister and his Ministers, the governance without limits and conditions, the governance of inadequate and self-interesting decisions that do not correspond to the needs of society. So I wondered, as I imagine many of them, how can those who tried to control television media with anti-constitutional laws and 'friends' businessmen as canalarchs, those who provoked the reaction of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors about their interventions in the functioning of justice and the reaction of ERT journalists to control information and those who, if they were to govern again, would like to check the joints of power? How can they blame the government for decisions that do not correspond to the needs of society, which put twenty-nine new taxes and contributions, cut pensions and brought capital control? Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. How can those who, with their choices, made 15 billion poorer bank shareholders and increased the debts of households and businesses by at least 50 billion euros? Really, ladies and gentlemen, with such a recent past, how can one speak with these designations? Seems SYRIZA bets on oblivion, bets on the regularity of ripe fruit and suits himself to a blind complaint game. However, 2022 is not 2012, because since then SYRIZA has been weighed and measured and found incomplete. This has been judged by Greek society in 2013. And this crisis will be confirmed by its elected representatives tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u602	Mr Mouraite has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u603	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and colleagues of the New Democracy that you are here, it is really regrettable at critical times and when you really want to defend certain policies, of course, trying to hide the responsibilities, the revolts, the mistakes and the political bankruptcy, that you are, unfortunately, in charge of the trembling and social automation. It's really sad. Many of my colleagues in the New Democracy have done so, but I think the Prime Minister in his brief speech today has really ended it. I have lived through the murder fires in Elias since 2004 and in 2007, these tragic moments we have all experienced. I would like to remind all Members who are in the Chamber that no party, no party, no party has managed and has taken advantage of those moments to oppose its opponent. And two days now, in the face of the poverty of your arguments, you keep talking about Eye and Mandra and nothing else. It is truly regrettable that every day in the country we have an Eye on your own responsibility, that you come here with this impediment and that the Prime Minister speaks to us about morals and styles. Who? The Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of arrogance, the Prime Minister of the regime. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years now we are experiencing the continuing collapse of the state of staff, the state of staff that is finally proved to be a great joke of the Mitsotakis administration. And because I mentioned before 2007, I would like to remind you that for many years again a great joke of your own party was the re-establishment of the state. Do you remember that? Do you remember the re-establishment of the state, which led an entire country to bankruptcy? Do you remember this re-establishment, which in that tragic disaster in Elias found the 'wind'? It's not bad to remember these at some point. So dissolution and decay. This is the reality today, at all levels, such as pandemics, energy price explosions and dishonesty, the fall in the real income of citizens, the escalation of public debt, for which no one is speaking, not even the relevant ministers who are here today, but also the management of extreme weather events. You failed everything! Always a few, always responsible, even with the snow fiasco. And what did we live? And well, all right, I understand the anxiety of Members who have to defend even unbelievable ones many times. However, it is not possible for the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber today without shame and eloquence, and all he was interested in was how he would give the other responsibilities and to his Government. And here comes the following question: why is the apologies? Why did you apologize? Did any of you explain a reason, a mistake that could have happened? No one at all! And, of course, responsibility again for the citizens on the "Attica Odos", in Patolis, in the municipalities, in the meteorologists and not in the government. Nowhere in the bucket! Only lies and, of course, a hypocritical and polluting 'I'm sorry'. In the management of the pandemic, you have not just failed, but our country, ladies and gentlemen, claims a sad first among the countries with most of the dead. In these two and a half years you have broken up the ESS and public education, but you have abandoned the region. At this point, I would like to mention two examples from my prefecture. In my prefecture, we have two hospitals, Agrinio and Messology, which you have abandoned for two and a half years. We've lost our fellow humans, our friends! Some survived luck. For two and a half years we have been asking for the gaps to be covered, two and a half years we have been asking for the support of hospitals and we have not been heard of anything. You're turning your back on all the requests. Your only concern for the hospitals in the Prefecture of Aetolakarannia is how you put in the contractors for safekeeping and cleanliness. Of course, a second tragic example with regard to the joke of the state of service - I see Mr Papathanassis, my patriot, who is aware of the issue - is that the bridge of the Gospel has collapsed. If we hadn't had Ionia Street, Greece would have been cut two! Forty-five days have passed, and so far there is no responsible information about what is going on and about what the design is, apart from a consultation and various proposals that fall on the table. The region, however, and the world around the bridge spends difficult times in its work, in its transport, in everything. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, as I said before, you have failed everything! You are the excellent technocrats of the executive state, who really manage to sink and fail to all the great goals you have set. Of course, I want to close with the final state, with this much-advertised innovation for the new architecture of the state, which proved to be a little bit of a Maximos group. You have created a group of people who make their projects without transparency and without any accountability. You've actually transferred four, five portfolios of ministers and ministers, and you're presenting this as a perfect state. If that's possible! And that's not what we're talking about. They're being heard in the House, the streets say it, the world booms. In the face of this harsh reality that you have shaped, I think it is now clear that a new reality is being formed in which we want to take the lead. Mr President, I would just like a minute. You have abandoned the people of focus with your policy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the people of production, research and innovation. You leave small and medium-sized enterprises - and I am glad that the Minister is here - outside the financing of the Recovery Fund. Lead to Greek sport in its absolute depreciation and complete containering. Of course, what you do not give up is lies and propaganda. You have the mediation system, polling companies that can really support you. You make the mistake of thinking that consciences are bought when with 2,000 euros compensation, when with 50 GB gift to young people and when with 150 euros and cards of freedom. You're persecuting journalists and threatening them with imprisonment. Democracy in the passage fifty years later! You have submerged the country in fear, insecurity and despair. For all these reasons, therefore, we have tabled the motion of censure against your Government. As a Qualified Opposition, we have the despair and anger of the majority to turn it into a power of political change. We call on all the progressive, all democratic forces to give the'residents' to the battle to free the country from the Mitsotakis regime. We call on all democratic citizens to join our struggle in order to restore social justice and democracy in our country. We call on all the healthy forces of the country to join forces in the effort to create a new, wide, social alliance for the emergence of a new progressive government with SYRIZA. - Progressive Alliance, with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. It's time for you to resign, it's time to leave, to breathe the place! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u604	We continue with Mr Stefanade from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u605	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure by SYRIZA raises a question. In the end, has the Government of New Democracy not done any positive work in any area? You know, in physiology and neurophysiology there is a fundamental law "all or none". What does it mean? It means that a stimulus causes cell stimulation or has no performance, and that depends on the intensity of the stimulus. The stimulus with which the opposition is trying to level the entire work of the government is that size. Can it overthrow, deceive, undermine the work of the government? Here is the question and we ask ourselves. The answer can, of course, only be given through recording the work, since science always speaks with data and not with assumptions, with desire and expectations. What's the data? There is action and production of positive work in all areas. For example, by speeding up, I mention the successful digitisation of the state with the gov.gr project and the possibility of using a thousand two hundred digital services. Attributes, in 2018, citizens' digital transactions with the public amounted to eight million eight hundred thousand. In 2020, the figure reached ninety-four million and 2021 over five hundred million. Of course, I cannot help talking about the final state, an emblematic law, which, after all these years, puts an institutional order in the functioning of the state and in transparency. We also have a successful foreign policy. For the first time Greece has achieved excellent agreements through diplomacy in alliances in energy and armaments systems. Today our country for the first time is not only a calculated but a leading partner in the European Union, NATO, but also a key player in the Eastern Mediterranean. I would simply remind you of the defence agreements with France, the United States and Israel, with the Gulf countries. Final distillate, final result was the monumental historical agreement with friend France for the supply of modern war material. As far as the economy is concerned, despite the major problems, companies have withstand, and Greece's position has improved in international indicators of classification and competitiveness. The Ministers for Development have provided undeniably evidence showing the position of our country and, above all, the prospect. Through the Recovery Fund, our country has the opportunity and the opportunity to move towards growth with much faster steps. Furthermore, on the basis of the European Commission's forecasts, Greece will pan-Europeanly present the largest growths in investment and exports over the next two years. In parallel to growth, the government is a good one for the problems that society faces from the energy crisis and its consequences. The Minister, Mr Georgiadis, quoted the international environment of unforeseen rises in energy sources, whether it relates to oil or natural gas. In education, of course, radical changes in the educational process have been carried out, such as tele-education, recruitment of staff, class at higher education institutions, and an upcoming law, subversive, for the modernisation of universities. In the health sector, an area where opposition is constantly criticising, what are the facts? The government has managed to double the number of intensive therapy beds in time. A very successful universal vaccination programme was carried out and through targeted and successful campaigns Greece nowadays is in the mean of vaccination of the adult population of the European Union. Approximately 84% of adults are vaccinated. It is also worth noting that our country was one of the first to obtain vaccines. Of course, we should not forget that the Greek Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, with the first idea established the European Digital Certificate COVID. Some fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff were hired and a large programme of upgrading the technological and structural equipment of the ESS hospitals, as well as addressing the disparities between the centre and the region, is being developed. Finally, private doctors were motivated to help deal with pandemic. One question is asked here: Is it a success to deal with pandemic? The answer, in my opinion, is yes, if one takes into account the state of the national health system which the present government has received and which is trying to deal with it in the middle of an unprecedented pandemic. In civil protection, a very topical issue that recently concerns society and concerns the effectiveness of civil protection, I would like to point out that the New Democracy Government first established an autonomous Ministry of Civil Protection, taking into account the problem arising from successive natural disasters. Political Protection at national and local level has done a very important job, resulting in the protection of human lives, property and forest wealth and the environment, of course. In particular, at local level, I have a direct knowledge of the huge work done in the Samos Prefecture, with the timely treatment of fires and fast reflexes in relief after the catastrophic earthquake. Mr Triantopoulos, the Minister, has direct knowledge and a great contribution to this. As for the last snowfall, such a long snowfall in such a short time, I would say that there have been problems and possibly malfunctioning. The Prime Minister himself, Mr. Mitsotakis, pointed it out. However, it is very positive that we have not mourned human victims and that must not be degraded and silenced. The best organization, as announced by the Prime Minister, will in future make civil protection services more effective. In any case, however, ladies and gentlemen, it must be borne in mind that it is extremely difficult to have prepared services such as in the northern countries of Europe or in the northern states of the United States or Canada in a Mediterranean country such as ours, with very rare phenomena. Karl Young, one of the greatest researchers of the twentieth - century human soul, had said that all that bothers us in others can lead us to understand ourselves. Perhaps the opposition should take that into account. In closing and answering the question I raised at the outset, if the stimulus used by the opposition is capable of undermining and destroying the work of the government, the answer is obviously not. It is clear that I am voting against the motion of censure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u606	Thank you. Today, the process with Mr Papanastassis from the Communist Party of Greece is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course we are voting against the New Democracy government. We are voting against its policy at every level and in every area. We are voting against the government pogroms of anti-grassroots measures and capitalist restructurings. We are voting against the policy of the bourgeoisie, whose core is the theft of the sweat of the people and the tradition of wealth that it produces in business groups. We are voting against the dozens of anti-popular bills of government of the New Democracy, which found ground from the previous ones to run its anti-popular policy. I am saying all this because we are at the same time revealing the position of SYRIZA, which is screaming for the inappropriate government, while at the same time denying its policy. One by one of the measures recorded in the government's assets was taken by the government from where SYRIZA and SYRIZA left them from where PASOK took the cart. For example, we have seen the policy on health and SYRIZA and the New Democracy. Is it or is it not at the heart of the policy of both private health care premiums at the expense of the respective public sector? The answer is yes, they are identical to the European Union's directives, they are both embraced. Did you both agree to the supposed assessment of public health units? Yes or no? You agreed. The same is true of strengthening private economic criteria in the functioning of the public health system, partnership with the private sector. All of you, however, do not see the ranches, you do not see the shortages in intensive care units beds, you do not see the coronary staff who have been tired, or the sub-funding of hospitals, or the thousands of chronic patients, the tragically depriving of access even to the most elementary tests and treatments. The Vice-President of the New Democracy Party as Minister for Health recently confirmed this position - that he closed seven hospitals, insisting that they were well closed because they did not need it. Today it was charming because monopolistic groups and large businesses come and invest in Greece. But why are they coming? Why did you drunken every job right, because you broke the pay, because you removed from the workers the right to protest, to claim self-evident. Of course they will. It is shameful, however, that you come in front of the workers of EUR 100, EUR 300 and EUR 300 for these reasons. Is it a fact, yes or no, the legislative incorporation of the demands of BSE and other employers' associations when you were a government? This is for SYRIZA. BSE the day the government changed from SYRIZA to New Democracy came out and gave SYRIZA credit. She already gave it to us: 70% you covered us. We hope the rest of New Democracy will be covered. Was the request for BSE not the abolition of Sunday holidays, the increase in unpaid overtime, the adjustment of working time with ten hours of work, the further reduction of insurance contributions, the freezing of minimum wages at degrading levels? Wasn't that BSE claims? You fulfilled everything. Natural catastrophes: They are all to blame except for the government that is every time. And, of course, I am not confined to the government alone in the New Democracy. Climate change is the veiler, not the inability of each government, but their class choices. Thousands of people affected by the summer fires in Evia, Peloponnese and elsewhere, from the floods in Thessaly, Iato-Carnania, from the earthquakes in Crete. They're all waiting in vain for help to get back on their feet. And let's not keep the PASOK and SYRIZA running around. You've all put your back on these disgraceful things. The people do not forget the crimes of 'Rikomex', 'Faran' and other death traps in the 1999 earthquake and the dozens of similar crimes. It does not forget the shipwreck of Samina, the floods, forest and urban fires, which left behind the dead and incalculable damage. Parentia, Peloponnese, Hot, Penteli, Matty. That list is not complete. It moves one toe to another, covering up the real responsibilities, which are essentially the choices of the urban state. So let go of the convenient ping pong and the knots. None of you raised a word for full compensation for disasters. Two days ago, the Minister for Rural Development went to Astakos of Atolokarnania and talked about rope in the house of the hanged man. He talked about developing livestock farming. Who? In a dragon applause, fart farmers who were encircling him and the rest of the farmers were crying their destiny. And it comes today that SYRIZA allegedly reproachs the government, but effectively leaving its policy unpredictable. And that's why? Because it's just the same as the New Democracy policy. It does not miss an opportunity, of course, to present its own availability to the necessary change in the urban parties. Isn't that what your bourgeois democracy is? It submits its sincere intentions to serve as a government the same "development" objectives of capital. He is trying to give more guarantees of social cohesion, with the promise of the intimate integration of the people's strata into this context. Whether you like it, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, or not, you have consented to the central choices of capital. Did you or did you propose to a Joint Minister for Health, to set up a Intergroup Committee to make use of the assistance of the Recovery Fund, to reach a consensus with the New Democracy, the PASOK, the Mer25, the Greek Solution in the naval requirements for disposal annually over 4 billion? Let's see NATO in Ukraine today what it's doing. He's prepping business, but it's a memorial of foreign steaks. Except that these gums will be "blooded" and you will all have backed up for this, because you consent to strengthening this wolf alliance with the sweat of Greek workers and not with these pharanonic armament programs to defend borders and sovereign rights. As you also consented to the military out on the road to cover up your political processions to entice the businessmen of the "Attica Road", who are treasured. But you all heard them from the soldiers themselves. The Pan-Hellenic Federation of Military Forces came out and told you that their work within an unreasonable government bazaar - and I quote it just as they made it - is evading the entire mission and role of the Armed Forces and that it is obviously transferring several messages to anyone who moves forward to a change of behaviour and that both the issues of riders being decapitated and the cleaning of this road are purely private interests, are the responsibility of the concessionaire, i.e. the private limited company "ATIC WORD". You were told by the soldiers themselves that you were delinquents. Previously you've made them scoundrels - other governments, your previous governments were - when you take them down to the strikes of the workers, the cleanliness of the municipalities. For our part, we say clearly that only the people can save the people, and that will be through the expression of solidarity and the organisation of the struggle for full recovery from disasters, for compensation to 100% of all damages, for projects and infrastructures to protect the people. Because today's barbarism is not a one-way street, no matter how much you impart. Workers, the people, will fight to protect their health, their lives in the difficult conditions of the pandemic, with the Communist Party of Greece on the front line, to develop modern terms of work and pay. They will prosecute and dissuade organisedly against your legislative abominations, both of the Government of New Democracy and of the former governments. It is this indiscipline that will give an answer to government bans and repression. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that the voice of thousands of workers and young people, as to date, will continue to cry with or without masks, claiming their fair demands. That's our deposit for the fights coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u608	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-29-S1-commons.u609	With the consent of the House at 3.42' the sitting is closed for Sunday 30 January 2022 at 9 a.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, discussion and vote on the motion of censure against the government, tabled by the Chief of Staff and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
