ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] There will be an Anniversary Memorial Day of Holocaust Witnesses and heroes from the Holocaust by the chairman of the meeting and representatives of the parliamentary groups, who are Mr. Bukoros, Mrs. Gerovasili, Mrs. Likolis, Mr. Delis, Mrs. Athanasios and Mrs. Bakada. The parties' representatives will speak for five minutes each. "Where there is hope, there is life. It fills us with fresh courage and makes us strong again." With these wonderful words from Anna Frank's calendar, we will be honoring this year's International Day of Remembrance for the Victims of Holocaust, a painful milestone that inspires unexpected courage and strength, while at the same time teaching everything we must protect in the future. Seventy-seven years ago on January 27, 1945, the last act of the drama in Auschwitz was played, with the final end of the largest concentration and extermination camp of the Nazi regime. However, the beginning had already been made since the 1920s, with the first anti-Semitism explosions in Europe. In the next few decades, Germany would emerge into a basic stadium of interracial hatred, for it has dealt with the Jewish tribe, morally depriving it of all its fundamental rights and degrading it to an ego of the state's subjects. In time systematic restrictions on education, science and work gave way to mass pogroms, pillaging, disasters and persecutions. From there, at the beginning of the war, we have come to the implementation of the creepy final solution, the so-called 'Hebrew' issue. Massacres, expulsions, torture, forced works, concentration camps, Auschwitz, Belzek, Madanek, Sobibour, Trenblinka and so many others. The disastrous balance sheet. Only in Poland where the world’s largest Jewish community is recorded, three million souls were killed. Greece has mourned over 70% of its Jewish population, as did the Netherlands, Yugoslavia, Hungary, while Norway, Belgium, the Soviet Union and France with Italy. Inside this zombie a million children lost their lives. A witness to their sacrifice and a symbol of Holocaust became a girl, Anna, hidden in the attic of the well-known back home in Amsterdam, who in two years managed to fit all the hopes and dreams of the world in a small calendar. Although she lived in terror to a first person and suffered from the cruelty of war and persecution, the young Jewish girl never ceased to believe in the man and his potential. I believe that all people are good at the bottom of the line, but that is exactly what the phrase 'but nonetheless, I believe that all people are good' shows. The tireless faith and optimism for a future with open hearts and hands united. For all of us, this is a valuable lesson, an incorruptible truth that works over time in the course of history. Especially for us Greeks, and especially this year, which will be a hundred years from the Asia Minor Destroying another disgraceful page in the history of humankind, a atrocity inspired by Adolf Hitler's idol, Kemal Ataturk, is unfortunately a common place that death, uprooting and refugee remains a sad common denominator for humanity. That is why in today's memory, but also every day since our lives, we must honor our victims and be exemplified by their sacrifice, strongly resist all forms of violence and intolerance, defend the righteous of our people with respect and wisdom, honor and remember. That is why we should always keep in mind the lessons of history and should have in our heart the words of a little Jew who said that "it is wonderful to have no need to wait for a moment before it starts to improve the world." Thank you. [[Applause]] We'll proceed with Mr. Bukouros Christos for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the term 'holocaust' means the extermination of the six million Jews in Europe. Extermination, genocide, a planned attempt to extinct an entire people. The Greek Parliament, with its unanimous decision of 3218 since 2004, and later with the year 31 of 2005, establishes January 27 as a day of remembrance and honor of the witnesses and heroes of the Holocaust of the Greek Jews. In the same year the United Nations General Assembly introduced 27 January as a corresponding international day. It was January 27, 1945, when the allied troops and in this case the Soviets first arrived at Auschwitz Birkenau and found themselves in front of the unthinkable, in front of the freaky, in front of the inspiring. About seven, eight thousand people, so many had left there, shadows of themselves, some tens of thousands more had moved inside Germany to other camps to be later located by other allied forces. This horror that faced allied troops, facing these hangars remains a spot in human history. Greek Hebrewism paid a heavy blood tax, 86% of Greek communities were lost in the Holocaust. In prosecutions, executions, working battalions, concentration camps, 86%. The community of Thessaloniki paid an even heavier price. However, there were, in the context of the generalized indifference with which this organized extermination of an entire people and some brilliant examples of humanity, braveness and solidarity in Greece have unfortunately been addressed. The most characteristic of all was that of Zakynthos, where 100% of the members of the Jewish community were rescued. When the German commander of the island asked the local authorities to list the names of the Jewish inhabitants of the island, he received a list of only two names. The list was written Metropolitan Chrysostom and Mayor Carer. By bravery these two Zakynthos leaders literally suggested their breasts, offered their own life and managed to save the entire community. Another glorious example is that of the commune of Volos, for which, as a result of Volos and Magnesia, I am very proud. Then German Consul Shepherd, learning about the arrest plan for the Jews of the city, informed Metropolitan Joachim immediately and an escape plan was organised, mainly to Pelion. There were too many Voliots involved in its implementation. As a result, most of the eighty sixty members of the community were rescued. Only a hundred and fifty were lost, those who did not believe in the upcoming danger and those who could not move, who were all lost. Loss reached 26% for Volos community. Much smaller than the other Greek communities. Earlier, ladies and gentlemen, Hebrew Hellenism - and I will conclude this - had taken part in all national struggles. The first Greek officer to fall on the Albanian front, during the Greek-Albanian Epic, Mardecai Frizas - anti-colonial colonel then - with bravery and self-renunciation, on his horse literally, but also Buena Sarfati initially member of the EESC and then of the EAM and later of the fugitive to Palestine. The Holocaust, ladies and gentlemen, has tested the limits of human logic. He snuggled her, overrun her, humiliated her like human nature. People were also human beings, they weren't monsters, they weren't machines, they were people who worked the way we all know. People were victims too. They've been removed from their right to life. As a result, by declaring the due tribute here today from the Greek Parliament, we are constantly asking for reasonableness, braveness and solidarity, in particular, when historical conditions demand it, so that we never live again in a holocaust, never again Nazism. Their memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. The Secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mrs Olga Gerovasili, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It has already been said that 27 January has been established since 2005 with the UN resolution as the day of memory of the Holocaust victims, given that the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, the most emblematic of the six camps of the "final solution", the plan for the total extermination of the Jews and the enforcement of the new order, was released. There was the emblematic because there was executed about one million of the six million Jewish Holocaust victims. In Greece, beyond the dates of the displacement of Jewish communities established locally, the 27th has already been established since 2004 as a day of memory. The Jewish communities of Greece, who were sometimes bailing for life, paid the heavy price for the sick nazi plans. It is estimated that the losses of the Jewish community of Thessaloniki touch 94% of its population. In my city of Arta three hundred and fifty two Jews were arrested by the nazis on March 24, 1944, hence the corresponding day is locally honored. They were driven to concentration camps and from there in Auschwitz. They came back and survived a few. Today we are not just standing in the unscrupulous brutality and the atrocity of fascism, as has been said by the historic Mrs Odette Baron - Vassilis, Auschwitz must be put into symbolic memory against any prejudice, any xenophobia, any racism. The memory of Auschwitz, of course, is not offended when all victims of racism are emblematically affected. On the contrary, only then finds her full meaning. And let us not forget what led to the historic marginal event of the Holocaust. Let no pseudo-scientific racism, intolerance, the manic speech of power, the propaganda tactics against the inner enemy, who in conditions of economic crisis have devoured the monster of fascism. Even today, even after the rise and fall of the Golden Dawn phenomenon, hate rhetoric, intolerance, xenophobia, racism are still here. And if, as the Israeli Ambassador said in his previous speech, the Holocaust was the world's moral bankruptcy, let us be vigilant about what is now recognised after the Nuremberg trial as war crimes, crimes against humanity and their causes. The collective memory must remain unclean, as the claims of the Greeks remain for vindication and for the German allowances which have been substantiated in the relevant report by the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee, adopted by the Greek Parliament on 17 April 2019. Today we honor the memory of the victims of fascism and Nazi atrocities. But the fight for universal values, for freedom, democracy, justice, equality, solidarity, the fight against racism and intolerance is lasting, is everyday and we are all concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. The Secretary of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mrs Liikanen, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a god I should beg to forgive him. This phrase on the lips of a common man would be excitement. On the lips, however, a Jew witness was the shocking expression of an unspeakable crime. This phrase was found engraved on a wall of Auschwitz's Columbia and belongs to one of the millions of detainees in prison. The holocaust of the Jewish populations of the old continent by the Nazi occupation forces is the most painful and heated crime, not only of this conflict, but at least of all modern and modern world history. The extermination of six million people who did not bring weapons is a constant reminder that when logic sleeps, the monsters wake up. This unprecedented project was not merely a culmination of the perverse perception of some of the race's purity and the superiority of a particular nation. It was a crime of unprecedented execution with unique accuracy and design, which could not be successfully completed without the superiority of the German industry. Today, with the potential offered by technology, we have broad and easy access to numerous historical documentaries, literary works and films so that none and none of us can any longer claim to have heard or known. The concentration camps are today places of memory, but also schools of life that teach where they really are capable of leading both irrational obsession with ideas of racial superiority and totalitarianism. Israeli intellectuals and writer Michal Govrin long ago gave an interview very interesting topic more timely than ever: How should we truly today mention the Holocaust? How can we approach and manage one of the most erratic systemic crimes in the history of mankind? How should we pass the lesson truth in the next generations? Above all, why is there really a revival of anti-Semitism in Europe with cases even in our country, with shapes of Nazis, with nostalgic nostalgics and forces of darkness that have come to this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, a sacred place of democracy and the civilisation? How do we today manage this crime against humanity when there are still people questioning that it happened at the same time as Jews surviving in deep old age, now that dementia understands all consciousness, their unconscious only kept the number engraved in hand and died like those 71135? How to prevent the murder of memory and to make the Holocaust an individual and collective debt of all generations a holocaust? How can we prevent the incubation of the serpent's egg that is moving and is being stirred again to sow hatred, evil, inhumanity and crime? One of Auschwitz’s survivors posed the following questions to the world. How will my children live after that? How will they walk in life? How will they be able to collide with the people who have arrested and executed an unprecedented atrocious atrocity? How can they trust man again, his good nature, God? How will they continue to live by carrying this history of the human race? How to erase numbers and words of horror from the soul? How can they wipe the image out of their eyes? How can they justify and not hate? How to carry on with their transgressive and disfellowshipped souls from human pain and from the unanswered why? Michal Govin was clear. Let us not remember the Holocaust as a doctrine of evil, but as many small stories of heroism and humanity. These are very important for the future of humankind, because they do not mention or recycle violence and victimisation alone, but they focus on overcoming, compassion and the value of human life. If those who survived wanted to leave the horror behind what should followers do? We must remember the uprising in the Warsaw Ghetto. The rebels had no chance of winning, but they thought they were their debt to human dignity. This, then, is the important example of talking about hangings all the time, because the guilt created by remembrance for the camps can even lead to denial or even repulse. The Jewish population of all of Greece records a huge offer in our country. She's creative, she's friendly. The Jewish population of my city, Larissa, is an important part of our local history with enormous cultural, social and economic supply over the years of the Middle Ages. Today I testify to the fact that without our neighbors, my city would not be the one that is. Today they are one of the most vibrant parts of the city with participation in social events, with creators, with inspirations, with scholars, with artists, with views, with positions and initiatives. The Jews are our special friends, our own people, an integral part of life and heart. I am particularly pleased that our children are now taught the history of the Holocaust and the action of these brave Greeks against the action of the Nazi forces and I will always be struggling at every moment so that the state can continue to take initiatives to preserve this great historical memory. We keep within us the memories of the Greek Jews, who were walking for the hangars singing our national anthem to feel courage, to refer to the sacred homeland and to die proud. Our duty to keep the memory of the victims, the heroes, the braves, because as one other prisoner wrote in the wall of the testimony Auschwitz: "If you forget about it, you will live again." Mi vida. Never again!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs. Liikali. Mr Ioannis Delis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, with great respect for the JRC, it honours the dead of the Jewish Holocaust who have witnessed the ladder there, on the ladder of tears, a holocaust which is an integral part of the Holocaust of the people during the second world imperialist war and all the Nazi atrocities committed during it. The millions of the dead of the Jewish people stand next to the twenty million victims of the Soviet people, to the hundreds of thousands of deaths of the rebellious movements throughout Europe who fought with a hand against the fascist axis, standing on the side of the dead Holocausts in Candan, Kalavitas, Distom, at the Cutaneous of Arta, at all the lengths and backs of our country, at the thousands executed of the uprising of Drama, the camp of Paul Mela in Thessaloniki, Heidari, Caesar and so many other places of testimony and sacrifice. The JRC also has a historic duty to honour the dead of the Jewish Holocaust, after he has taken the lead in organising resistance against the three-fold fascist occupation, making up the guide and main donor of EAM, ELAS, ELAN, EPAON, National Solidarity and other Israeli organisations, offering thousands of its members and executives in the struggle for the liberation of the country. Many Greek Jews acceded during the triple fascist occupation of the Israeli organizations, organisations that warmly supported all Greek Jews and tried to rescue them from the criminal activity of the occupation authorities and their local associates. It is no coincidence that the fewer losses of Greek Jews during the war occurred in the region of Thessaly. As in Chalkida, Agrinio, Zakynthos and elsewhere the communists through the action of EAM-ELAS organized their rescue after the conspiracy of fascist Italy in 1943 and before the Italian military forces were replaced by the German forces. The archival of Volos Moses Peshach stated attributes a few years later: "The world history of Europeanism and the newer history of Europeanism will mention among others the important fact of the rescue of the Jews of Greece who fled with the protection of ELAS and have given it assistance and support during the brutal persecution of the Germans against the barbarians. We will never forget...» - Moses Peshach mentions - "...this great benefit was gained by the heroic national army of ELAS and the supporters of the other Liberation organizations of EAM as well as the protector of the victims of fascism and mother of the poor National Solidarity, the peaceful national militia, ENON, the hope of this nation and all our true Greek compatriots." Ladies and gentlemen, the memory of the victims of the Jewish Holocaust, like all the victims of the Holocaust of the people, is alive. She's alive and she teaches. It teaches the younger generations in what atrocities the competition of capitalist states and imperialist alliances can lead to the distribution of markets and spheres of influence. That is why the best price in memory of the millions of deaths is the modern struggle for the decommissioning of the country by imperialist alliances and intra-imperialist competition, the struggle finally to overthrow the capitalist power that gives them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. The current procedure is exclusively a parliamentary procedure, so on behalf of the Bureau I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mrs Makri, who is present at the headquarters of the government. Mrs Maria Athanasios is now called for in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good month. The Holocaust of the Jews is the greatest group crime in the history of humanity and at the same time the biggest crime in the 20th century. His sad uniqueness in history does not only come from the large number of victims who have disappeared in the name of an insane racial ideology. His uniqueness in World History lies in the conception, premeditation, method, execution. The extermination of the Jews was not just a series of diversions and violence, it was not a sudden persecution, it had no political causes, it was not about territorial claims, no. The “final solution” of the Jewish issue was a fully organized project, implemented on the basis of the cold calculation at the request of an official state and of the members of a people who proclaimed themselves as the “cleanest racial nation” in the history of culture. The phrase of Primo Levi who survived Auschwitz is typical: “The monsters exist, but they are too little to be dangerous. The most dangerous are the simplest officials, willing to believe and act without asking anything." The Holocaust was characterised by the efficient and systematic industrial-scale effort to collect and murder as many victims as possible, using all the resources and technology available in the Nazi state. It is estimated that only in extermination camps were killed by rifles, forced labor, hanging and poisonous gases of about three million Jews. The total of Jews killed by the rise of the Nazi party in power until its collapse amounts to about six million. Nazi extermination practices have not only been exhausted in the Jews. Their victims were all those considered anti-social elements, among them Serbs, Polish, Russian, communists, homosexuals, Roma, Athinaguans, mentally ill and physically disabled, intellectuals and political activists, people who were termed "state heirs" and many others. These people were lost in concentration camps and mass executions, according to the extensive archives held by Nazis themselves, texts and photographs, according to testimony from survivors and eyewitnesses, as well as the statistics of Nazi-occupied countries. A crime that has spread an endless cloud of grief and horror, which human mind so far cannot elect. In Greece we had one of the largest Jewish loss rates. Thousands of Greek Jews, women and men, workers and peaceful familymen, dynamic entrepreneurs and creators, our compatriots have fallen victim to insanity. Forty - six thousand Thessalonians were taken to concentration camps. Only one thousand nine hundred and fifty returned. The inhuman machine of Nazism managed to cut off the long course of the community, which had this place as a native and as a home and which played a leading role in the social, economic, intellectual and political life of our country. It is found that at no other point in Europe has Christian citizens tried so hard to prevent the fate of our Jewish brothers and prevent their mission to concentration camps. On this day we unite, to remember one of the most appalling crimes of our time, the systematic murder in the Holocaust of six million Jewish men, women and children, and millions of others from the Nazis and their partners. We pledge that we will not allow nazi ideas and behaviour that manifest violent extremism to prevail. We'll never forget. We promise to tell their stories and honor them and be an example of them, because despite the atrocities that have suffered nothing, they have not been thrown away. They stood up, proclaimed, won, and made a difference, contrary to us who continue to progress with a plunged head. The lesson is that to fight and win, we must remember. We must remember the lesson of history and our duty. We have to understand that this starts with us. All of us have the power and responsibility to make a difference. The black anniversary of the Holocaust is about all Europeans, Jews, Greeks. It is a duty for all of us and an obligation to keep the historical memory alive, and above all, to teach to the next generation both the tragic events and the suffering caused by the acts of hatred, marginalisation and intolerance, but also the values of respect and freedom, which is our shield not to repeat the horrors of the past. At a troubled time such as today's health crisis, there is a risk that society will be trapped in dangerous atrocities and lead to social division, vaccinated and uninvasive. It must be wise to avoid any targeting and, in general, the policies of ghettoisation pretext to public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. We're going to close up with my colleague from Mera25, Mrs. Fotini Bakadima. I would remind you that on Thursday the House was lighted up at night in the colors decided and made in all the national parliaments and kept a minute's silence. With Mrs Bakadima the event is closed and at 11 a.m. the meeting on the bill will be opened, that is, a short break. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on 27 January 1945 the Red Army released Auschwitz, the largest concentration and extermination camp of the Nazi regime. Since then, this day has been the International Memorial Day for the Holocaust's victims and has been a constant reminder of the greatest crimes that have ever been committed in our history against humanity. Seventy-seven years later, the neonazi cultures unfortunately fall back into Europe. Racism, intolerance and extreme right again embrace under their dominant ideology. These poisonous ideas rewater the society that is targeting and spreading. Our struggle against this cruel and cruel face of fascism must be intensive and irresistible. We must never allow again the walls of hatred, concentration camps, physical and mental extermination, but also the ideas of inhumanity, along with those who indirectly or directly incubate the snake's egg to lift a head. It is a struggle that we must give him coordinates, organised, unresolved and in common. We do not forget the Nazi atrocities in defending human life, especially when we see the targeting of the other based on religion, gender, age, nationality, excellence, sexual orientation, and even economic situation exacerbate. We must and must strive to build and implement genuinely and clearly the protection and support frameworks, but also those mechanisms that will protect and justify the victims. We honor the victims by beating our heads up with respect and we do so effectively with our attitude and actions. We do it as we have a duty in future generations, we have a duty in the future of our societies to deliver them a world, a world society in which they can live free in the rule of law, focusing on the protection of human life and the defence of dignity. As I said, we owe it not only to the victims of the Holocaust who should continue to honour, like all other heroes, in the next generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u13	At this point we'll interrupt until 11:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle, articles and all - the three-day debate, I repeat - of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development Law - Greece Strong Development".
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u16	Would you like to take the floor, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA? Because I was about to call the MPs waiting to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u17	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u18	Mr Ragus, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. You realise that, obviously, then other parliamentary representatives will also speak, so it will go a little further backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u19	It is so serious, Mr President, that yesterday, which, not only in our opinion, has to speak to all parties and take a stand, but also to you personally. And I'll explain exactly what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u20	You want to take a little break, let me tell you something and start then?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u21	Yeah, as long as you're ready - if you're judging - you're gonna have to take the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u22	All right, let me handle it at first and then the parliamentary representatives will speak. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's sitting in Parliament was extremely depressing towards what the Greek people expect. The House, ladies and gentlemen, is not any place where we take the floor to say what we want and do what we want. There is constitutional freedom. Nowhere in the constitution for expression of opinion confers no right to unlimited. However, this is only about freedom and not about the unorganised conduct of the debates. So since the debates are being held under the Rules of Procedure, this Rules of Procedure, which protects us from becoming a body of voicers or a Speaker's Corner in a London park, where anyone who speaks and says what they want, ensures the unrestricted freedom of Members. The final responsibility for conducting the debates lies with the Bureau, which, as you know, is intergroup and there is a special Rule in the Rules of Procedure, which says that Members must comply with the Bureau's recommendations. Is it possible for Members to feel that the Bureau's suggestions are unfair to them? There is. How's that going to be solved? Again, the Rules of Procedure stipulate that this matter is resolved either by the continuation of dialogue and underlining, if necessary, an incorrect decision, by making an intervening issue, by making a motion of censure, or by bringing the matter to the Conference of Presidents, or by bringing it to the Conference of Presidents. What is not foreseen is that matters relating to the application of the Rules of Procedure, on which the Bureau has a final decision, should be dealt with in a way of self-justice and activism. Yesterday the Bureau removed the floor from Mr Polakis. Everyone is entitled to an opinion on this. But the Bureau has the final say. Instead of complying with the suggestion made by the Bureau and resorting to the means of parliamentary criticism, of criticism, of the decision taken at his expense, he was standing on this sacred step. There are two issues. One is the removal of the speech made by Mr Polakis from the Bureau, and the other is his behaviour which practically removed the floor from the other twenty colleagues who expected to speak. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait. The parliament since the 1875s when the principle of declared has been established has a final limit. The final limit of the House is the majority. The House's final sanctuary is the majority. Do we have a constitutional issue? The majority is decided. Do we have a question of reproach? The majority is decided. Do we have a question of breaking the Rules of Procedure? The majority is decided. Do we have a matter of disciplinary measures? The majority is decided. Can we here in Parliament by activism overthrow the majority principle? The majority is changed by someone we represent here, by the majority of the Greek people. No one else. We cannot go beyond the final sanctuary for resolving our differences, which is the majority principle of replacing it with other methods. Because the other methods testify to anti-democratic intentions, blackmail Parliament's image and smash it. I mean, wait a minute. What did you want to do if a Member does not come down from the Step? To be dragged out to both Greece and the world's public that this House is like Hong Kong or other third-world parliaments? Is that a picture? It's no different. If the majority is not satisfied, the one who will change the majority is not the representative of the people here but the one represented by us when the time comes. This majority shelter may obviously not like those who do not belong to the majority. That's why it's being applied successively, but it's not when you like her and when you don't have her to express yourself like that. So please, when someone feels that he is wrong, he can express it, his parliamentary representative can speak. There are parliamentary means of appealing, reproaching the sense or the conviction that someone is wrong. But he cannot feel that he was wronged to be misled by the sacred Step of the House. Yesterday I happened to be out of Athens, and, believe me, the image of a Parliament hanged by the good mood of a colleague who thought he might have been wrong, but prevented other colleagues from speaking with the occupation of the Step was the worst possible of the last two and a half years I have been chairing this Step. I would ask you, therefore, to have every right to consider the actions of the Bureau incorrectly. You have every right to insult them, to judge them, to criticise them, but you have no right to go beyond the limits, and to think that by means of methods of self-professionalism, by means of methods of dismantling Parliament's image, what you think has been wrong with the Bureau. Yesterday's sitting was adjourned and will continue today. It will continue from where it was interrupted. Mr. Paulakis will take the floor to speak on the bill. And I would like to ask that today's sitting be a practical correction of yesterday's unpleasant and appalling image, which first of all is sadness and sadness and dismissal of the Greek people from Parliament. I understand that there are citizens who have asked us to be much more stringent with Mr Polakis. There may be citizens who believe that we are wronging him. We're not to whisper opinions. We are to apply what is in place. And what is happening here is that, firstly, the MPs comply with the Bureau's suggestions, that if they feel that there are institutional and not activists to express it and that the final judge, the last limit, our final decision, is recourse to the majority. I wanted to say all this in order to clarify the position of the Bureau and ask, in particular, nowadays, for Parliamentary representatives will be given the floor, not politically, but for us to safeguard the last limits of Parliament which are its Rules of Procedure, which are the majority principle and which are compliance with the intergroup Presidency. Mr Raguss has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I must begin, ladies and gentlemen, by addressing you, Mr President, and expressing our deepest regret that you have chosen in this particular particular, decisive moment, not for the functioning of this House, but for the parliamentary and democracy in Greece, to say what you have said, by resorting to two tactics that do not primarily suit you, Mr President, but not even - and I would say - personally. It cannot be the elephant in Parliament and you can do what you do not see, Mr President. You cannot resort to falsification of the facts that all the Greek Parliament and the Greek people lived yesterday. You cannot have such ease to falsify the facts and not feel the need to talk about the "Elephant". Mr President, the elephant in this Parliament who came last night, and unfortunately you did not see to him that you were expelling him, is the unprecedented anti-democratic, anti-constitutional, coup d'état of the President last night to remove the floor from the Greek MP because he disagreed with what he said! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You were obliged, Mr President, to be President of the Greek Parliament and your term of office should not be marked by this unconstitutional and coup d'état behaviour with your colleagues, Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios. Let us hope - and I personally hope so, Mr President - that you correct this historic blow that you have done today, taking the floor again, then I mean. And I'm explaining. In accordance with Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, which analyses everything we say about 'appropriate and unparliamentary behaviour', which needs to be dealt with or even disciplinary measures by the Bureau or by Parliament, Mr Polakis's speech yesterday was inappropriate? Answer: No. Was it abusive? Answer: No. Find a word that you can classify either in the category of inappropriate expressions, or in the class of hybrid expressions, or in the category of slander expressions. So, was Mr. Paulakis insulting, then? Was he inappropriate under Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure? Absolutely not! [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Do not continue this parliamentary complaint, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u24	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u25	What was Mr Athanasios invoked yesterday many times, proving this claim that I am telling you and disguising what you were thrown out to say? One point was that Mr Paulakis was out of the question, in accordance with Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Athanasios did not invoke Rule 77 at one time. On a lasting and permanent basis, Article 66 has been invoked, saying that Mr Paulakis is out of the question. Why? Because he talked about 'NOVARTIS'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like to speak. I say it because I see the time. So what did Mr Athanasios say too many times? Refer to the Minutes. He said, "Come to the subject, Mr. Polakis. If you do not go into the matter or ask a timely question, I would remind you, because you are out of the question, I will remove the floor. I withdraw you to class." Disciplinary measures not because they are inappropriate, not because they are slandering or abusive, but because they are out of the question. 'I withdraw you to class'. The Bureau shall take a disciplinary measure. "Get in the bill" and I finally "remove you the floor". Did Mr Athanasios give the floor to another Member? No, Mr. President. Your report was inaccurate yesterday. Mr Athanasios did not give another MEP after Mr Polakis spokesman. Mr Paulakis therefore did not prevent the meeting from taking place and developing smoothly. What did Mr. Athanasios do? He interrupted the sitting to call on the President of Parliament and come to reproach! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is the President of Parliament here yesterday to impose reproach? Answer, ladies and gentlemen: No, it has not come. Practical reasons? Was he out of Athens? Out of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u26	Come on, ladies and gentlemen, we've had enough so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u27	Today, ladies and gentlemen, co-responsibility for this coup d'état, as it turns out, today the President of the Parliament has made reproach against Mr Polakis, yes or no? The answer is no! The absolute confirmation is, therefore, that one single reason why this really unacceptable scene was made yesterday in Parliament, one single reason, was the anti-institutional and unconstitutional behaviour of the President-in-Office and no one else. Was Mr. Paulakis out of the question? Let's get to the point. So, where he wanted to take us from yesterday the rightful logic of authoritarianism and censorship and a ban on freedom of expression, even within Parliament. Was it out of the question? If it were Mr. Paulakis out of the question, the previous speaker of the New Democracy, Mr. Ypsilantis, who spoke in detail about the case of NOVARTIS, would he also not be out of the question? Has Mr. Ypsilantis been interrupted by Mr. Athanasios? Answer: No. Have disciplinary measures been imposed, revocation of order and so on against Mr. Ypsilante, Mr. President? Answer: No. So, what do we have here? We have an extreme attempt to deprive a Member of his freedom of speech from the President-in-Office of the time that this has not been done for Mr Ypsilant, who is badly - not to leave any implied - would Mr Athanasios have done if he had removed the floor from Mr Ypsilante and obviously has not happened before in the Greek Parliament at least those who live here in decades to remove the reason why you are out of the question, on the basis of an article which, Mr President, says or does not say that written speeches are forbidden? On the basis of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr President of Parliament, a disciplinary measure has been imposed, the speech has been removed to a Member who comes here by written speech... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] have thousands of written speeches been made in violation of the Rules of Procedure in this authoritarian and anti-democratic sense and logic of Mr Athanasios all these years? Of course this has never been done and it is, of course, provided for by Article 66. But we're going to the most serious thing, ladies and gentlemen. Was Mr. Paulakis out of the question talking about 'NOVARTIS', with a minister, who, with the well-known provocation that characterizes him all the previous period, swinged the finger and said 'Come apologise to me', 'Come apologise to me'? Is ‘NOVARTIS’ irrelevant to the development bill? Answer, ladies and gentlemen, on the substance of the unacceptable logic of Athanasios, which the President of this House has unfortunately also adopted, the answer is that it is a very relevant matter! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is absolutely relevant for the development of a country that there are multinationals here who, in complaints, hate political staff to shape prices according to their own interests to distort competition. If the case and the scandal of the economic 'NOVARTIS', Mr Georgiadis, are not related to your bill, there is nothing more relevant. So Mr Paulakis, in substance, on a subject, like Mr Ypsilantes, on a subject, was speaking, Mr President of the House, not outside the subject. "NOVARTIS" is a scandal of the most extreme of its immorality, because it has been taken into the memorial, with the illegal increases, as has been shown by these illegal increases in drugs that were taking cancer patients, for the benefit of the multinationals. There is no more extreme and more immoral scandal than the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. And what internationally calls on business interests to do? To come investing in the country. Which country would they invest in? To what can anyone distort competition, violate laws, resort to discrimination against political persons, as does Mr Georgiadis himself in an interview with Swiss television has agreed, and remain unpunished only in Greece, while she is being punished in the United States of America? So, ladies and gentlemen, what was done yesterday is totally unjustified, but completely unacceptable. That is why you should not, Mr President, take this whole thing away from your back. There is also the question that has also been asked by us. Why do you make things so hard, Mr. Georgiadis? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u28	You mean a request for documents to be lodged.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, just to be precise. Why, Mr Georgiadis, do you not give the House today and, by extension, the publicity and the Greek people the act of archiving the case that has really troubled you over all these years? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here is Rhodes, behold and the Minutes of the House, Mr. Georgiadis. Bring to the House today, the Greek Parliament and the Greek people the act of archiving. Why did you only bring six pages?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u30	Bring her!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u31	Please, will Mr. Georgiadis speak and your questions can be resolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u32	So, ladies and gentlemen, what is the conclusion? The conclusion is that we had absolutely no violation of the Rules of Procedure yesterday, but what did we have? We had a violation of the Constitution, we had an infringement of Article 60 of the Constitution, which explicitly states that the freedom of the Members' will cannot be restricted. That is why it was coup d'état and unconstitutional or energy as a whole now. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is also true, in other words, that the reference to 'NOVARTIS' is not out of the question, firstly because, Mr President, you have not interrupted me for so long as I speak about 'NOVARTIS'. You have not taken me to the classroom for so long as I am talking about 'NOVARTIS'. You are not asking for disciplinary measures against me, because I am talking about 'NOVARTIS'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are now the absolute and up-to-date proof that what Mr Athanasios has done yesterday is a shameful one for our country's parliamentary times. And you know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that the SYRIZA Members, precisely because the question of 'NOVARTIS' is entirely consistent with the bill, will have in their place reports of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal and all that they involve in the development of a country, all these terrible and terrible events that have occurred in this scandal in our country. We therefore ask you, Mr President, to reject Mr Athanasios for his unconstitutional, coup d'état last night. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, Mr President, we ask you to deplore Mr Georgiadis, who, after Mrs Zaroulia of the Golden Dawn, was the next one yesterday who came here and recorded Parliament, and his meeting and colleagues as another Furthy TV by government! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And if what Mr Georgiadis did yesterday is not completely unparliamentary, Mr President, what else is it? So there is a whole question of democracy, ladies and gentlemen. Is this a personal matter of Mr. Athanasios? Obviously not. Here, from the Stepma, yesterday Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, was not the one who came here just the furs and the judge's spectacle, not just to question the presumption of innocence of journalists who are fighting, to reveal the truth about this scandal for years, but to judge them already? He condemned them, charged them with punishing them, in violation of the recent legislation, which provides that no one can violate the presumption of innocence, let alone an institution such as the Prime Minister's institution, but in fact it is questioning the very function of the rule of law in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u33	And the other one...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u34	Quiet, quiet! Don't interrupt. He's finishing his speech. It's already over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, for us and I think for the Greek people, the conclusion is now obvious, after everything that has been happening in and out of the House, unfortunately and within the House. There is a systematic attempt to terrorise anyone who has another opinion, who fights, so that this opinion can be passed on to the Greek people, learn, hear it, read it by the Greek people. There is a systematic effort to terrorise institutions, the main pillars of the functioning of our democratic culture. Terrors are terrorized, politicians are terrorized, journalists are terrorized, just as was the case in the old days of the Right, when George Papandreou had been forced to say that one is the way to the Greek people "Finally terrorise the terrorists! There is no other solution!" There's no other way for a people who's terrified of when they have a right across it...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u36	Is he threatening us?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u37	Shame on you! Are you threatening the Members of the New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u38	Shame, shame!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u39	Quiet, quiet! Everything will be heard. He'll get an answer, you'll see. He'll get an answer! That's what he wants. Come on, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u40	Answer, Mr President, make sure that you address history.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u41	Revolutionary, man.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u42	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u43	Come on, be quiet! He's heard and he'll answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u44	Keep thinking you can terrorize us! Keep thinking that you can violate the Constitution, the democratic rules of the Greek state! You're completely mistaken! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because in all phases of modern history there is a turning point, there is a limit, there's a red line, which you've been through a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u45	Come on, Mr. Ragosi, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u46	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u47	You've exceeded time, don't do the same now, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, first of all, when you are announcing...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u49	Come on! That's what they want! You'll see that everything will be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, we have been threatened with terrorism!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u51	I felt it and I'll answer it. Come on, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, you have decided to continue to be exposed. At the time when the speaker is interrupted, the Parliamentary Representative of the Officerial Representation by your colleagues in the New Democracy, instead of telling them to be quiet, you announce that I will get an answer! And that's what you think of as the institutional behaviour of the President of this House?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u53	Come on, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u54	A phrase in the Minutes too: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as long as the right hand will prove...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u55	Quiet, please! Last sentence and move on. You don't sound like a mask anyway. Come on, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u56	As long as the Right will not forget what it means right and it will revive the worst practices and perceptions of the state and the right-wing party in our country, so much the Greek people will not forget what it means right, it will not forget what "NOVARTIS" means, it will not forget what the hood scandal is that is in constant development in this place!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u57	I want the floor on personal grounds, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u58	Wait, quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u59	Since yesterday I've been reading communications that mention my name from the channels. I want to defend myself in Parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u60	It will be time for us to look at the personal details. Wait a minute, Mr. Highlands. I wanted to say something about the management carried out by the Bureau at the moment. You can barely cause hell, not provoke it. They're barely inflicted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] Wait! Your Parliamentary spokesman has been heard, and he has raised complaints against me personally. Objections will be answered by the other parties if they consider that they exist, but I have to take the floor. Hell will not come with references to heavy, hard phrases of the past, which we think can, with a thousand words, apply to today. Today the country and Parliament are governed democratically, freely administered, governed with respect for the rule of law and we will not turn neither Parliament nor the country's image into a so-called third-world dimension or a simulation dimension with which it has not been the case for many decades. There will hardly be a parliament or a country! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I have a serious disadvantage, apart from the fact that my mask tire has been cut off. The serious disadvantage is I can't pretend to be angry. That weakens my arguments. I cannot invoke splendid expressions or account for things that do not apply. I repeat, because I think, Mr Ragosi, that you did not understand me. There is a removal of speech, a matter. There is the occupation of Parliament's Step, another matter. And I want to hear Mr. Polakis before I speak again. Who told you that the occupation of the Step of Parliament is an act which - to use your rage for a while - does not constitute 'terrorism', a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the deep concept of parliamentaryism? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Just imagine if we could start talking the same thing. So imagine we started to say the same thing, especially those of us who have a rich vocabulary from the patron of aggressive determinations. Is that where we're going? It's easy to start this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u61	Turning off the microphone what is it? What is it to turn off the microphone? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u62	It's not gonna turn off the microphone. They'll all be heard here. It's not gonna turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u63	But you closed it yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u64	Quiet! The microphone was closed yesterday by a decision of the Bureau. Defense in this decision is not the occupation of the Step. There is a democratic defence, not a 'terrorist' defence, to imitate your words as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u65	Turn off the mic!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u66	Let's go down. And I'm telling you, the longest you can rock. Hell of the House, you won't. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] After the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, who has been heard for a long time, is invited to Vima, such as all the Parliamentary Representatives - and you, Mrs Liikali, immediately after - the Parliamentary Representative of New Democracy Mr Brutsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u67	Mr. President... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u68	It was heard, recorded and there will be a response, but now the parliamentary representative, Mr Ypsilanti, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding at Step by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ragosi, who has asked for all his time to take over his speech, for an intervention which he had to do with an event which the President of the Parliament has analysed, but I shall also be here. In attending Mr Ragosi I was able in many of what he said to have a debate, as it is now taking place. But, Mr Ragosisi, at the closure of your speech you have fallen into a serious misconduct and the misconduct you have suffered was that you insulted the New Democracy party, the party that brought democracy to our place, the party that put our country in the Constitution, the New Democracy's resignation, which we are all Greeks proud to have brought democracy, institutions and their functioning here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is extremely insulting not only for this wing of this Parliament, today's MPs, but for the political system in the country, to insult the party that restored democracy, which operated democracy and institutions. That's a serious offense. As far as your placement is concerned with the information you have put in your speech, there is a contradiction. Ladies and gentlemen, I am serving this House by representing the Cyclades Prefecture with the people's vote in our Parliamentary Republic for fourteen years. I was one of those who I thought and believe that the Parliamentary Republic is the civility of ethos and decency, it is the civility that has an essential element, the need to respect it. By whom, mostly? Of course, from the citizens. But, above all, of those who represent Parliament, by their own institutions. That is the reality of the functioning of our democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, because SYRIZA's position and the reproach against the New Democracy and the function of yesterday's Bureau was unjust as it is unacceptable, I have to say that the New Democracy over all these years, but over all these years, has proved in practice in this House, here in this House, that it fully respects the democratic institutions, that it fully respects Parliament's procedure, that it is always in favour of dialogue, that it respects Parliament's procedures, with which it goes. It has been proved in practice and New Democracy has been through since 1974. And this Parliament has experienced difficult times. However, no New Democracy MEP and never this party called 'New Democracy' has circumvented these parliamentary procedures. We have shown this, therefore, in practice that we individually respect the parliamentary procedure. Because if the parliamentary institutions do not respect it, then democracy is really inconvenienced. What did we see yesterday? Is Parliament's picture yesterday something that was simply depressing, Mr President of Parliament, that you said? Oh, no. Was it hideous? Oh, no. It was unacceptable. And it was unacceptable, because this picture we have seen in the House yesterday and I have been watching it and I am insulting all of us as parliamentarians. It offends the parliamentary procedure and citizens - to be sure - by following this image feel disgraceful about the functioning of the Parliament itself. Do we feel often as parliamentarians that we are offended? Multiple times. A lot of times in the process here from here, the Step is a dispute between a speaker and a President-in-Office on matters and the speech and issues concerning the process of placement and time of placement. Is there any weapons of parliament that the Member or a party can react when they see that they are affected or feel unfair? Of course, there are guns. Parliament's Rules of Procedure do. Topical and urgent debate is the motion of censure against the Bureau, or issues relating to Parliament's representative on behalf of the other party or on staff or on many other issues which the Rules of Procedure of this House discuss and which give us weapons to react, but always within Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Is the occupation of the Step of Parliament within the Rules of Procedure within the framework of Parliament's Rules of Procedure? No way. The occupation of the House, Mr Polakis, escapes the parliamentary customs of culture and respect for institutional procedures. So that was unprecedented and unacceptable, and this must be condemned. Even if one believes that one is right and is affected within it, because the Bureau is wrong in dealing with this injustice not to monitor a logic of behaviour that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but the parliamentary procedure provides for a framework in which the person who feels wrong can react. I therefore appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that it is a common component of all the views of the whole House - that what happened yesterday offended us as a parliamentary procedure. The picture we have seen here was appalling and what we all have to wish for is such images never to be repeated. In conclusion, I will make a recommendation to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman Mr Ragonis on his position: to be very careful when they talk about New Democracy and respect for institutions and democracy. This fact - I repeat - has shown that it respects the institutions. The supreme institution is the institution of justice, which this party has always had too high. It cannot be associated, Mr Ragosi, 'NOVARTIS' with development law. As much as you want to link a top draft, which is the next step for our country, a great development effort, development law is not linked to 'NOVARTIS', but this is an incidental issue, which I think has been understood by everyone. I shall now close, ladies and gentlemen, as follows: President Tassoulus has so far, with his great speech, in his democratic conduct, shown to all these two and a half years that he is a President who, above all, puts the interest in the functioning of the institutions, is a President who speaks with all the parties, is a President who has voted in favour of the principle of parliamentary procedure and so far has had the name of the impeccable one of all. It is therefore a mistake to treat the President and the Bureau. The Bureau of Parliament, with its President, has demonstrated for two and a half years that it respects everyone and everyone in this process. He is a President who honors us and represents us all. So, while continuing with what the President of Parliament has said, I will close with his encouragement and his wish that such events should never be repeated again, that we do not see unacceptable phenomena which insult us all, but the parliamentary procedure and the wish to continue the process in a smooth manner and that we all learn a lesson, that behaviour with such a picture is unacceptable and condemnable, even if we feel that we are right. Our point of view is that we do not find it with behaviour which is contrary to the parliamentary procedure. We are right to find it when we respect the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u70	We also thank the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Giannis Vroutzis. It is now called in Stepma on behalf of the Change Movement by Mrs Evangelia Liikolis, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I deplore the events of last night, the regret of our resignation, but I am not staying in this human and parliamentary Parliament. Politics we denounce you for the drunken polarization you're trying to do. It's clear now. The Government and the Civic Opposition in Parliament is your strategic goal of politicising, splitting, costing and rallying your audiences, to which you obviously feel you have a problem. But you are inferior to circumstances, you are inferior to your debt and you are inferior to your parliamentary duty. The picture is tragic in Parliament. I will not say 'your image'. I will say 'our image', because we are part of Parliament and we are fatally reflecting all this in our own party and in the political system and in the confidence that no one has in our political system and in the hideous image that you have created, your double. Last night you reminded of times that dominated the slow, profanity, controversy, acidity, insult, personal blows 'under the waist'. You two are the physicists and moralists of his parliamentary practice "become "beyond" and "save". Between you and me, we hear under the masks. One calls "trabucos" and the other says "tunkers". So you think we can go down the road of democracy? You brought the sidewalk and the margin back to the fore. Where? Have you wondered? In the area where, ladies and gentlemen, he is a sovereign educator for the citizens, he is the flagship of political thought, the core of political life, but you do not care. The play is only played. Toxicity has been flooded by Parliament. Just yesterday? Oh, no. Three days now, what have we lived for? Aren't you the protagonists who yelled at each other, who we lived on the one side of the entire parliamentary group coming and being taken care of how well it was in bad weather, with the world sighing and the Prime Minister saying "we made it all perfect" and invoke the Rafalis and the New Democracy mark and seal and answer, under the circumstances, the Civic Anti-Civilisation with the Furthian narrative? Here the world is burning and the Furthiotis account was the one you found to promote to the forefront of your struggle as a Dedicated Opposition to that government that has screwed up. But you didn't just confine yourself to that, but you extended it. The "bravos", the "hot", the applause, two armies standing, two opponents standing, two enemies standing, with Parliament filling from your jaws, jaws of war, acidity in the foul and social media partying you from morning till night. You learn the margarita, too. What is it, really, that one is ruined and "the sweater is ripped off" and another is swallowed and cannot understand why? Come on, de! Why, really? Put the video on, ladies and gentlemen, and enjoy yourself. Then you will really understand why all this is going on. It's not enough that's happening in here, but you're still doing sirial's out at the Incubator, for example, where even the gypsy underwear found cubic titles on the newspaper headlines. Bravo! Congratulations! That's nice! And, of course, to cover Parliament's decency, we say and throw tons the next day that 'you know, he may not mean it, he said something else, and I did not hear that and that too. Yesterday's confrontation between the President of Parliament and Mr Polakis was one of the very unfortunate, difficult times of parliamentary practice, condemned in all its appearances. We say that in this incredible situation created by the President of the Greek Parliament and the speaker should at least have, Mr President, with a feeling of self-restraint, restraining the image, because in the weighing we always have to get into what is really more important, the show and the winning of the impressions or what we are emitting out and the revulsion that we are creating in the world. We are, therefore, firmly declaring our clear distance from this picture today. We are more convinced of stepping up our struggles against this image and returning to normality, as we understand it. We know who the elephant is in Parliament. The elephant in this House is the practices of the dilemma which you do not allow Parliament to breathe democratically, to express the groups, to create, to give their political stigma, to give ideas, to testify, to compose, to unite where necessary. You are unparalleled, you are divisive, because that is what serves your armies, your strategy and your methods. To conclude, Mr President, the image of polarization and undisciplined and unadulterated attacks has also been aimed at leaving us behind in the last few days. I am not only referring to your unfortunate decision not to grant the Chamber to our parliamentary group. I have placed myself on this issue, with respect for your face, but with a direct opposition to the decision you have taken. Even the Prime Minister from this Step attempted unscrupulous assault on us, on our political path, on faces of our party who only pride themselves in being on our site, but also on the Greek political scene. And he arrived today in the Civic Opposition, after he was asked and did not find out who the elephant is in Parliament, in a small mouth and lips to enter big names and great slogans. George Papandreou and Andreas Papandreou can enter your own no. The "people don't forget what it means right" to other lips can enter, on your own no, in lips consistently along the way, into lips that lifted the weight of the country's rescue, democracy, our political scene, and that's why we'll continue to fight. Already the sweater is ripped out and the nakedness of your arguments begins to appear. Unfortunately, we see your concern, we share it, but with coolness and restraint we move forward first for home and for the people. We will only serve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much for the intervention. I obviously accepted criticism, but it's criticism. I won't say that he's terrorizing me or that she's a terrorist for criticizing me. But because there has been a phrase, and I wanted a little bit to soften the spirits, because the New Democracy colleagues have risen up, terrorism is to put bombs in houses, to break up with bats. Terrorism is not intimidated. Terrorism is punished and imprisoned. The political phrases of the past concern the past. And I can tell you a phrase from the great Napoleon. That won't make me a big Napoleon.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u73	You are the President of Parliament and not a representative of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u74	Sure. That is why I spoke about the great Napoleon and not about someone in the New Democracy. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I won't use all this time. I will speak very little, because the JRC in over a hundred years of its presence has seen too many things. These today only caricatures are and are not worthy, much more to deal with such issues. There is, of course, one rule, regardless of the attitude of each party to the Rules of Procedure. But this regulation cannot be applied selectively. And we have examples of selective application. Nor, of course, will it lead to a blockade of expression, a guidance to expression, to censorship and much more to obstruct the placement of each Member. Secondly, we do not adopt as JRC the view that everyone can say what they want, but we say that everyone is responsible for what they are saying. Thirdly, it cannot be much longer for any position to be exploited to set up a meaningless and misfavorable fight, a show for communication and only reasons. The reasons for the communication are to cover up the substance of the agreement and the situation, and much more so when this bad-looking show is repetitive. This is not the first time of Mr. Polakis' whispering with Mr. Georgiadis. Last night was also a scheduled show, because that was a scheduled show. Since the morning it was written, not to say from the last day, the next new show. However, this was planned yesterday's show, not an excuse for the President's attitude, which sparked the situation and not only yesterday, but gave rise to a continuation today, to continue today a cowardice on a draft law, the development plan, with which the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the Change Movement agree. And it is a bill that is deeply anti-grassy, because it takes money from the many and the poor to give it to the few. It is this agreement that they want to cover with the ongoing cohort, a cohort that is not about the situation our people are experiencing every day and for which New Democracy and SYRIZA are co-responsible and the Change Movement about the huge problems that are accumulated every day. With this cockfighting, they only seek to entangle popular indignation into a false diplomaty in order to cover their symphony with the anti-popular policies that are being pursued. After all, they are all the tested parties, the New Democracy today as a government with anti-Folish politics, SYRIZA as a previous government and today Opposition that follows and believes the Change Movement at the same time. The more that will increase, Mr President, is a given, the more there will be agreement on the strategic choices of capital. From this point of view, all the people have to do is turn their backs on these poor shows and intervene decisively, organizing their struggle to overthrow this situation. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopou. On behalf of the Greek Solution, Parliamentary spokesman Konstantinos Hetas, who comes to Stepma, speaks on behalf of the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are indeed all unrepentant, all in the Bureau and the Greek MPs and Greek women. New Democracy, therefore, Mr President, which we lived through yesterday and we will analyse exactly what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u78	Will you run out of the twelfth?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u79	I don't know. What the Rules of Procedure say, which we are trampling him anyway, and we are applying him a la carte. What does the Rules of Procedure say? Because we'll talk about the Rules of Procedure today. Whatever you want. New Democracy and SYRIZA, then, in the context of the truly micro-partying of this selfishness that possesses us, you trigger the climate every day and you have a purpose, how you will assemble your fans, how you will assemble your party audience. At the same time, of course, you are setting up these fights - and this is the outrageous one - we are given the opportunity - every time they become such - to strip you politically, by communicating with the Greeks and Greeks to show them how hypocritical you are and how few are to govern this country. Yesterday and today you've been overtaken by yourself. While fighting for them, to show how interested you are in meaningless, in all the greats, you agree and we will prove it afterwards. And you know, Mr President - it is Parliament's image; - we are two and a half years in here, and I think that the Greek Solution, from the last official, executives, colleagues, MPs, to its President, is another example of behaviour, function, labour, respect for regulations in everything, and so we will continue to work because we have a sacred duty towards those who have voted for us. But you're all hypocrites. You take advantage of everything - everything! - for micro-political benefits, from the very small ones, you will reach the Constitution to exploit everything, the Rules of the Parliament! Mr President, you said before that the Bureau is intergroup. I regret to say that there have been many times when the Bureau's behaviour was not a intergroup, and it was a party, and I say it with regret and respect. You're getting an appointment on Saturdays all of a sudden here. While you've been missing a week, all of us are showing up the political leaders. Underground deals and understandings to set up your shows. Selective behavior towards political leaders, against MPs. You will remember that during the debate on the constitutional review, the President himself, yesterday, closed my microphone! "Hold the microphone!" And they shut it down. Many times they interfere and discontinue the party's president, Kyriakos Velopoulos - why? - and they do so to other presidents of parties, other than the two. No respect! They're coming, "they're playing their tennis," we're nothing here. If we're bothering, we'll leave. We've said it many times. Mr Tasoula, Mr President of Parliament, you are right about what you have said, but you are right about the Rules of Procedure and the others by 50%. Let's explain why. For, Mr President of Parliament, if the Rules of Procedure were to apply 100% to everything, we would give you absolutely right. However, you cannot ask for the Rules of Procedure of the House when this Rules of Procedure apply. Start with the simple, the little ones, because that's where you start and go to the big ones, the serious ones. Start with the subject of doubt in here. Start with this, with the question of the questioning of Members. What does the Rules of Procedure say? Start with the subject of speeches. Do they have paperwork in front of them? This is a House of Greeks, the Greek MPs speak, they don't speak. From the little ones - I'm telling you - to the most serious. Can the Member speak outside the subject or not? If he can, he can. If he can't, he can't. But not to do it when he says in favour of 'NOVARTIS' and not to do it when he says against 'NOVARTIS'! So what we sow, Mr President. That's right. There is no application of the Rules of Procedure. SYRIZA's right. Of course SYRIZA is right, but apply the Rules of Procedure too, Mr SYRIZA, to everything, not where it is in your interest to apply the Rules of Procedure, where it is not my interest to do so. How's it going to happen? Isn't that what Greeks and Greeks see outside? Don't we see them? We felt so bad yesterday, very bad. It is a pity to be ashamed of the situation in here, which we are twelve - fourteen hours, and we are working consistently and reverently in this sacred space and not to respect the old ones. If the Rules of Procedure have to be applied, Mr President, it will apply to all. And we demand from tomorrow that there are no texts up here. The MPs must speak of breasts. They're MPs. Apply it. Apply it! Search and see the subject of doubt, the subject of Members' presence in here. You'll tell me we now have COVID. The subject of the presence! Is this a picture of a House?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u80	How do you see us?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u81	Shall we put an apron?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u82	There's a Rules of Parliament, ma'am. Who said about the apron? I didn't say you could put an apron, but you can't come in here with sandals and jeans. Understood? Here it is Parliament, there is a Rules of Parliament and respect the space! So apply the Rules of Procedure to all and to all those who want to have an apron or do not want to have an apron. And of course, 'before you're voiced', we've been confirmed. Our communication yesterday was exactly that and you did exactly the same. You're polarizing the climate. You are polarising the climate for micro-party reasons. It's a nice confrontation for Paul, it's very nice, it sells. Journalists are thirsty to get news. The channels are ready to play them. The headlines are about to come out in the air, the site is to play you "Palakis," said Georgiadis, " said Tasoulas", " said Ragus". It's all very nice. You're having a nice controversy, you've got a lot of differences! But you're the same! You're the same in the Prespes. You're the same in Greek-Turkish. You're the same in the troika. You're the same in the memoirs. You're the same in fact. You are the same in the economy, in illegal immigration, in all the things that have kneeled Greek women and Greeks. You're the same! You're young, too young for the big and big for the little ones! And the PASOK which told us now that they are plunging the climate and taking advantage of the situation. You took advantage of it now, too. You went a little bit to SYRIZA now and told them that you are polarising the climate and you will not put words in your mouth that belong to us and we are the great central part. You took advantage of it, too. You did well. Just be clear in the world. And because, Mr President, we are particularly confused with what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said when you say 'right', what do you mean exactly as right? So let me get this straight. When you say "Right", to which right are you referring? On the right of the commandments of the Americans, the Germans, Merkel, which all of you have been obedient to obedience to all of you - all of you - the same orders? Happy birthday now! Now you're going to get Greece involved with Ukraine! Will SYRIZA tell us something, a word, about the bases in Alexandroupolis? Will the left SYRIZA tell us a word? Mia! Now the New Democracy keeps giving this issue up. But you're the same! The state keeps on doing everything. We are given the opportunity to uncover you today and to see the Greeks and Greeks the truth. This world must wake up, this disgusted political system world, which does not participate in elections. It is 55% from the electoral process. And we're enjoying ourselves in here, and you're fighting. That's what we're doing. We are looking to find a statement of your own, a statement against Mr Piatt, for example, that intervenes daily in the lives of the country. Mia! Mia! Mia! Is there? Tell us one. They're looking for our partners within two hours now to find a statement from SYRIZA against Piat. There's not one! Of course we'll never find out, because you haven't only made a announcement, a statement against Piat, but you're going and you're turning around in the United States Embassy's gardens to make nice pictures. You, you, you, everybody! What's the difference? I mean, if you ruled today, that's what you'd bring. If you'd ruled, you'd still bring that. It's the same stuff! What can we say? Unfortunately, you are the same currency, with the same zero value, the same currency as two sides. I close, Mr President, by saying something to the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy now, who has tried to rally your audience a little too, but has made a very unfortunate comparison. Mr Caramanlis, what relationship - sincerely now! - can the party of Constantine Karamanlis have with today's New Democracy? None! They'll tremble his bones with what they see you're doing. No relationship has to do with each other and with what you do, I repeat, the coral battles. I shall conclude, Mr President. I want us all to think in here that these debates, this level of discussion, these behaviours are following the Greeks and Greeks who are hungry, who have deprived themselves of their farewell children abroad - have had to throw them away, or go away -, Greeks and Greeks who pay the most expensive electricity, the most expensive gas, Greeks and Greeks with the lowest wages throughout Europe, who lose their homes, who lose their jobs, who drown in the rains, who sink in the snows that burn on the fires! They are watching these, and you should all be ashamed of the picture you show outwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u83	Thank you for the Greek Parliamentary Representative Mr Konstantinos Hetas. And the circle of parliamentary representatives closes with the intervention of the Parliamentary Representative of the party Mera25 Mr. Klonna Gregoriadis. Here you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Gregoryade, will you use all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u86	No, Mr. President. Five minutes will be enough for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. And I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u88	You're welcome. Mr President, allow me to begin by addressing you yourself. You know the personal love I have toward your person. I have heard you say, I am glad to say, that you do not take the reactions to your face or the difficult questions or the attacks of Members as terrorism. And to explain it clearly you said that terrorism for you is the jazzies and bats. I imagine that no one in a House could object to the fact that jazzies and bats constitute terrorism, and badly, of the unscrupulous kind. Allow us to complement the fact that terrorism in our opinion is to be hungry, terrorism is not to find twelve years' work, terrorism is to cool every night for decades, for decades, terrorism is to be reprocessed to the middle of the Aegean Sea at 12 noon's and to be abandoned in a boat without a mother and two infants, terrorism is all that involves the memorandum that the three largest parties of the country have been slaved for twelve consecutive years. On the subject that has arisen, we have heard yesterday and today from the government that we are talking about decommissioning our Parliament, and we must be clear and clear. I beg your pardon very much, but in Mera 25 democratic processes and la card sensations we do not accept. Since we entered the House, for two and a half years now, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you, the last government, have literally been legislating as it smokes you. Fast track bills with last-minute amendments, most of the time completely irrelevant amendments with bills and amendments, most of the time having doubled the articles of the bills themselves, from the main bill. Let the New Democracy - which is not ever the old New Democracy that we remember, but is the anonymous company set up by Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the position that was once the historic party of the popular right New Democracy - the anonymous company of Kyriakos Mitsotakis brings to Parliament the bills that we are recommending - we are never voting for any reason - ready, made up of the legal offices of the oligarchs, of the parasitic oliggers living like tickles attached to the neck of the Greek people by pushing the blood. So you guys need to stop talking about courtesy. A few "shoulders" never hurt anyone. Mr President, if every time a Member or Minister spoke out of the matter in this Chamber, the microphones were closed, our House would be permanently closed. The ministers speak out of subject whenever they want. The worst, the worst, are systematically tabling, as I said, splendid amendments, which even before Parliament has had time to discuss them, thereby degrading parliamentaryism, with the full tolerance of all the Bureaus and, of course, of the main Bureau of our Parliament. Governments are actually completing the abolition of this House with the practice of multi-branded projects that bring fast, fast-track, so that no Member can finally, not make it possible, no one can manage as valuable as it may be, at the end of the day. In the light of our intention, Mr President, to dispel this Parliament's remarks, which Merra25 has made in detail, yesterday's incident in this House leads to two conclusions: firstly, the selective, Mr President, banning Mr Polakis from speaking out of the matter when I remind him, Prime Minister, Minister, Chief of Staff, Parliamentary Representatives - who are entitled - and other Members of Parliament are only speaking on a matter, is a political choice of the President of Parliament, the Bureau of Parliament, which, as an institution alone, cannot be judged. Secondly, the essence of the incident in our view, Mr President, is the fundamentally targeted deterioration of the 'NOVARTIS' crime, which has cost tens of billions of taxpayers, the deterioration of all this scandal in a supposedly graphicity between a minister and a Member of Parliament, who are wrangling and passing on markets in some way. You will not be able to do so, you will not hide that they were stolen from 10 or 20 or 30 or 60 billion - justice will rule if it lets her do her job - a decay of debt that has made us all captives. You will not be able to hide 'NOVARTIS', you will not be able to degrade it in a supposedly graphic contrast between Mr Polakis and Mr Georgiadis or I do not know who else. I close, Mr President, by saying that, to be explained, Mera25 denounces the timeless humiliation of the Greek Parliament, with the boulder of its Bureau and the specific effort of the oligarchy to appear as a graphician any citizen is still concerned about the fact that the crime 'NOVARTIS' goes, as the 'SIEMENS' used to be, in our national clipping archive, and allow me the expression. In the deep memorial night that you have imposed on our people for twelve years, the Greek people, do not look forward, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to light cards. Unfortunately, you too eventually have to choose a day or a night. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u89	We are also grateful for Mr Gregoriadis' plurality of intervention. And because the Bureau despite the fire it is taking - because that is the nature of the political fire - let me also a suggestion, with many reservations. He said Mr. Gregoriadis said that all fast tracks are being legislated. Good. It means that the one who disagrees with it must come and sit here and not leave. Let's tell him that out of the two hundred fifty bills only five were urgent. That's how things solve. They're listening to us, and they're getting solved. He said a definition of terrorism. One could answer that terrorism is described in the Criminal Code. Nothing else constitutes terrorism but what the Criminal Code says. They are political assessments that terrorism is a political exercise of a failed policy. Because if we consider terrorism to be a failure to fail a policy and to be entitled to a response to break and shoot, then what he said could be seen as an inducement to criminality. They are political assessments, excessive or less excessive, that can all be answered, but not by activism. We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, a question to you, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u91	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u92	Mr President - I said it before and I mean it, I do not say it schematically - what are we here? Are we political people, elected by the Greek people, or are we peacekeepers, judges, and I don't know that? Don't expect me to talk to you about the Criminal Code. I'm here to say our people are starving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u93	Very good. Before moving on to the agenda, the Government has also asked the Prime Minister, Mr Economou, to place it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have seen in the three-day debate on the motion of censure, and we have followed it all the time before, was the methodical and methodical effort of SYRIZA, the Officerial Opposition, to turn us back to a past of anomaly and tension, a past of division. That's what we watched. It is a conscious choice to raise tons, to address characterizations, to place the mud on the fan, to zero and to destroy. The culmination of this practice has been observed in the Greek Parliament today in the placement of the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ragosi. I would like to say that we will obviously not follow either in the same style or fall into the trap for a number of reasons that I shall analyse and then. The government and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will calmly stick to what our work is. And our job is to face the crises, our job is to keep the citizens together, to respond to the difficulties and to achieve things that lead to the advancement and well-being of the many who leave no one behind. But, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are also things which, for the honour of democracy and Parliament, should not be left unanswered for common sense. You have called, Mr Ragosi, the terrorists to terrorize us. That's what you said. Invoking a phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u95	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u96	Quiet, please. He has to complete his thought.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u97	...revoking a phrase that had been said sixty years ago. Today, Mr Ragosi and ladies and gentlemen, there have been four anti-democratic gazette attacks at the house of a journalist at a police officer's house. They've become...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, on personal occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u99	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u100	Is this the behavior of those who complain that they're sneezing? You cannot complain that you are snooping and not letting him speak. My opinion is that you would be fascinating if you were silent. I offer you free advice. Is it possible to complain that you're being blown and not letting the government speak? Go ahead, Mr. Economou. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying this in a mood to fight and fight and you will understand why. I'm saying that today fascists, criminals, bullies put gas on a journalist, put gas on the president of Special Guards, all the time they've been putting gas on the motorcycles and their cars, police officers, men and women of Greek police. The bullies of "Ruvia" went outside the Ministry of Civil Protection, they also went to the "ATTICI". The last nine months have gone to a quarter of fifteen government ministers, to their offices and homes living with their wives and children. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the fact that you have been so easily told all this lately is that, ladies and gentlemen, you have paid a very heavy burden of blood from terrorism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's the party that rules. And it is dangerous, not to say anything else, because we must not say anything else, it is our choice to stick to our work and not to fall into the trap you want to set up in the Greek political system to save yourself from your political abundance, so it is dangerous to flirt with such divisive and polar tactics. Greece of 2022 is not Greece that will return to the squares. Greece has changed, we have changed. You can't change. Greece is changing. It is a Greece that attracts investment, is a Greece that strengthens incomes, is a Greece that the world finds jobs, is a Greece that will discuss and vote for a law that will give many more opportunities to many more companies. It is a Greece that, in the rule of law and in democracy, Greece, this government, by constitutional review, gave the minority the right to set up committees of inquiry. It is a Greece where judges are chosen from the yearbook, without "butchers". It is a Greece where justice is doing its job independently and is giving the one who has to deliver the right and the right. It is a Greece where universities operate and where lawlessness is dealt with. This Greece is built and we are looking forward. Anyone who doesn't know what to do in this Greece, because you don't know what to do in this Greece, do well as you know: Smear, divide and plunder. The measure of your expression and thought is the measure of pettyness, gossip and division. We won't watch you, we won't follow you. We will stick to what the Greeks expect from us to make the country proud, shielded and their lives better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u102	With the Deputy Prime Minister's position with the Prime Minister, Mr Economou, the preamble to the opening of today's agenda is over, and at last we can continue the debate on the bill where it was left at the previous meeting. I invite Mr. Polakis to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u103	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Ragossi, wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u105	You can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u106	You'll talk, but not now. Mr Polakis will take the floor, reminding us that Mr Polakis' speech was not removed in the debate on the entire bill, but was removed in yesterday's debate. Today is a new agenda. Come on, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u108	Wait a minute, Mr. Highlands. I would remind you that during the passage of speech, as I saw from the Minutes and looked into the matter, the Government, through the Minister for Development Mr Georgiadis, asked for Mr Paulakis to continue his speech. These are for the image and not for criticism of any decision. It's the real facts. Mr Pollack, you have the floor and I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll start with this. Mr President, I did not make any occupation of Parliament's seat. The President-in-Office, Mr Athanasios, dismantled the parliamentary procedures yesterday. And just from your position and from the last placement of Mr. Economou, what I understand is that you are ultimately disapproving of this practice that has stopped the process. And that's to talk about facts. Parliament uploaded the video. He was talking to me at the time I started talking and responding to the successive, the previous days, challenges of Mr Georgiadis to apologize to him. And I was answering because we're not gonna ask him. He was talking to me. He reproached me and stopped the process. He did not give the floor to another speaker whom I prevented him from climbing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u110	It didn't make you...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u111	He interrupted the procedure, left the Chamber and said: "We expect Mr. Tasoula to reproach the speaker." I've been waiting here too. I was expecting you to come and put me in reproach. I didn't make any occupations. I've been waiting for the process. Mr. Georgiadis didn't ask me to continue. That's what Mr. Athanasios left. He got up, interrupted the procedure and said: "Mr. Tasoulus comes to put in reproach" and left. On the substance of the matter now. That is to keep nothing behind it, because all your arguments on this coup have been stripped of, against the parliamentary procedures which went to take place yesterday, and now you say that I took possession of the Chair. I waited for you, while the procedure had been interrupted, to put me in reproach or to continue. Let's go down. Mr Georgiadis in the debate during the motion of censure dedicated his half of his speech to a very intense tone, addressing the Members of SYRIZA, to apologise to him why his prosecution was filed in connection with "NOVARTIS". And I said I'd answer the development law. So I answer. We will not apologise, Mr Georgiadis, ever: and I will describe the reasons from the pages of the archiving finding that you have tabled to the House, and I would once again call on you, because this is a public case and not a private dispute, to present the whole of the archive finding in relation to your persecution. So what does the finding say? I know why he doesn't testify. Because this majority conclusion will remain in the history of justice as a complete distortion of reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u112	It's not a majority conclusion. Wait a minute, 'cause it's fine. It is a majority event, because they think it is a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u113	That's exactly what I said. The majority conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u114	It's not a majority. It's a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u115	Yeah, it's two by one. It's the majority conclusion. Okay, don't make any grammar observations. The majority conclusion, therefore, two-one, will remain in the history of justice as a distortion of reason because the decisions of justice are respected, but they are all judged. It says that, from the pages it submitted, not from the total - six pages it submitted - it says that Mr Georgiadis did not favour NOVARTIS because he did not drop its competitors and that what he did to everyone, he did to "NOVARTIS". So I said the following. In 2012, the company "NOVARTIS" from EEA spending in private pharmacies - this, Mr. Hatzidakis, who prescribes the medicine for the doctor and go and take it from the pharmacy and pays the EEAY 75% or 100% or the participation if it has - took 157 million euros, the company "PFIZER" took 143 million euros, the company "ASTRAZENECA" took 131 million euros. In 2014, after a year of Minister of Agriculture, NOVARTIS received 145 million euros from 157, PFIZER received 78 million euros from 143, ASTRAZENECA received 82 million euros from 131. In other words, everyone else is falling down, and NOVARTIS simply drops 7%. Isn't that a privileged treatment? How did that happen? This was done through the ministerial pricing decisions, which protected the prices of NOVARTIS. A second and a thicker example of this is the conclusion, which is once again the distortion of logic that it has not favoured its competitors. The expensive drugs, the PVCs, the high-cost drugs that are given by the EOPY Pharmaceuticals, these drugs that are big, and not all of the companies, therefore, say that they still did not privilege "NOVARTIS", but they gave the others. So listen. For these drugs from the EEA and from its pharmacies the company "NOVARTIS" in 2013 gave 130 million euros of medicines and received 130 million euros of drugs. The company ‘ABBVIE’, which also sells such medicines, gave 51 million euros of medicines and collected 14. The company ‘MERCK’ sold 50 and collected 28. The company ‘AMGEN’ sold 49 and collected 25. Only the "ROCHE" she had many anticancers of 81 took 76. And you know very well all of you and those of you who are involved in finances that a company is bankrupt or developed based on what money it has in its fund is not that I have received, the thing is what my drawer has. So when one sells 130 and collects 130 and the other sells 50 and collects 14, who is in an advantageous position? Who makes the political decision to pay? Who's taking her? Is it not the political management and the political leaders who are at the EEA? Because there was this prerogative of payments. Third theme, here now is every lawyer who reads it to tear his degree, it's the so-called Harvard Project. It has been published that in March 2013, Mr. Frouzis - they have been made public, you know - had said that ten drugs should in any case be placed on the positive list and compensated by the EEAH and reported the medicinal products by name in an internal document published and that they are: Exelon, Seebri, Bexsero, Jakavi, Votubis, Signifor, Tobi Podhal, Omnitrope, Optaflu, Fluad. It's these ten drugs, and it even says that I want money to push it forward and say there 500,000, 600,000 euros. Mr. Georgiadis takes over in June. In September, he signed a ministerial decision, which changes the way new drugs enter the positive list and are compensated by the EEAY. While Mr Loverd's provision said that they should go into the positive list of EEAS and be compensated for traffic in two-thirds of the countries of the European Union, Mr Georgiadis and Mr Besa, wicked poets add three dictionaries and says: circulate and compensated in two-thirds of the countries in circulation in the European Union, not in two-thirds of the countries in the European Union, in two-thirds of the countries in circulation. So they're circulating in three, they're being compensated in two? They go into the positive list in Greece, and they used to want twelve. Are they running in two, indemnified to one? They're coming in. So the drugs go in, they get honor, they start to compensate expensive drugs some of them, very expensive, and large prices. What does the judge say, what does the judiciary say? As soon as the job was done, the drugs were invaded, Mr. Georgiadis brought a ministerial decision at the end of February, 28 February. Watch out. September makes the change, enter the drugs I said and end February brings a ministerial decision that restores the former regime, two-thirds of the countries. And what does it say, if you have your god, the finding made by Mr. Georgiadis? It says that the one who brought the second ministerial, the signer and the depositor is no more than the bribe controlled by Mr. Georgiadis, the one who brought the second minister. It therefore touched on the interests of pharmaceutical companies and the 'NOVARTIS'. Watch what it says. "Any attempt to link a corruption act to this action is directly conflicting with logic. In any case, Adonis Georgiadis or if he has been bribedled is a person of characteristic deafness," he writes the findings of the court of archiving "which he does not understand what he does and why he does it", that is, he has the irresponsible, if he caught them, he did not understand why he caught them "or he is a broker of bribe". And this conclusion archives Mr. Georgiadis' prosecution of the biggest drug expenditure scandal. Well, just a word to close up. Listen, Mr. Georgiadis. Clearly and has something to do with development. And you know why he's got it? I will tell you just one word and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance. Your development law is organising the framework of new corruption in the next period. Because it comes out of all its provisions that you are strengthening the strengths to become stronger to implement the plan that since the first week after you came out I said that you want to destroy the small and medium-sized enterprises. And do you know what it looks like, Mr Georgiadis, your development and your development with the period of NOVARTIS? It looks like the following: The other day you told us here and defended the PCR test, instead of 20 euros in compensation when it makes 5 euros in reagent, we will pay it 47 and have left it long to be at 60, 80 euros. Do you know what was the first way "NOVARTIS" strengthened in Greece during Abraham’s period? For something but a PCR test of molecular blood control when the Poles got them 7 and 8 euros, we paid 80 instead of 7,47 instead of 5 today, so it looks like your development. Last night's attempt didn't pass. It's obvious the defeat you've claimed. We will be here very soon to be sure that the Greek people will put you where you are worth two and a half years of destruction that you have brought to this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u116	Obviously the person present at the Development Council, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, will take the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, when am I going to speak on personal grounds?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u118	I didn't notice that you said on personal grounds, with my masks, too, I have a weakness. Wait. Mr Georgiadis will speak and Mr Ypsilantis has asked for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u119	Let Mr. Ragus speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u120	No, because Mr Ypsilantis has asked for the floor, which must be preceded. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your reference to my request yesterday, which was recorded in the video in the morning on all channels to the President-in-Office, that Mr Polakis' speech should not be interrupted. My view has always been that of the House and the fifteen years that I have been here that the House is a public dialogue area and sometimes conflicts, because that is how the composition is being created. I also want to make it clear to the House and to the Greek people who are watching us that I have nothing to fear from what Mr Paulis says. Clean sky lightnings aren't afraid. I am addressing all my colleagues in all the wings. I do not now see Mr Janakopoulos here who was calling before to give my archive act. I had brought the act with me since yesterday to give it to you, I will obviously give it to you today. Let's make it clear, though, a few things. The archiving act, requested by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, or by some of them in any case, as you know, contains sensitive personal data and justice never gives it to anyone but the person concerned. So the statement, Mr Ragosi, of your Members, to be given in accordance with the procedure for lodging documents, is known in advance to be illegal. If a judge gave Parliament my act of archiving without my consent, he would violate all my personal data. You only did it to show your true morality once again. So I am tabling the whole act of archives in the Greek Parliament because I was supposed to hide something. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This act of archiving is "the hymn" in my ministerial term. Hymn! Because it does not archivise me for the offence of passive bribery due to limitations, which could even leave the potato on top of it, but examines the prices of all the medicines of NOVARTIS and how they were invoiced for my day with one in one of my laws and one in one in every of my ministerial decisions. And it concludes that, not only have I not benefited "NOVARTIS", but I have harmed her. I have no intention, ladies and gentlemen, to respond to one by one of what Mr Paulakis said earlier, and I will tell you why, in case we agree. You said, Mr Ragossi, - I say you are a hypocrite - that you are interested in the rule of law. Excuse me, to a rule of law, how do we solve a difference? Mr Paulakis and Mr SYRIZA say that I was bribed by NOVARTIS, I say I am innocent and I was not bribed by NOVARTIS. How does this difference between us solve a rule of law, Mr Ragosi? With "Chinine Couples"? Or is it solved in an institutional way? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Didn't you, SYRIZA, set up a preliminary committee on "NOVARTIS"? In fact, in that debate, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I resigned and asked for a special court to be held under Article 5 of paragraph 86. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Then the majority of SYRIZA refused to do so and you know what the preliminary decision was? That the House has no jurisdiction to judge criminal matters of bribery and sends it to justice for justice to rule. That is the decision of your preliminary committee. In fact, you sent it to justice. And justice has ruled. Watch out for a few simple things now, 'cause then I want to come to KINAL. Justice has not ruled, as Mr Paulakis falsely says, that this does not mean that I am innocent. Innocent, ladies and gentlemen, I have been all over this period since the beginning. Innocent in Greece and in every state of the Western world, Mr Ragosi, because you are allegedly interested in the rule of law, he is our every fellow citizen, whether we like him or not, whether he is our political opponent or not, whether he has a grey voice or not, until he is sentenced to a court. In my case, things were even clearer. For five years I have been checked by the Prosecutor of Corrupakis, Mr. Toulopakis, and the Prosecutor of Economic Crime, Mr. Bardakis, to reach out to whether there are - look at - detachable indications to be charged and then five years later the prosecutor concluded that they did not find any detachable evidence to be blamed. Not if I'm innocent, I'm innocent anyway, even if I had been accused. To do political justice lessons in Mr Polakis that the act of archiving is one and that there is no majority and minority, you are several lawyers in the Chamber, I think you can explain them to him. It's not a court to have a majority and a minority. There were three assistant prosecutors, one supervisor and the economic prosecutor, five together. At five, the four said to file directly, and one did not say not to file. Watch out. You know what he said? That the Criminal Procedure paragraph says that before deciding to file, we should ask for explanations from the controlled person. And that was her view of the previous seven archived by Mrs Toulupakis. He never said I shouldn't be filed. She didn't, of course, find anything against me either. I would refer you to the statement by the Advocate-General, Mr. Jurous, a partner of Ms. Toulupakis, in the well-known case that was finally brought to the prosecution against Ms. Toulouse by the prosecutor, where Mr. Tzouris tabled - if you would like me to find his statement in the Minutes, although with a gulling you can find it - that we have found no found against Adonhi Georgiadis for 'NOVARTIS'. That's what Mr. Zachary told the prosecutor, Mr. Tzourus. Tulupaki, Zecharis and five prosecutors, now seven, have not found a sign for me, to refer me back and even here we are discussing whether I am guilty of NOVARTIS? I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to your humanity, since you do not have any institutionality. So, what do I have to do to stop you talking to me about "NOVARTIS"? Where do you want me to go? You want me to go to the Vatican? Do you want me to go to the United Nations? What will satisfy SYRIZA, which young SYRIZA today has posted "Miss in "NOVARTIS" and put on my face, my face? What am I supposed to do? Humanity, tell me. You blame me for having taken it from NoVARTIS and I spent five years in judiciary. They have all my accounts in the act of archives and they say that 'we have found nothing'. What else do you want me to do to stop? We need to make a special court of law president Paulakis and prosecutor Vaxebanes to be quiet, obviously. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Ragossi, you refuse to apologize to me because you called me a thief. I did not say anything about the political responsibilities of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. I love having this debate in this House, I am very willing to participate. You know, I am the Minister of Health who, for his term, had the lowest drug expenditure in the past twenty years, 1 billion 914 million. SYRIZA delivered her 100 million higher. What can you tell me about NOVARTIS and political responsibilities? The lowest cost in history is my service. The only year in which NOVARTIS was damaged is my term of office. I say this for what has been said before, although - I repeat - these were judged in the body that you hypocritically said when you had the majority that it is the only authority to judge, the Greek justice. And now that the only body responsible for judging has judged, now is not Greek justice, now you want Paul. But because you said something about the leaked video yesterday, I - and that is my great weakness - can't leave anything unanswered. First of all, I didn't leak the video to the reporters. I pulled the video and sent it to several of my friends. Who gave it to the reporters, I don't know. But I didn't realize you'd mind so much. And I'll tell you why, Mr. Ragosi. At the time Mr. Paulakis took the video to the sites on Facebook, he posted photos of the Step, where he had occupied. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I didn't know your problem was that you only wanted him untapped and not a profile. I didn't get it. And Mrs. Eleftheriadou yesterday I remember pulling a video. So, what happened? The sitting was suspended and there is no Rule in the Rules of Procedure prohibiting it. So another hypocrisy of yours. Now, you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say this: and I consider this to be the most serious one, because everything else is not of great importance to Mr Polakis, I think we have gone too far. What made me the biggest impression of all is that one of SYRIZA didn't have the courage to fry him for this homophobic comment on the "ciginous shorts," which he tried to recall yesterday at "KONTRA" at night, while he was told thirty MPs and twenty journalists. You are the party that is supposed to fight for the human rights of homosexuals, gay pride and all the rest of it, and a Member of Parliament tells you in the House "to wear a gypsy pouch." And that's not even what you couldn't go to condemn. You're so underhand. But I come to what I think is really serious, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL. Mr. Odysseus Constantinople, I'm ashamed. I and KINAL have fought and personally with you. We have been together in the same government, we have played joint struggles to keep the country in the euro. You will certainly remember me as a Member of LAOS when, when he gave you this House, they sweared as bribes from the cds, I was the first Member to stand up and defend you. Or don't you remember?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u122	I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u123	And you're making an announcement and making a speech here, and your parliamentary representative who equates me to Paul, equates him to the victim and you're not ashamed? Don't laugh at all. You haven't lived what we've lived here, ma'am. Don't laugh at all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, for the historical truth and for today's anti-KINAL conflict. Mr. Venizelos made a post the other day very deaf for the Prime Minister and the way he handled the issue of "NOVARTIS" in the debate on a vote of confidence and said that he was wrong for the Prime Minister not to speak of all ten political persons. I understand Mr. Venizelos' anger. Mr. Venizelos is one of the ten that SYRIZA and the Rasputin system have given us, in order to be able to win the previous elections, other than if that didn't get them out. The Prime Minister, however, spoke as the President of the New Democracy, to give the President of the Change Movement the opportunity to make a similar statement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where is Mr Androylakis for NoVARTIS? And I am not saying: 'Why is he not in the House?' why is he not a Member of Parliament? This will have been corrected in the elections. But I ask: where is it on the basis of the public word? Not even a statement on 'NOVARTIS', Mr. Androullakis! Not only does it make a statement, dear Vaggelis Venizelos, I address you, and I tell you you are wrong, but unfortunately your own party is wrong. Because when, gentlemen of KINAL, you are equating me with Mr. Polakis, you betray Vangelis Venizelos. Do you know why? Because it was Paulakis who blamed and Venizelo for taking them. Or haven't you heard? You cannot make the elementary distinction, and I quote the recent incident, you have seen it. I was sitting in the building and drinking my coffee, and someone came behind me and devoured me, and I only said to him that I'm going to sue him in court. Are we the same? Is the mortar and the victim the same? Yesterday he beat me up for eight minutes, and I didn't even look at him, I didn't interrupt him for a second, and he kept swearing me ten minutes today. Are we the same, and are you making this infamous statement when you own party has been targeted for "NOVARTIS" as I am with Andreas Loverdos? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, I would like the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u125	I understand. I am, you know, my colleague, 15 years of MP. I am honoured by the Greek people in successive elections and always by more votes than before, and I thank him for that. But politics cannot be just political tactics. It can't be just how we go up to the next poll or how we go back to government or even co-government. Politics cannot be separated from morality. It cannot be separated from dignity. It cannot be separated from memory. It cannot be separated from the authorities. If KINAL equates me with Paul, then it should explain what it was like to a "Polakis" in the same government for so many years. But I want to be clear now to the Members of the New Democracy. I would particularly like to thank everyone, each personally and all of New Democracy for the moral support they have given me over the five years. Mr. Janakopoulos shouted about the archive act - while I had given it from yesterday - 'Why don't you give it to him? What have you got to hide?' Do you know who Mr. Janakopoulos is? The one who had gone to the Attorney's Attorney Tulupaki a night ago to pick up the file.- Oh, my God! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This man who had gone one night before taking the file, before the plan was known to the Greek, said to me from there: "Where is the act of archiving?" And I had her in my hands yesterday to testify to her, like I've got nothing to hide. This act of archiving may be the greatest tradition of my political career. No Minister in Transmigration has been checked in the depth of my control. By my two-six have found in my accounts. Seven prosecutors found no sign of me. I regret that I did not have the approval of the National Prosecutor, Polakis. And because you said, Mr Ragosi, I would forget, that we're swinging on the judges, so while I was sitting there I printed five-six posts from Polakis' Facebook, different that swears judges with names, homes, addresses, everything. I put it down for the Minutes, because sometimes you'll take us crazy in this Chamber. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore like to thank the Members of the New Democracy. I see the Door Rusopulus against me, and I want to tell him that I am sympathetic to him. Do you know why? Theodore Rusopoulos was targeted before me for the Batopedian scandal. Do you remember what they said about Russoul? He was acquitted of everything. One of them apologized to him? Not even one! Do you know why? Because in trying to win power, you lose your humanity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to tell you not to do so. We are the culmination of the national authorities. And yes, let me say that one. I've been 15 years of MP here. Is there any day I'm ashamed of her and that was a bad parliamentary day for me? Just one! It was the day I attacked Mr. Polakis - the well-known episode of mustaches - who said from my family and lost my temper. I missed her. Why badly? Because here's the temple of democracy. This Chamber must have rules. This Chamber must be respected by Greek citizens. Last night, Mr Ragosi, if you didn't understand it, it was a tragedy for you at SYRIZA and I'll tell you immediately why. Whether Mr Athanasios applied the Rules of Procedure is a matter of discussion. Whether Mr. Paulakis was well or badly taken into the Step does not fit into any discussion. It is quite obvious that it is the most extreme anti-parliamentary behavior, which can only be compared with Golden Dawn. Only the Golden Dawn had similar behavior in the House in the fifteen years that I have been here. No other party! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it is indeed an excellent statement of who you are and who are very clear about the Greek people what you would really like to do if you were here for the second time. And I will say one last, Mr President. Mr. Paulakis said something else yesterday at Parliament's cafe after his homophobic statement. And I call on the fellow Members who were right next door. "As the cases enter the file, they retract." I would very much like SYRIZA to explain that to us. Do you intend, gentlemen, to give orders to justice about what he will do? And then you come here talking about rule of law and the others from there, from KINAL, make you avada? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for closing Nikos Papathanassis from my friend. Nikos Papathanases and his team and I, of course, have worked out an excellent development bill. His vote is a little delayed, one with the snow, two with the motion of censure yesterday with Paul. He's broken all the records of postponing law. I do not remember in the fifteen years anyone else was broken, but I will refer you to a phrase by the Greek people: "The good thing is a long time to go." But it is characteristic of SYRIZA's priorities. The development law, new jobs, investments and their GDP growth are from indifferent to unpleasant. The fact that yesterday IOBE made a statement about 2021 forecasts at 9.5% with 9.5% causes them darkness, because they don't want people to find a job. They don't want the economy going well. They don't want people's problems solved. They want people to be in the misery and the "a city mollusc". Well, I'll have no part in this mollusc. Mr Polakis, I'm making it clear, I'm never going to answer him whatever he says. My only debate with Mr Polakis on what he said earlier will take place in court in the lawsuit I put before him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He'll come to the court and explain why the prosecutor of the financial crime who filed me did something illegal. And I wish him luck in persuading the court! Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u126	Well, that's fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u129	Listen, listen! Wait a minute. We all know what it means on staff or talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, on personal occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u131	Wait. What I'm going to say is a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u132	What's the solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Constantinople, I'm not done talking. I'm not done. Wait. You're Vice President of the House first. Wait! What was said earlier, which lasted more than two hours, was, in fact, not the bill, let us not hide, but it was yesterday's events. The time given to the parliamentary representatives, who were overrun by others, did not even use him, was not about the bill. This time is therefore not even taken into account for the bill and keeps in full the time they spoke about the subject of the Rules of Procedure that emerged yesterday. From now on, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on the bill which started with Mr Polakis' speech from where he stayed yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, no, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u135	Wait. Next speaker is Mr. Liutas from New Democracy, Congressman Trikalon...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u136	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u137	...to complete this necessary prologue we made in yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u138	That's who...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u139	I would like to clarify the following: Firstly, I did not denounce what Mr Athanasios did. I said that what Mr Athanasios did might be judged, but not the way it was done. Secondly, because it was said that Mr Ypsilante did not ask for me to go on a matter, from the Minutes before me, Mr Athanasios asked Mr Ypsilante to come to the matter. Thirdly, in 2016, on 12 April, SYRIZA, New Democracy - and some other colleagues, but the two biggest parties at the time - voted for a Code of Conduct, which - if I read you with regard to the tension that is being created here - seems to read to you "Alice in the country of miracles". But let's see if these miracles can't be achieved in here. "The Members of Parliament must preserve the freedom of the House with objectivity and mutual respect..." - for imagined, mutual respect, we voted for this! - "... to respect the principles of defending the authority of the Parliament, to serve the public interest, to contribute to the prevention of acts of hatred against persons due to sex, age, sexual orientation, origin." We voted for this six years ago. Mr Paulakis heard, followed, with the tolerance shown, in time, also spoke of development law, and said that he did not prevent the Step of the House. I'm not going to continue this conversation. Whether the Step, in the name of this Rules of Procedure, in the name of the Code of Conduct and in the name of the fact that we have to show that we are consistent with our vote and with our writings, will all explain this to the Committee on Ethics, to which it will be referred. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are now continuing the bill with Mr Liuta's speech and the parliamentary representatives have kept the time inconceivable from the interventions they have made. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u142	I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u143	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u144	I would like to ask the floor to explain what the staff consisted of...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u145	I have the right to judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u146	You have to. You announced it before. Now give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u147	I have the right to judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u148	You don't have the right. You announced it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u149	I have the right to judge. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u150	You announced it before. Don't expose yourself any more!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u151	I announced who had asked for the floor on staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u152	Don't expose yourself any more! Don't fall lower! You have announced that you will give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u153	I have the right to judge and I judge that we should finally get into the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u154	Give me the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u155	Staff often, as we all know, are being exercised as an extension of the right of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u156	Give the floor to staff, as you have already announced. It's a disgrace to what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u157	Such an exercise I won't allow.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u158	You announced it before. Give the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u159	I announced who they've asked for...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u160	There was a heavy reproach! He can't stay like this! There's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u161	Okay, you have all the time as a parliamentary representative. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u162	Now! Now! Give me the floor now on staff, to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Ragossi, don't be miserable to what happened yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u164	You're doing the same thing in Athanasios! You do the same atrocities of Athanasius! Give me the floor now, as you announced!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u165	No, I take responsibility and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u166	Now give the floor! He said that I said, "terrorists to terrorise New Democracy." It's a disgrace to you! Give me the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u167	All right, my shame. Shame on me. It's okay, my shame. I accept it. You're right, my shame. I'm embarrassed. Mr. Liuta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u168	Starting on the basis of what was before....
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u169	You can no longer violate the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u170	Mr. Liuta, go on. You're young, don't be afraid. You have a strong voice.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u171	...I would like to stress that Mr. Paulakis, in his inadmissible attitude,
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u172	We need to get serious at some point. There's a development law.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u173	...he clearly deserved the parliamentary procedure and the Bureau. The images we have all seen evolving in plenary yesterday are images that are not worthy of the history of this Chamber and leave Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA on display. By now entering our debate on development law, we should stress that this is a very important text, a text that comes and effectively highlights our objectives and vision of real development in our country. This is a text that is modern, in the sense that it is integrated into and adapted to today and seeks to promote sustainable development, seeing and facing all modern challenges. It is the roadmap for development, which comes and illuminates economic and productive sectors, the strengthening of which can highlight and promote our country's multifaceted competitive advantage. The new development law introduces thirteen institutional regimes: the digital and technological transformation of enterprises, the green transition and the environmental upgrading of businesses, the new business, the status of fair development, research and applied innovation, agrifood, processing and logistics, business extroversion and the strengthening of tourism investments, alternative forms of tourism and major investment, European value chains and 360 degree entrepreneurship. This is a range of thematic productive sectors, which can also attract the core of our productive Greece. They are areas that will attract the Greeks who produce and who want to continue to produce, the Greeks who see through the evolution of technology, through the fourth industrial revolution and through the response of the climate crisis and environmental protection, the sustainable economic future of our country and all Greeks. These thirteen thematic regimes are a provision that is closely linked to the overall development vision, which puts into effect and implements our Government, are linked to the forecasts and objectives of the Pissaridis Committee's report, highlighting the spirit of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" and the strategy for industry, "Industry 4.0". For the first time, the objective of growth in our country puts all national targets and efforts towards a single orientation capable of reflecting and addressing modern needs and challenges. The aim of our development law is to invest, to invest in new jobs, which means creating new incomes, which means increasing employment and highlighting our highly trained and productively very experienced workforce. All this together is aimed at direct reinforcement of our national competitiveness. How, however, is the objective of increasing investment? We provide high rates of State aid and we provide considerable incentives. Critical obstacles are allowed, authorisation procedures are facilitated, the response time of the services to the requests is reduced and a new information system is exploited. We support productive sectors which can bear high rates of efficiency and we support remote and decentralised areas in our country. As was rightly pointed out by the ministers in the committee during the debate of the bill, the new development law is a law which was designed to support the Greek region decisively and to a very large extent. Ensuring the financing will also trigger the aid schemes, which will be launched on a stable basis on an annual basis. This, together with the information system provided, makes the new development law very attractive to all relevant investors. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the investors' world and all economic operators can confirm that one of the most time-consuming and very critical problems they had to face in implementing previous development laws was bureaucracy. With the new law we are trying very hard and decisively to deal with this bureaucracy. The assessment time for investment projects is falling decisively and completely, which will make the investors concerned critically and to a large extent easier. Long waiting times in business are a first-class hardship and, to a large extent, a serious stimulus against investment and entrepreneurship. To tackle bureaucracy for us is a key objective. There is no bill that does not enclose our policy of reducing bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, through the new thematic regimes one can observe the multifaceted nature of the development objective for us, for the New Democracy Government, applied innovation, new business, digital transformation, modernisation and upgrading, agrifood, processing, supply chain and tourism and alternative forms of tourism. And all of this, in combination, describes our productive sectors, of which a new national competitive advantage of great domestic and international importance can arise with design and targeting. Especially with regard to the Region of Thessaly and the Trikala Prefecture, from which I come and come, the opportunities that can be given are enormous. Our local communities in Trikalon Prefecture are based on primary production, processing and tourism. Development support through the new development law can contribute much and support both the vision of my country and of my fellow citizens and the vision of our entire country for growth and prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out that in our country today the world of free economy, entrepreneurship, the world of work and the whole of our society is always looking for the opportunity of production, work and development. And we will always work to provide these conditions and these conditions for realistic and sustainable development. It is a great offer on the part of the state to care and support the development and development of all local societies and the whole of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u174	So listen, because some colleagues had asked for the floor on staff, the President ruled and said that there was no staff. Please don't ask me yourself for the floor on staff. There is not one case in the million to overthrow and take another place than the President of Parliament took. Mr Raguss suggested - and this is something else - that after he has only left his teratology, because he has used all his time as a parliamentary representative, to speak, to say what he wants for three minutes and not for staff. But he is now spending all his speaking time today. Here, you have the floor for three minutes, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. And what can I say? I am so sad to have to do that. Not only did Mr Tsoulus recognize that matters had been raised on staff, but he also made a settlement, the wheelchairman, who will take the floor first and second. And Mr. Georgiadis did back at that time, so I could take the floor, and then Mr. Tasoulas said he didn't give the floor to staff. It's Mr. Tsouulas, unfortunately. Well, the greatest proof of the anti-constitutional, coup d'état that happened last night is the fact that Mr. Paulakis made a full speech on the issues that he had started talking about yesterday, was interrupted and he was subjected to a lot of penalties, and today by the President of Parliament himself was able to speak for up to twelve minutes. This is the greatest proof of what happened yesterday. Secondly, I will say two words about Mr. Georgiadis. If everything Mr Georgiadis says about the need to respect the principles of the rule of law in Greece, then one thing still remains to do after what he said. He should witness a charge witness against Mr. Mitsotakis in the action brought yesterday by Mr. Vaxevanis and other journalists for the fact that Mr. Mitsotakis took this step and trespassed every authority of the rule of law and sentenced journalists. And secondly, it is enough to me that Mr. Georgiadis confessed from this here the Stepma was the one who pulled the Trash TV video yesterday, Furthiotis - Government. And now to say a little bit about the very serious personal issue, which would really be ridiculous, ladies and gentlemen, if it were not so serious. And please pay attention to me and be transferred to the Government Representative, who will be transferred from the realm. What did he say before, falsifying what I said, reminding the historic phrase of George Papandreou, Mr. Government spokesman, Mr. Economou? That if possible, I called on the terrorists to put bombs in the New Democracy and terrorize them. Shame, shame, such a falsification, such a distortion! It is so great that this distortion that I expressly mention to Mr Economou after what I am saying now is that we are absolutely against all forms of terrorism, any act of terrorist organization that they think are the state and impose penalties by putting bombs and doing various such acts. We are completely against them and we are absolutely condemning these actions. So after these reports I am making, if Mr Economou does not withdraw what he said, then because each of us ladies and gentlemen has his personal red lines and he must put them where he thinks I have my personal red lines. Mr. Economou will have a bad deal with me in justice. Because the front we have with terrorism is absolute and unnegotiable.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u176	Okay. What can I say? Maybe. I mean, there's no one on the market who doesn't want it. It's their most common request. The compensation for the DIAMEA is for the checks we give them some overtime. And because of COVID, I'm not hiding you. Okay. These people are working New Year's Day, Christmas, nights. Taking an extra allowance, I don't think that's a reason not to vote. The operation of general warehouses is a legislative amendment. It doesn't change anything in the existing law. That may not have been necessary. But because it is a large investment of the National Bank, which can be judged on its board whether or not it is done, they told us to clarify it. We're clarifying it. There's no political risk of that. The sellers for short-term purchases were something we had forgotten in the bill on the people's markets. We had all agreed on how it would be done and brought it here so that there would be no loose end, because now the law of the people's markets is under way. The other is the double refreshment law. In other words, this particular body has nothing to put you in a difficult position to vote on. That's what I mean. And we did so on purpose so that it would be easy for someone who wants to support double regeneration not to have a political issue from another article. That was the logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u179	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the amendment with a general number of 1203 and a special 118, Article 1 states that the managing authority will be exclusive of the special service for the whole ESDP programme. Article 2 shall be assisted by the Directorate-General. He wrote "address" beforehand. Correct this. Strategic investment is not "strategic" of "extreme importance" and we correct it with a legislative process. There is no limit because that is what the Recovery Fund wants. There's no limit there. These are emblematic investments which have some specific characteristics. In Article 4, what has to do with a fair development transition comes directly to the Interministerial PPP to pass by priority. Article 5 is an addition to Article 4 and Article 6 is added to the Interministerial PPP and the Minister of State responsible for the operational support of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, too, Minister. Isn't there a question, gentlemen? The Ministers for Economic Development and Investment, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy for the Protection of the Citizen, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Climate Crisis and Political Protection, and the Deputy Ministers for Economic and Development and Investment, tabled their 1-22022 draft law: ‘Structure of the Legislative Area of Emergency Tax, Customs and related Arrangements, urgent provisions to safeguard the right of effective judicial protection’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mrs Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. A great turbulence, a wonderful situation, SYRIZA's partners. Mao is here, driving you. Everyone throughout the territory is aware that yesterday’s episode was premeditated and premeditated. I'm really sorry that some people have no sense of where they are. They don't respect. They're not ashamed. They don't follow rules and ethics. They are not entitled to speak of democracy by those who, in their actions and their words, show that they do not believe it or serve it. Ladies and gentlemen, our country following the long-term economic crisis and the lost five-year governance SYRIZA entered a development orbit that is stabilised with upward trends. All indicators confirm this. We attract investment, create new jobs and better living conditions for all Greeks. And here you would be right to blame Mr. Georgiadis and Mr. Papathanassis for their achievements. And I congratulate you, Mr President-in-Office. The new development law replacing n 4399/2016 comes at a key time for the country, on the one hand, the definitive recovery from the crisis of the last decade, on the other hand, the resistance that has shown to the challenge of the global health pandemic. The whole planet has been surrounded for two years by the consequences of the pandemic. A crisis that started as a sanitary, parallel to the course has created an economic downturn, and now has the effect of inflationary pressure. All economies are faced with medium and long-term consequences of the restrictions and the suspension of the production process over the last two years. National economies are interconnected and therefore interdependent. Global inflationary pressures cannot be avoided. Like the consequences of global increases in energy prices. That is why the Mitsotakis Government has announced financial support measures of some 2 billion to relieve the weakest social strata and keep businesses alive. Of course, support will have a similar duration to the prevalence of the phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to develop the Greek business. It all bears witness to a gradual growth that stabilises its dynamics. And this has already been recorded since the second half of 2021. We are committed to creating a friendly investment environment with the full absorption of available funds, the availability and careful allocation of funds. We are creating conditions for long-term and sustainable development. The incentives of the law concern all Greek enterprises, small, medium-sized and large. The basic principles governing it are facilitating entrepreneurship, attracting new important investments in the domestic market, speeding up the assessment of investment files, proper control of investment plans and declaring red tape. The development law reflects the ideological principles of a free market that promotes development and economic policy through healthy competition and dynamic extroversion. It aims to bring the region closer together with the urban centres, and that is really important, fair and proper, because the country's productive fabric is being built up. Ladies and gentlemen, the stand taken by the opposition parties is continuing with permanent negatism, a practice in which they abound. I conclude there, because there have been no substantial disagreements and substantiated points of criticism in this draft law. What exactly do you disagree on, ladies and gentlemen? In SYRIZA you claim in general and vaguely that large business groups and almost no small and medium-sized enterprises are favoured. That's not true and you know that. On the contrary, this developmentist is much more favoured by small enterprises by offering substantial amounts of subsidies, while giving much greater liquidity than was foreseen in the SYRIZA government law, a law which we then voted in favour of, because we are in favour of development over time and must send positive signals to investors from a pool of the country's political world. The large companies in this new development bill enjoy targeted tax exemptions in order to provide the necessary incentives for their activity on the Greek market and for more investment. Respectively, I would unwisely characterise the criticism of KINAL which, as a basic argument for the vote, raises the question of private utilization, apparently forgetting that in 2014 on the Samara-Venezelou co-government, the PASOK itself had then proposed and voted in favour of the assessment by the banks, so that there would not be delays in development funding. Your new Chief says he intends to exercise a serious opposition. What seriousness does this alteration and inconsistency of yours remove? Ladies and gentlemen, whether or not to vote for this bill and how to justify this choice of opposition is ultimately its own topic. The point is that Greece will be able in the coming years to further strengthen its position by offering more prosperity to its citizens. In the government we see the big picture. Two and a half years have passed since the New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis took over rule. In this period we restored the political stability, the credibility of Greece in the partners, in the markets and worldwide, and normalised the relations between the state and the citizen. In times of difficulty we have repeatedly experienced, such as the 'January' that swept through my Law, Carditsa, the government stood beside the citizens and immediately supported all those affected. I shall conclude, Madam President. At times of national challenges, the government was determined to reach the circumstances and to highlight the Greek-Turkish conflict in its true European dimension, it concluded alliances with new powerful defence capabilities, while by digitising thousands of services to citizens through gov.gr the government has reduced suffering and bureaucracy. In economic indicators we constantly reduce the tax burden on natural persons and businesses, while at the same time the European Commission assessed positively and approved the recovery plan for Greece of EUR 32 billion. All of this constitutes guarantees and creates an appropriate development area. So we have come to the attraction of large investments, such as 'MICROSOT'. The large investment projects unfolded after years of inertia with the first Greek and the consolidation of PPC and a series of projects in the infrastructure, such as the northern part of E65. All of this is important steps in the development and economic and social transformation of the country. So those who want to contribute positively are voting in favour of the new development law. As for others, they seem to have no ambition for Greece and our fellow citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Haritou now has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague, I want to tell you very clearly that we are not accepting lessons of democracy and morality from you. Besides, last night you showed your real face when you closed those microphones. It is wrong to insist on the same attitude in this anti-constitutional catastrophe. After all, in the morning, and the President of Parliament said that today is another day. As we said yesterday in the debate on the motion of censure, you do not learn from your mistakes. You're imprisoned and the best solution for the place is to leave. You and the Development Law that we are discussing today confirm this need. We live two and a half years of investment apnea and instead of explaining what the SYRIZA's development law has prevented you from moving forward on investment, you in the draft law debate and in Parliament yesterday are talking about explosions, supposedly orgasming investments, cultivating false expectations that the country is ready to take off development. Where'd you see all this, gentlemen? Which country are you referring to? Land a little. May I remind you, Minister, that in your hands you have a viable plan to reopen the 'SHELMAN' industry in BIPE Komotini? So many times I raised the issue and you're still looking for an investor. Here's one more thing, gentlemen. All the investment projects in the primary sector, in the region's agri-food sector, have been rejected and it is worth wondering why, after fulfilling all the conditions under Law43/2016, and while it is certain that their implementation will contribute to the modernisation and sustainability of the rural farms in the region. In fact, they were rejected on the same grounds as the current bill, that is, investments should be of an integrated nature. But the law still hasn't been passed! I urge you to review your position and include the plans of the Rhodope and the region in the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the development law marks your intentions, such as the direction in which the economy will move, how will the powerful resources of the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and the other funds be exploited, but above all, who you are thinking of supporting. You with the settings make your choices. Small and medium-sized enterprises, despite what the Minister claims, are essentially excluded. Besides, you didn't hide it from them. "The barbarians of the economy" you raise them on the one hand, "job" them down on the other. It is not just that individual companies are explicitly excluded from the bill, but those small businesses participating in the twelve of the thirteen regimes are unequal and the result is specified, since few opportunities have to compete for the integration of very large enterprises. These will, as you know, have good information from within, having access to the banking system by means of a direct assessment of the investment and, indeed, increasing the thresholds for investment per investment project, absorb aid to small enterprises, those who, together with the difficulty of banking lending, will also have to deal with the obstacles posed by the draft law to submit an investment proposal. The aim is quite clear: to make use of the resources, in particular, of the large groups, the very large undertakings in the tourism sector, since it is the only one supported by two of the thirteen aid schemes. It also raises serious questions as to whether it is a necessity or a photographic arrangement for integration into the development law of sectors that, due to profitability, do not need support, such as rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres, nuisance houses and others. But the most lost of your arrangements will be the Greek region, gentlemen! You are reducing from 3 million to a million the responsibility of the regions to approve investment projects. However, the most serious thing is that the eligible costs not covered by regional projects, such as R & D, for innovation, for environmental protection, will be directed primarily at enterprises in Attica. Do you know why? Because you do not put the criteria for differentiation at the level of each region. Because you do not take into account the size of the businesses. The danger is visible. A large part of the total aid to the development law will be granted through this category of eligible costs to enterprises in the centre. You're setting up an Atheniocentric System. This will be the tombstone of regional development and will lead to the widening of regional disparities. Unfortunately, gentlemen, whatever expectations have been cultivated for the development of Thrace through the conclusion of the Intergroup will remain hollow words, a blank letter. I would ask you to set the eligible expenditure criteria for differentiation in the aid rates of each region, as well as to set a maximum rate for these costs, in relation to all aids under development law. Ladies and gentlemen, you have put your security licenses in order to serve these goals. All the authority to administer the investment projects is central to the Ministry and to the Minister of Development personally. The serious lack of management staff, the time limits put in place, will lead the Ministry to manage investment projects, including those under the responsibility of the regions. For what decentralisation, therefore, what transparency in the management of public funds can be said? You are turning us back to the regime of opaqueness, interoperableness, which has led to a distorted productive model. You lead us to the era of the "NOVARTIS" scandal that haunts you, no matter how much you spend, which has contributed to driving the country to the rocks and the memoirs. I'm closing, Madam President. No, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no job creation, as you claim, nor will Brain be interrupted, but, unfortunately, social inequalities will be widened. The country needs a sustainable and fair development plan. It needs an investment law aimed at supporting investment projects that will enhance productivity, extroversion and innovation. It needs a progressive government that will give solutions to the major social needs and a new perspective for the place.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. On behalf of the Greek Solution, Mr Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I believe these three days of quarrels you had among you, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the SYRIZA, and in the middle, PASOK was also invading, as usual, to stop some time in order for people to understand what you want to do. Minister, another development law! We've got a hundred forty development laws in the past seventy years! As the Greek people saw growth, we'll see now. Big words, heavy titles and a result of zero. It is assumed, Minister, that the new development law would reform the regulatory framework for rapid investment procedures. "Greece - Powerful Development", follow-up of the Pissaridis Committee's report: strategic investment only for hotel groups and large businesses, large cities. We've got defoliation without any plan, hasty. The disaster is here. Tax exemptions favouring major interests. The kid and the small- and medium-sized, forgotten is slowing down. The income tax rate, unchanged. In the end, only the large companies that will be supported will be privileged, while small and medium-sized enterprises will be completely extinguished. Minister, you're a market man. When we told you that you had done nothing in the last two and a half years and the energy crisis, you brought it, you told us that we were extreme, that we were conspiracies. Listen, Minister. At Mr Putin's meeting with Orban today, you can hear what Putin told Orban about the current energy crisis that is plagued by Europe - but we do not care about it - and especially our homeland, to understand the great crime of the government: Long-term contracts are currently allowing Budapest to buy Russian gas five times as cheaper than the market price valid throughout Europe. I shall put this before you, Minister, because Mr Velopoulos also said it, and I think you are aware of it from the very beginning, because you are a market man. Both of you are people of the market, just like Mr. Papathanassis is a man of the market and it is not meant to make such criminal mistakes. I don't know if you guys did it. You, the Development Minister, who I think you are a man who knows what a crisis is on the market and you have experienced a crisis on the market, have you not realised that the violent frustration of the country will lead to the destruction that we have come today, with 200% over electricity? Well, isn't your home electricity, Minister? Don't you see them? I'll tell you what? Is it possible that we don't believe these things? President Putin told President Orban today. Orban, what is he? Is Hungary not the European Union? I would like to say something else, because we have too many protests, Minister. Please, that's what I want you to see. Ladies and gentlemen, people have put money in, because they have been looking forward to taking the corresponding money and being able to do their business from the NRP. Minister, take note of this because it is something Mr Papathanassis knows about, because he had said that these people are right. They have, therefore, put money to start a business and be able to end it through the NSRP. Now listen. He's bought another plot, for example, and he's got money to start a big restaurant. He can't finish it. He's got 150,000 and he wants another 80,000, 90,000, 100,000 to finish it. And all of a sudden, there is the law that says that the operation must already be active for three years, so that it can enter the NSRF. Why are you doing this? Can't we finally serve the Greek people here, the Greeks, the small and medium-sized one? You are proclaiming that investment must be made in our country. It is not just 'MICROSOFT', it is not only 'GOOGLE', it is not just the too large companies that will come. And after all this money you know very well that they don't live in our homeland, they leave abroad. How will a Greek come to invest with the little money she has? He needs to be helped to make a business, i.e. get workers, pay his VAT, pay his tax, so he can come to growth. How will growth come otherwise? I would ask you to see this, please, because people who are now through have been destroyed. They've put all the money they had, they've started the investment, the platform shut down, and they can't get into the ERR, because it's got to be the business three years already. But then why are we talking about new business? Aren't we going to make new business? No one's going to do any new business? I think you should see that, Minister. The defence industry: it is yours, Minister, the defence industry. What have we done except for an amendment that you have now brought and seen with Mr Heta to put counsellors on ODA? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. We're not producing anything. You know, right now, the NSAs, which produced a lot of calibres, bullets, etc. Is it inactive? He said the Prime Minister - he also brought a makeet - is leaving the Hymittos to become a park of ministries. When is he leaving? They've done everything, nothing's working, because they're waiting for the facilities to leave, and they're going to Lavrio or elsewhere to start working again. And we come and buy ammunition. Today in the committee we have been informed about the equipment. Again money for ammunition, a hundred five, a hundred twenty, a hundred fifty five millimetres, and we made it in our country. Why? Nothing we can do? Are we incompetent after all? But the Ministry of Development is responsible for them. You must lead to the development of the defence industry. Israel is a stupid people? In Turkey at the moment you know very well how Turkey's defence industry has gone up. It's 70% autonomous. Why can't we, working for three hours all the time, twenty-four hours to produce for our own Armed Forces and sell abroad? We used to make it. Why this thing? The shipyards themselves. In other words, we're stuck and the workers are sitting, and we're paying 3 million and then go 3 million next time so that a cannon can come out. Why is this all happening? You believe in green growth. No one's going to see. All right, sometime green growth and green horses will come. But is it possible to deviate so violently - I told you at first - the country since we have autonomy in energy? And say we didn't tell you? Here Mr Velopoulos begged, begged the Prime Minister: 'Don't do it, we'll be destroyed'. We're ruined. What are we gonna do now? He says Mr. Screkas: "He came to stay. He is not going to leave in two months' time." Do you remember in October what you were telling us? That in two months' time the problem of the energy crisis will be over, that the bills will come back, that you're putting 400 million. But 1,6 you've been forced so far and you're going to put so much more and more, because that's not over. So the Greek people are being destroyed for fun, why does anyone have the real idea that we should go to these kinds of frustrations? So the government of excellence, the state of service, Minister, of the party with millions of media in order to exclude us from other voices, because only your voice in the morning, noon, afternoon, evening, does not tell us which Greece is envisioning. The big business groups that will collect money from the trader and we will finally have the death of the trader, as is called the masterpiece of Arthur Miller "The death of the trader". That's what New Democracy does. If you cannot quickly build development in the country seriously and strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, our country will be destroyed in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u189	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u190	It is very serious what sounds and can do a great deal of damage to a very large national effort such as liberation. Mr. Mylonakis, because I consider you a serious man to be aware of what you have done with your speech. You filed a paper with Putin - Orban statements about how Budapest buys natural gas. You said at a price five times lower than on the market. At the same time you connected the increase in the gas price to the ligniteification in Greece. So to increase the price of gas in Hungary is the result of liberation in Greece? Are we in good shape now?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u191	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u192	But don't say those things. This is a disgrace. To end a fairy tale in which the Greek Solution has been starved, I would like to make it clear that there has been no liberation today. So current prices of this year have nothing to do with the closure of lignite plants in a year and a half from today. The lignite plants will be closed at the end of 2023.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u193	...have shut down...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u194	Those who have closed down, Mr Mylonakis, are not the degreasing units. They're the units that had to be shut down because they can't work any longer, as they've exceeded their working time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u195	Immigration units, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Comrade, if you will, you will take the floor. You don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u197	All units that today can be operational, which have not passed their time limit of life, such as in the Heart of Amynteios that cannot function and have been closed, all units work and work in full. So it has nothing to do with the current value of degreasement. If we were in 2024 and we had shut down the units, you would say to us: 'You shut them down and he went up'. We haven't booked anything to go up here. The rise in gas prices, as you have rightly said, is an international issue, too complex to explain it to you in a few seconds. I close by saying: You presented Orban as doing something very important. Good for him if he did it! This is what you say on the world market hedging. PPC has done so with all the major Greek industries. The contracts were closed last June. The reason why our industrial production of large groups - not to mention one - has not suffered any damage from the increase in gas prices is because they have done hedging, such as Orban, since June with PPC and have purchased at the price before the increase. You just didn't know. So what you're accusing us of doing, that Orban did, and we didn't do it, I'm telling you, we've done it. So you just don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u199	For a minute, Mr Colleague, I would ask you to proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u200	I believe the Minister doesn't want to underestimate my intelligence. I believe our IQ is on the same level, Minister. What did you say now? That we have made contracts until 2030 or 2036 with the then current price from GAZPROM? Where is this contract and we don't know? We buy from the stock market, from Switzerland every day. In March, Minister, 2020 that we had autonomy cost us some 40 euros on average. In November 2021, 293. Christmas Eve, we're over 400. Now she's down to 90. What are you telling me we've done since we're buying each other every day? That's a matter. Second, did anyone talk about degreasing units? This is your invention. We had lignite power plants. At the moment, did the government admit, after the evil that took place, that lignite-fired production will continue until 2025 and is trying to put two factories back on track? Do you deny that?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u201	I deny it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u202	Is it possible to deny this thing? You destroyed the country. Do you understand? Not you, the ideas of some, the green horses. We said yes to the RES, but with a serious management. And you come and tell me these things in Parliament? I think, Minister, you underestimate me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Taradilis has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed development law is another legislative initiative which is part of the Government's firm commitment to form an integrated institutional framework capable of contributing to strengthening healthy entrepreneurship and creating the conditions for a modern development strategy that is in line with the transformations of the international economic environment. The experience of the ten-year recession experienced by the country between 2010 and 2019, which led to an unprecedented GDP decline, made it clear that the country's productive model remained stable for several years, inclusive and incompatible with international economic trends. This delay became even more evident during the pandemic. The Greek economy, based primarily on tourism and micro-enterprises with low innovation, proved more vulnerable to the shocks caused by travel restrictions and prohibitions on human communication. This reality reintroduces, in particular, the need to transform our economy's productive base in order to gain the necessary diversity, which will, on the one hand, make it more resilient to international economic turbulence, on the other hand, encourage the creation of a modern development model geared to long-term investment in areas which are expected to dominate the world economic situation in the coming years. The proposed development law, which is being put to the vote in the House by the Ministry of Development and Investment, attempts precisely to mark the transition towards a modern and extroverted productive model, inaugurating a new development strategy. This aims to achieve it through the redeployment of priorities in the sectors of the economy and the categories of investment projects which can benefit from State aid. At the same time, it introduces a flexible, transparent and rapid process of assessment, approval and integration of investment projects, which ensures the public interest and respects business time. The new philosophy of the draft is essentially that it leaves the traditional horizontal and general wording of the assisted sectors, i.e. the aid schemes, such as ‘general entrepreneurship’ and ‘aid for machinery’ in the applicable law. In particular, the bill defines thirteen strategic categories of aid, thirteen thematically targeted aid schemes in specific sectors of the economy, i.e. it specialises in the areas where the aid funds for business initiatives will be directed. These new schemes include, among other things, digital and technological transformation of enterprises, environmental upgrading, research and applied innovation, agrifood, primary production and processing of agricultural products, strengthening tourism investments and alternative forms of tourism. These pillars, which are directly linked to the country's objectives in the national recovery and resilience plan, form a targeted investment strategy, indicating that the new law aims to serve as a catalyst for a new development policy and not only as a mere financial instrument. It is worth noting that the previous development laws, which followed the horizontal scheme system without emphasis on individual thematic categories, financed the Greek economy with amounts which were mostly directed at low technology and innovation business initiatives. This leads to the conclusion that the reform of the aid schemes towards a more specific thematic logic is a necessary treaty to win the bet of a modern and more competitive development policy. In addition to changes in the categories of aid, the bill attempts with a number of key changes in the administrative procedures for evaluating, approving, controlling and certifying the application of the new development law more efficiently. Firstly, the completion of all individual stages of integration and implementation of investment proposals will only be through the information system of development laws operating at the Ministry of Development and Investment. Secondly and perhaps more importantly, the assessment of the application of a project to aid to the law is now provided for a maximum period of sixty days within which the required decision must have been adopted, which is now more than one year in many cases. This critical objective is achieved on the one hand by pooling a large part of the evaluation and monitoring of projects at the Ministry of Private Investment's Directorate-General for Development and Investment, which has sufficient staff, know-how and experience and, on the other, by making available for use of chartered auditors-accountants at the evaluation and control stages. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of a targeted and structured development strategy is a prerequisite for creating a modern economic orientation that will strengthen the country's competitiveness and shield the national economy. The rapid changes in the international business environment do not allow for the inertia and perpetuation of a productive model belonging to yesterday. The new development law follows the legislative initiative on strategic investment adopted at the end of the year and thus complements an integrated institutional framework contributing to the transformation of the country's productive base and the formation of stable and sustainable development. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now on behalf of SYRIZA, Mrs Notopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about a development law, but above all I think we need to ask ourselves what a government of the best friends, of the best friends, of the best friends, of what a government can offer to the Greek economy, of passion and of mistakes, of what is the added value of a development law that reproduces models that are already failed by the past, what is the added value of a law that ignores the needs of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is obvious to have changed in the post-Central era. Others are the challenges they face. And while today we should make use of all available funding, all available resources for the reconstruction of the productive model, for the transformation of the Greek economy, for the recovery of confidence, for the recovery of the attractiveness of the economy, but also for the strengthening of local economies and societies, we do not see anything happening. What do we see? We're seeing a draft law based on the Pissaridis plan. We see you adding another lost opportunity to the list after the Recovery Fund, lost opportunities for the recovery of the Greek economy, lost opportunities for society, for our people, for progress and for the future. But what is certainly not lost, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is your real goal of strengthening very great entrepreneurship, the few, the particular, photographic ones many times, rospheologically too many times. That is our difference, however, because we have made sure that we turn the resources available to the vital cell of the Greek economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises. That was our target. Your goal is to constantly redirect to the large, the few available resources. You give the evaluations to individuals, on the grounds that they can't do this public service, they can't do that. My experience in the Ministry of Macedonia-Thrace is denying it. However, strengthen them. You don't do that. You also do not include the social and solidarity economy, not because you are an unknown sector of the economy, but because you are detestable, the same abstention you have for society, the same abstention you have for solidarity. At the same time, you know that the risk to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is present. After pandemic debts, after the lack of liquidity and access to the financial system, therefore, making this risk so that you do not give special regimes for these businesses, I think it is obvious. On the other hand, I will not stop asking myself how much hypocrisy your Government hides, continue to talk about decentralisation, when you increase regional disparities, when you undermine, downgrade and weaken public services, when you permanently strengthen the private sector and when you limit the powers of the regions. You don't trust local government? Don't you trust your blue executives? Do you not trust state standards that define responsibilities? In fact, all you care about is the gathering of superpowers to the Minister, but also to the hydrocephalic state of Athens. And speaking of the degradation of northern Greece, I think that this is already evident from the deterioration of the Macedonian-Thracian Ministry and of course the Prime Minister's office, which is currently nonexistent. The government of Alexis Tsipras had prioritised the upgrading of northern Greece, from the establishment of the Office of the Prime Minister until the upgrading of the State Secretary of Macedonia and Thrace, a critical State Secretary we gave him prospects, which served as a catalyst for developments in the wider region of the Balkans and you have already been depriving him of one of the main development powers. And after our strong reaction, like the city's institutions, we have had to make changes, bring something improved, but in fact continue degradation. Of course, we did not see a reaction from the Deputy Minister of Interior, Macedonia-Thrace, nor did we see a sample defending northern Greece. As for Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have proved yourself to be 'blocked cods'. Since yesterday, the news the Prime Minister has been hiding from the Thessalonians on the day of his visit about what he said to the new Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia. But the news makes the round of the internet and the Thessalonians understand your election patriocardial cave. But the Prime Minister forgot to go to a hospital in Thessaloniki to see how the local health system has collapsed. But today is a tragic day for our city, today the city looked at us with horrifying reality. A nineteen-year-old was brutally murdered. We have painful condolences, power in the family. At the same time, however, we must all put an end to violence. It must not happen again. We should all protect human life together. And on this day when the city lamentes the nineteenth year old, the Prime Minister's image accepts by subtracting Suyyadas gifts with supposedly humiliating political signal from the businessmen who visited exceeds every limit. Darkness, dark deep. I close, Madam President, with the development law, to complete my position. Lost opportunities naturally count tourism with the Mitsotakis Government. There should be an overall upgrade of the tourist ecosystem. That's what the country needs. That is what we need in the tourism sector, which is also the pillar of our national economy. Relaunching tourism does not automatically mean that it is recovered. That's what you should know. We have one of the most optimistic forecasts to talk about reintroducing the pre-COVID levels in 2023, to the most moderate ones talking about reintroducing pre-COVID levels in 2025. We're leaving tourism in the void? We now need real support and support instruments. But with this bill you do not really respond to these challenges for tourism. You have excluded medium-sized enterprises from the right to grant grants, especially individual enterprises. Our rapporteur, the parliamentary representative, Mr SYRIZA's fellow Members, have been speaking for days now. I shall conclude, Madam President. Because if we talk about the forecasts for alternative tourism, the funding that has been announced is not sufficient. The Minister of Tourism has not succeeded, while receiving a ready-made framework law on alternative tourism, to issue a single KHS for alternative tourism. Who are you finally kidding? The three-star hotels you left out. You had left 70% of the businesses. But the tourist sector does not only need five-four hotels, it needs travel agencies, tourist bus companies, aircraft ground service companies, business pleasure boats, special tourist businesses. Tourism has so far been based on these operations. Instead of dominating the development instrument for strategic investment, you actually have it on the margin. Do you understand what that means? This will mean undermining the future of the country's economy, undermining our tourism product. That's what she's gonna say. Generations of entire tourists lost. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the government, every day that passes, opportunities are lost for the country, opportunities are lost for the world of progress. It is obvious that the growth bet will win a progressive governance with Alexis Tsipras Prime Minister and the healthy productive forces of the place ahead. No matter how much lists of Pechas you give, no matter how much microphones you close, no matter how much autocratic behavior you show, your time counts. You're already on a run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. It is not true that northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace are not favoured by the development law that we are voting on today. Included is the entire zone from western Macedonia to Thrace at a 70% subsidy rate, with an additional 15 km limit to thirty at the whole border, in order to strengthen the investment at the border with the additional funds and facilities. Consequently, far from reality what was heard a moment ago that this development law does not favour northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace. Secondly, the Prime Minister visited the infrastructure co-chair for the great infrastructure that is being implemented and to be delivered to the people of Thessaloniki today. I think a glimpse of our topicality is convinced of this. But, Madam President, we are debating a very good law today at a very bad meeting. What has happened in the first day of yesterday's debate of the bill is a spot in our parliamentary life and concerns us all. And I would say, Madam President, that you should transfer to the Bureau, which is intergrouping - and that is an insurance policy for the proper functioning of our parliamentary and balanced policy - my personal view of the Rules of Procedure here today. In our democracy we must all agree that the procedures, the voting and the predetermined, as much as difficult and tiring, ladies and gentlemen, are the soul of our culture and the heart of our civilisation is the majority. All of us, all members of the National Representation, have to play the role of the "Head" of the country. Will we stand up to the expectations of the Greek people? It has the Rules of Procedure and Rule 77, which provides when the Member is checked by the Bureau, when he is directed at fraudulently, slanderingly and insultingly towards his colleagues. It also has Article 66 with its specific verses, specific paragraphs which provide when the Member is inspected. The provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure has been circumvented not to speak with texts from this point of view. It's completely dismantled. Why? And, of course, there would be no problem and no discussion about any colleague who was going up to the Step to read his speech, if he focused on the bill and if you were to cast proposals to improve the bill, and if he did make a fertile criticism, there would be no problem. No one would have talked about it. But I do not think that there are members of the National Representation sitting in their offices with their associates and looking to find out what they are going to write in the text that they will read in the House, how they will underestimate their political opponent, how they will slander him, how they will exalt him, instead of focusing on the bill. We're not asking everyone to be dictators. Of course, when you write your speech about the bill, you can give it a say. There is tolerance from both the Bureau and from all of us. But a Member who has been thinking for hours about how to offend his political opponent, how to slander him, how to reduce him, in my view, he is not a productive MP in whatever party. This should be seen by the Bureau of Parliament if we really want to upgrade Parliament's role. And because I understand, I suspect, I see that, as far as election time is concerned, phenomena like what we saw yesterday will be intensified, because some people dream of resurrecting in 2011, 2012, the squares and all of them, things from which they have gone unreturned, I would ask the Bureau to see the issues of the application of the Rules of Procedure. To go through the bill now, Madam President. I said it's a very good law. What does this development law offer to discuss, improve and vote on? In my opinion, Mr Ministers, since I congratulate you on the content of the law, three are its characteristics: speed, balanced growth and prospects. And I'm explaining. At speed I have always said and I still support it with fanaticism that time in our financial system is money. It makes no sense to pass bills, however well they do not produce direct and tangible results. This law sets binding administrative procedures for thirty and forty-five days to examine and integrate the files. SYRIZA tells us: "Why change SYRIZA's development law?" We're changing him because we think he wasn't functional, ladies and gentlemen. And yet I would like to remind you of something the Minister for Development has said from this step, that under the SYRIZA Development Law you have financed EUR 1.5 billion in four years' time by means of the 2016 SYRIZA Development Act. The law of SYRIZA. And the New Democracy, which has no faith in your development, has come, and with your law it has financed two and a half years of EUR 2.5 billion investment projects. But we are not satisfied. That is why we are presenting a better law today, where the speed of procedures is very important for the development of the country. Balanced development: This is the first time that a development law does not emit the message 'whoever precedes'. It divides things into thirteen thematic regimes, so that all sectors of the economy can develop balancedly. What does not this development law involve? New technologies, fourth industrial revolution, digital governance, tourism, alternative tourism, agrifood, processing, logistics, transport? It's all about it. As a result, you can talk about balance, and in an objective and equal manner, 150 million euros are entered into every thematic regime. Does the balance and balanced development have anything to do with sectoral aid? No, it has to do with geographical support to be a balanced development throughout the country. I told you earlier about northern Greece, Macedonia and Thrace. I will repeat that under a previous law, however, which touches on development, the regions are now considering investment projects up to 1 million. The largest investments go to the General Secretariat of Private Investment. What does that mean, that it'll be central investment? The stadium, my fellow Member, is the only one that is actually excluded. It will be examined by the Ministry for reasons of speed, so it will set administrative deadlines for the bill, and it will make it easier for the regions to examine the smaller investment projects as well. Who's with the kids and who's with the big guys? Are we with the big ones, who incorporate development projects from EUR 100,000 and over? Are we with the big ones, who give all the liquidity to small investments and other facilities to large investments? Who has a problem accessing the banking system, the little or the big ones? The little ones have a problem. That is why we give them liquidity incentives to implement their investments. The balance is therefore also served by the size of the firms which are being strengthened, and this law primarily makes small and medium-sized investments easier. But it also gives perspective to this bill, ladies and gentlemen, because of the two previous parameters I mentioned. The speed and balanced development ensure that the investments are finally implemented. Things are binding, the time margins are binding. What happened to previous development laws? Do we all know each other? From the proposals originally put forward at the end, we have only reached 25% of these proposals. We want to do this, and 50% and 100% of the proposals that are finally part of the funding. These are the big differences in this law, ladies and gentlemen. And, Mr Ministers, you are doing very well and bringing this bill right now, after you have exhausted the limited possibilities of the previous development law. Because now is the time to return the country. Now we are all obliged to leave back the crises, which will be over sooner or later, and to increase speed, to turn our efforts on growth and the economy. It's the field that will help us win all the bets. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to vote in favour of the development bill, because it opens a new window of hope for the country, for growth and for the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Gikas has the floor on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on what happened yesterday and today at the National Representation, which we have seen images which do not seek honour for any Member. We all have to safeguard Parliament's authority, because Parliament's image is the country's image and not just travels internally, travels abroad as well. We are going through a bad picture, which does not serve the national interest, and some deeds of colleagues unfortunately on the SYRIZA side make things much worse. But I come to this very serious piece of legislation. In 2019 we placed at the heart of our government program the development and creation of new, better-paid jobs. The achievement, of course, of this objective has many parameters and requires continuous and methodical work by many ministries. In this context, the new development law is a very important institutional and development tool for increasing private investment and thus achieving the above objective. Of course, every development law reflects the needs of its time. Most of them operated mainly as financing mechanisms, supporting a number of private investments, but having a comparatively low footprint in our economy, while being characterised by the great bureaucracy and the extremely long procedures for controlling and approving investment projects. A characteristic example is the current developmental, n.4399/2016, which, despite the positive, demonstrates that bureaucratic moanings have worked at the expense of the positive project. In particular, in the first two years of its implementation, i.e. until July 2019, only a thousand investment projects were approved and the State aid amounted to approximately EUR 990 million. The new leadership of the Ministry of Development has speeded up the procedures, and in the last two and a half years, the development bank has been subject to some 300% and the state aid has been close to EUR 3 billion. By exploiting the experience of energising L.4399, the Ministry's political leadership emphasised the effectiveness of the new development and the facilitation of investors. Significant innovations are therefore planned to reduce bureaucracy throughout the whole process, namely the submission, evaluation, approval of investment projects, and explicit deadlines for the adoption of administrative acts are laid down, which is extremely important. Reduced bureaucracy and speeding up procedures are accompanied by a new integrated information system in the development law, which will facilitate both investors and services and, of course, this information system is interconnected with other information systems of other bodies such as ADI, GEMI, etc. Our Government - and this is very important - chooses to legislate on the basis of a specific strategy, aiming to increase private investment and to bring growth to our economy, growth on healthy bases. Its policies are indeed based on the report by the Pissaridis Committee, which has highlighted the areas where our economy should focus. In addition, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan was supported by Greece 2.0 and the NRP 2021-2027 and the new development law. Our country, in other words, acquires for the first time an integrated development plan, where all the financial instruments are working harmoniously to achieve the same objective. Therefore, the development law under discussion meets the investment and business needs of our country and our time. As other colleagues have said, 13 thematic regimes are being established, contrary to the eight of the previous law. I am not going to talk about all of this. I would, however, stress the possibility of digital and technological transformation of businesses, the green transition and the environmental upgrading of enterprises to support young businesses in the new business, for farming, for processing and supply chains. And, of course, something that is of great interest to tourist regions, as well as my constituency, Corfu, is to strengthen tourism investment, alternative forms of tourism. Of course, a separate regime is the big investment. The bill introduces in this context the innovation of individual activation of each regime in stable circles - it is about EUR 150 million per regime - and thus avoiding phenomena where one industry absorbed funds from another sector. At the same time, particular attention is paid to the region, since the investment facility there will have a positive impact on local communities. Let us say here that this has also contributed significantly to the new regional aid map, which the European Commission recently approved, which provides for high rates of State aid for most regions of the country. So the new development law decentralizes. At this point I wish to thank the leadership of the Ministry of Development, which accepted a request from many colleagues for the inclusion of one, two and three star hotels in order to modernise, upgrade, and reduce the minimum investment to EUR 100,000. At the same time, I would like to reiterate the request, Mr Ministers, to include the accommodations rented for upgrading investments. You just told me that, if they want to go to hotel level, they can. From there, however, it is good to see it in the whole, because the rental accommodation is indeed the backbone of a tourist area. In conclusion, the new development law redefines our productive model, creates a pro-investment climate, strengthens employment and supports new entrepreneurship. It can therefore positively affect the present and future of the country and lead Greece to long, sustainable and strong growth. Of course, for all these reasons I am voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Gika. Good evening, too. Good month. Happy birthday to those who celebrate today. I see one. Sweets, I can't see! Anyway, we're overriding it! I will now give Mrs Theodora Jackris the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, then to Manosos Voloudakis from New Democracy, and then the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, will take the floor. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's speech by the President, Mr Athanasios, apart from unconstitutional, anti-democratic and anti-parliamentary, has been deeply hypocritical. It is a long parliamentary tradition, but also a political one, that the Member should not only monitor topicality, but also place himself in Parliament during his speeches. I would say, in fact, that the parliamentary speech must not be disfellowshipped from real life. Otherwise, we should each of us in his speech be stopped every day by the President-in-Office, which has never happened - I must assure you - on my long parliamentary route of eighteen years. And because Mr. Athanasios is experienced and political and trade union and legal, I cannot imagine he was suddenly taken over and envied by the glory of a pedophile. On the contrary, one can very reasonably assume that yesterday's selective intervention was and was followed by instructions from the highest levels of the government, precisely for Mr Paulakis to be plunged in the context of the overall cover-up of the NOVARTIS scandal. Mr Paulakis' mention of the fact that the files as archived in the same way can be recovered in no way interfere with justice. I would say, in fact, that it is a fact based on the procedural rules. When there is new evidence, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the files, the documents and the documents are removed from the file and can be re-examined. I would say, in fact, that for lawyers what I say sounds almost common. On the contrary, just yesterday in this Chamber, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, effectively abolished the presumption of innocence of journalists and made a decision to refer them to justice, while their case is pending. In other words, he made a direct suggestion to justice as to which decision they should make. The only thing he did, of course, was that he did not make the decision and actually did not indicate us the worst penitentiary store in his choice of booking. However, I have never seen them and those who are usually stirring up by such interventions at all. I would like to close with a general comment on the stance of the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that there is bilingualism in the ranks of the Change Movement in terms of their attitude to the government, and that is a feature which must not go unnoticed during the period we are going through. I would like to begin now by referring, if you like, to the economic indicators that haunt the country's economic situation and growth, as you can imagine, which, in your days, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, of the Couple, have deteriorated and are only presented as a target. So listen: EUR 185 billion of GDP in 2019 and 1.5% growth rate. In 2020 EUR 165 billion GDP and growth rates -9%. In 2021 it is estimated that growth will be +7%, that is, GDP will be there at 177 billion euros, 3.5% less than 2019 GDP, and, of course, it is presented as a target target, growth will be in normal conditions at 5% plus in 2022, that is to say, to reach 2022 GDP at 2020 levels. This, I beg your pardon very much, Minister, but it is not development, this is a lifeless attempt to reach the levels of evil 2019 - which I would remind you, then SYRIZA ruled. Current account balances: -1.5% in 2019, -6.6% in 2020 and at the same level it is expected to be shaped in 2021. And, of course, I move here to observe and be fair that our country's high dependence on imports, the value of which is 70% higher in absolute numbers than exports, of course, and high energy prices do not help in improving these indicators. However, the EUR 8.9 billion that is the ninth-month balance of the ninth-November of 2021, which is certainly less than EUR 2.1 billion of the 2020 balance, is four times more than EUR 2.1 billion of the 2019 balance deficit. Of course, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on Sunday in his debate here in plenary, has abruptly landed us for development, if you like. He prepared us for the enhanced supervision and investment that we are still looking for. These are, therefore, the indicators of economic development of the country that either we want it or not are in line with the development that the development law intends to take off with the barbaric title 'Greece - Powerful Development' that we are discussing today. Look, surely development law is a very powerful development tool for strengthening small and medium-sized businesses and, of course, attracting investment. So I will tell you here - as long as I have left - why this objective will not be achieved with the bill we are discussing today. First of all, because there is no clear priority as regards the areas to be supported and I am explaining. There is no strategic planning for the anyway finite resources of the development law. There seems to be some priority in tourism. The rooms and the tourist bus industry, which was hit very badly during the pandemic period, still remain outside, but new branches appear that do not seem to need to be strengthened. And I am referring to: rehabilitation and rehabilitation centres, nursing houses, machinery laundry, ironing services. In fact, I should like to remind you here that in 2019, in an amendment, courier, delibery services, industries in which there was a natural advantage and no reason to motivate them. Significant technical management difficulties will arise because of its complexity. There are thirteen investment schemes. It takes thirteen different information systems, thirteen evaluation drivers, thirteen control drivers. The main feature of the bill is support for large enterprises. At the same time, the draft law stipulates support for small enterprises, excluding small individual enterprises, increases the costs for the investor, requires a loan from a bank prior to the application. The final result will be the intensity of inequalities, the accumulation of power in a few large businesses, when small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our economy, assuming some crumbs. The aim of the bill is to give the private sector as much as possible, an objective fully compatible with the overall policy of the current government on reducing the public sector by the state at its disposal. We have seen the results, ladies and gentlemen, on the Attica Road, where the expertise from public services will also be lost to control the private sector. On the other hand, and with weakened services, there is a great deal of power in the Ministry with a corresponding limitation of powers in the regions. There is also a very large concentration of power among the Minister himself, who will decide who will entrust the evaluation, how to control an investment in the event of delays and, indeed, in the investment projects for which the regions and the Ministry of Macedonia are responsible. In this way, decentralisation is limited and, as you can see, transparency itself is limited. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I will close with this: three days during the debate on the motion of censure and one day, today, we have had financial miracles. So, the bad thing with you is that the Greeks who, if they believe you and see the cows fat - as with fanaticism, you and your colleagues have been supporting throughout this debate - will not wonder why in their wallet there is no dilemma of this prosperity? They won't understand that at your table they're not invited? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society, if you have not understood it, is in a nervous crisis because of the major problems it faces. Fiasco in the treatment of weather phenomena, fiasco in the treatment of fires, fiasco in the treatment of pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u213	Shut up with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u214	Today, every day we have hundreds of dead people. We have even exceeded deaths in Britain and Russia. Fiasco in the accuracy and fiasco, too, in the fight against crime, despite the press releases issued every day by the Minister of Civil Protection that crime has been reduced for his days. Today we had in Thessaloniki the appalling event of the death of a nineteen-year-old child with sick leave - if we have our God!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u215	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u216	Fiasco in dealing with accuracy, fiasco with poverty that is plagued by Greek households. Hey, you don't even call it growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u217	Be well, thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u218	Secondly, just to listen to this House, does Mrs Jackie understand the absurdity of the argument. In order to defend her friend, Mr. Polakis, she said about the phrase "as something is being filed, recovered" which is absolutely legally certain and can also happen legally. Apparently, if new evidence is found for someone, they can retrieve the file. But if new evidence is found for you, you might go to jail tomorrow. That's true. Whatever's true of you, it also applies to me and everyone. If someone finds something, they might be charged, that's what you said. While you said that, for the archiving, implying that me and those of us who have been filed are no longer guilty, since forever we can get out of the file, at the other time you said that it is unacceptable to violate the presumption of innocence for Mr Vaxvanis and Mrs Papadakou. That is, for us who have been filed, not only is there no presumption of innocence that we have been filed - because at any time we can stop being filed in Jacquere - but for your friends 'A! Do not violate the presumption of innocence!’. Such liars and hypocrites are you, so that's why the Greek people have you where it has you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u220	No, Mrs. Jackie, no, she didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, please, I rarely use staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u222	Please, we've been talking now. He addressed you, didn't swear you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u223	I now want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u224	Please. Why are you upsetting me, Mrs. Jackie, now?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, please, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u226	I don't have a second, too, 'cause you're gonna have to answer. He'll answer, he doesn't keep them, he won't let him fall down. Georgiadis is him, please don't do this to me, I just got up. Please very much, it's nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, because it is Georgiadis that my colleague should not answer on his own behalf?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u228	Come on, 'cause with women, I'm good. Wait a minute, here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u229	Mr Georgiadis, your relationship with the truth has been captured - I would say this - in the ears of the entire Greek people, when you made a television intervention at the SKAI TV station you said that the Prime Minister is not only entitled to lie, but he must also lie when it comes to the good of tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u230	Mrs. Jackrey, you told me personal and there's no staff now. What did he say at the SCA? Why are you sad at me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u231	So, Mr Georgiadis, when you tell me a liar and I am in any case hiding the truth, they have found - as I have said before - all Greeks what your relationship is with the truth, and most of all what relationship with the truth you are giving to the man who defends himself. From that point on, you can't understand it, because you're not a lawman. Another thing to do is to do what I told you before, which is common and I told you that for the legal world it is about a slightly common place, namely that when there is new evidence, a file, a case-file, can be recovered from the archive, Mr Georgiadis, and another thing to say to the judiciary what decision it has to make. I told you, it's completely different. I do much more when this suggestion to justice - which is straight, Mr Georgiadis - is made by the Prime Minister himself. Yes, Mr Georgiadis, in this case there is a direct interference in justice, in the past no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u232	One suggestion on this issue, yesterday. I have a feeling - be careful, I don't say speak, speak to God! - that yesterday's theme was exhausted. Members have said, many Members have said, and so on. Don't blow the spark any more so it won't light any fire. Please. The bill has a lot of ground for criticism and don't waste time, a two-minute, a three-minute, talk about yesterday. We arrived at 20:30, and since this morning it's called. It's my encouragement, through my heart, to tell you with a lot of love.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u233	If the Minister speaks after every speaker, we will never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u234	You're right, Mrs. Gara. What am I supposed to do? I'm just telling you. Anyway, that's enough! We shall continue to listen to the same things on the one hand and on the other. Mr Manosos Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I take note of your suggestion. But it is not because, in some cases, things are going on critically, we all feel the need to say what it means to us. I shall therefore be very brief on that. We had most of us in this Chamber, regardless of the fact that we hoped that since the Greek people got out of this room on the Golden Dawn that we would never live again tents of Parliament's imperfection, scenes like those we saw yesterday. Our hope has been disproved. Why, you see, it may not be here the Golden Dawn, however, some view the audience who believe that the Golden Dawn had. Because he has, badly lied, and always such attitudes in part of society, unfortunately, find themselves resonance. The Civic Opposition to the same audience aimed both in the same ways and through the same face. It's the same thing and the problem isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u236	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u237	I regret to pity you, ladies and gentlemen, but you will hear it, because the problem is not Mr Paulakis, the problem is Mr Tsipras. Because, if he wanted, we'd follow a different policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u238	You like SYRIZA and Golden Dawn? Get it back! Rescind!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u239	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u240	So I come to the debate on the bill. The development law is necessary, it has always been necessary, because in our home country we need to fill an investment gap. An investment gap, which was one of the main reasons for bankruptcy 12 years ago, the double deficits in which the weak production base of our country took place. There were, of course, previous years’ development laws. Did they pay off? The results show that not enough. They have not changed our country's productive model to move towards high-value industries and sectors that create high-value jobs. It is characteristic that most of the funds in the development laws had gone to renewable energy sources, useful and beneficial for other reasons, but not producing jobs and traditional tourism activities. What's changing today? First of all, administrative practice has changed and before this government legislated. The 2016 SYRIZA Development Law, which was based with many positive elements, took two years to be activated. It was 1 billion euros, the SYRIZA law's full plans for the days of SYRIZA, and the same law of SYRIZA included 3 billion euros of investments during the country's governance period from New Democracy. What are the changes in outlines from now on, in addition to the special practice that made things run faster? First of all, the law is set up in thematic sections, as they are said, so that it can be targeted. It is no longer a horizontal invitation to 'come those who want to submit proposals'. The notices of development law are being defined, and I shall mention only as headlines some areas that I consider to be very critical, which are provided for in the development law: processing. This is where we are expecting jobs. I shall mention the agri-food sector. Tourism, with two categories, support for tourism in general and alternative forms of tourism. I shall mention the new business, the digital transition and so on. This development law also collaborates with the forecasts of the Fair Transition Fund, in order to increase the total available money and the overall funding rates. In Crete, for example, we already have a 40% aid rate for large businesses, 50% for medium-sized enterprises and 60% for small businesses. It is 60% of the investment project, and this can be increased by 10% even if the government's negotiation with the Commission is successfully completed. It can reach 70% for Crete and the islands, as it is already for Western Macedonia. Particularly important for Crete and elsewhere is a point on which the Ministry of Development, as shown in other bills, listens to the House and the MPs during the debate of the bill. In greenhouses we have had a problem so far, that construction could only be up to 45% of the total investment, which the greenhouses did not catch. So this rate has increased to 60% and this will help to see many new investments in greenhouses. The whole structure of the bill will allow proposals to be assessed more quickly and transparently. I must say that I really do not understand the easy reason in terms of counter-population, that this bill is aimed at large companies. But aid starts from 100,000 euros. Is the aid which is cash-finance only for small businesses and you say that small and medium-sized enterprises are not adequately supported? Two words about tourism before I close. And in the case of tourism, the Ministry of Development has heard during this debate what many Members have said and I feel the need to thank the Minister and the Deputy Minister in particular, because we have had a talk about the non-main tourist accommodation, the rooms, which, even under very strict conditions, are part of a conditional regime for traditional settlements, with a minimum of units, not for the whole country, but for the areas most in need. I want to believe that we will discuss this and further, and we will see further improvements. Of course, it is also the possibility of joining the hotel development unit and lower than the four stars, since they are upgraded and gone for more or to upgrade their product in general. It is important to see that in tourism we need support with an emphasis on quality. And quality doesn't always match most stars. What we're interested in is not how luxurious the tourist who comes may be, too... Just a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u241	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u242	What we are interested in is the total added value for the country, to disperse to as much of the local economy as possible the income coming from tourism. This is achieved by small units, or by three-and-a-half hotels and accommodations, rooms and so forth. But there's one more thing. I am pleased to see that this point is also entered for traditional settlements. As we upgrade our tourism product, we need to preserve our cultural and natural environment. Here is our main shortage and difference in relation to the rest of Europe. Our architectural heritage has so far been dramatically downgraded. What has been saved so far must be able to be saved for the future. The law is excellent. I am sure that in its implementation everything will be fine, so that we can actually get through to the next day of our country's production model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Mr. Ioannis Sarakiotis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. He's SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I, too, would like to pay tribute to the memory of the heroes Karathanassis, Vlahaku and Yalopsos, who gave their lives in 1996 in the Imian crisis, as in fact we have also paid tribute to the government for four years, as we have done so by ignoring the attacks at the time of the officials of the New Democracy when they said that we are provoking these moves to the Aegean Sea. Today you need to suffice in a twit. This is the price you pay, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy to the heroes of the Imian people. Patriotism on Twitter. But what could anyone expect, when elections were held during the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, you were indulging in a patriocaly recital and days ago we heard from the Greek Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, saying in an interview that the name does not bother him, nothing was lost by the name. So I too wish good courage and good strength to the Prime Minister, but also to his ministers for the titanic effort they are making to support the European perspective of northern Macedonia. Before I come to the contents of the bill under discussion, I have to make a brief comment on yesterday's, unprecedented in the post-government, unacceptable position of the Bureau, which reminded us of other times. One question: is it possible, in 2022, to question the freedom of Greek-elected MP and his right to buy from the Step of the Parliament on major issues of the country? Is it possible for the President-in-Office to remove the floor simply because he does not agree, does he not like what he says? You have chosen the slippery path of coexistence with corruption and complexity. You are consensual with judiciaries and you are promoting amendments to serve them, even in violation of the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. You have launched a conflict within Parliament in order to divert public debate from the major problems faced by Greek society today and not to provide the necessary responses to the health tragedy we have experienced, especially in recent months, for economic problems, especially in the energy and growth sectors, the accuracy of households and businesses. Your tactics are deeply undemocratic. The political system and society have fought for decades to end with these fascist attitudes. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will not resurrect these behaviours. We will not allow you to do so, no matter how much the nostalgics of those days currently have top positions in the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be a lie if we said that the content of the new development law under discussion was some kind of surprise. It doesn't surprise anyone anymore. After all, you have made sure to give your credentials through the Pissaridis project, as well as the subsequent recovery plan, which, instead of being seen as an opportunity for the substantial transition of the Greek economy to a resilient, fair and sustainable productive model, has become a tool for increasing inequalities. So now, instead of the development law being the occasion of a definitive recovery of the Greek economy, it turns into a mechanism to make inequality. It is not by chance that the reactions of the world of small and medium-sized enterprises, the world of the real economy, which you are constantly insisting on being ignored, are not random. As stated by the GFCM, the new development law will fuel new distortions at individual market level, creating unfair barriers to healthy competition, as a result of the lack of equal conditions for addressing and unequal access to sources of financing, effectively excluding many small enterprises from another financing instrument. The same exclusions in the retail sector as in the retail sector. And happy, ladies and gentlemen of the government, only the representatives of the major business groups say, as was presented in the debate at the meeting of operators. In other words, what the Pissaridis project demands is self-evident: "The domination of one-sided and very small enterprises is a problematic feature". And the question is reasonable: who are you addressing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Who are you legislating for? The interests of whom do you serve? SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance had brought a broad confession - you also admitted it several times to your speakers and the Parliamentary Representative and the Minister during the discussions in the committees - a successful development law, in which very small enterprises were subjected to 42%, 29% small businesses, 18% medium-sized enterprises and 10% large companies, Haritsis-Lambrianidis Law, No.4399/2016. SYRIZA's development law brought two thousand fifty-eight investments, 45.8% tax exemptions and seventeen thousand three hundred eight new jobs. But remember, to make comparisons, what had been rendered by the previous one, that of 2011. It had yielded a thousand two hundred sixty-seven-seven investments, 15% tax exemptions and six thousand-sixty-seven new jobs. The results from the 1998, 2004 and 2011 development laws as a whole are indicative: Only 2.4% of the investment projects attracted 43.6% of the total investment. Each job cost the Greek public 323,000 euros. In a total of fourteen thousand five hundred investment projects, only six business groups absorbed 8.1% of total aid, which you are planning to do now, leaving one in both companies without even being able to submit an integration programme. What's the result? In 2015, the SYRIZA government received thousands of outstanding investment projects. The incomplete investments of the previous laws were about six thousand and unconventional debts, about 5 billion euros. At the same time, there was no systematic recording or framework for these projects. What was your strategy until then? You have just integrated investment projects, without planning, with no care to finance them, without adequate evaluation. Despite this, you choose to dismiss the successful deposit of this policy as well as the 2016 law and to be irresponsibly experimented on the backs of Greek citizens and the real economy. SYRIZA and the President of Alexis Tsipras suggested, in time, that the selection procedure for accession should be based on the diffusion of the economic benefit in society, the avoidance of all forms of social exclusion, the increase in domestically produced value, the balanced development of the regions of the country, the dynamic transformation of the Greek economy. As it is obvious, in the development law you have tabled and you bring it to the vote, we have not been heard. On the contrary, enter a centralised model, with the Minister becoming the ultimate regulatory factor, in the standards of the executive, central state of Maximos. You are insisting on the same problematic recipe, which leaves the real economy undisturbed, without tools to address the consequences of the crisis, and without question that our country today is a champion in the cost of wholesale electricity, one in four companies says that it does not have cash and we are in the first place in youth unemployment at 38%. The relationship between the Government of New Democracy and the figures is clearly problematic in the area of research and innovation, which should be the front of our country's development perspective. Instead, it is treated by the current leadership of the Ministry of Development as the field of communication propaganda and the conduct of superstition statements. I am not referring exclusively to the relevant articles of this bill, but to the overall work for the benefit of political and communication purposes of a critical sector, that of research and innovation, which could function multiplierly in terms of the development of the Greek economy. Indicative example was the attempted smuggling with the expenditure for research and development in 2020, when the Ministry of Development presented to the greatest success of the decade the increase in expenditure by EUR 135.8 million for 2020 compared to 2019, and it is known that in 2019 we had an increase of EUR 158 million compared to 2018 in 2018, in 2018 we had an increase of EUR 140 million compared to 2017 and in 2017 we had an increase of EUR 284 million compared to 2016. And it is obvious - I imagine the Minister of Development is aware - that 135 - you are on board - is somewhat less than 284 of the growth in 2017. This is the definition of a hunger. If you believe you can systematically deceive the country's research world and then claim to incorporate research and innovation into the country's development planning, you are wrong. And in what long-term planning are you talking about, when on the one hand you guarantee that the programming of the new actions of the ELIDEEC is completed in 2024 and that the funding of the whole of the actions has been guaranteed for the years 2021-2029, but on the other hand you are making deceiving leaks, in order to affect the validity of the institution set up at SYRIZA, the ELIDEEC, which has made a decisive contribution to dealing with Brain drain both with the withdrawal of the scientific potential and with the return of the scientists abroad, as half of the beneficiaries, 45% of the scholarships of doctors and postdoctors have said they would leave the country if they did not receive this grant from the ELIDEEC. Ladies and gentlemen, your policy is material and deadlocked and this proves to be abundant in this bill, which is the tip of the iceberg. It recommends another episode in a number of decisions and policies, such as the projects of the Pissaridis Committee, the recovery and resilience plan, the new regional aid map, the industrial strategy. Unfortunately, the absence of vision, the absence of planning is also evident in this bill and, unfortunately, the citizens are sure that they have nothing to expect from the New Democracy Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you too for keeping time. Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, the Jewish Alliance, followed by Mrs Panagiota Dunia from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u246	The events that we lived in this Parliament yesterday are shocking and not just shocking us, shocking any democrats and any democrats, because what we have experienced was the flagrant abolition of the democratic right of Members to express themselves freely. In other words, parliamentarians were censored within the temple of democracy, as we used to call the House. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how many miles is this catastrophe coming, when is the end coming, for how much will we tolerate it? Since we are discussing development today in the light of the debate on development law, I wonder how much it contributes to the development of the restriction of rights and freedoms. Can there be growth in terms of all citizens, when the rule of law is restricted and promoted rhetorical logic by continuously strengthening strife and corruption? Can there be private sector growth and support when public services and public infrastructure are constantly shrinking, when public property is sold? Can there be growth when accuracy is looting, when there is no health or environmental security, where regional, small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded? What development model do you promote, for how many and for whom, gentlemen of the government, when you exclude most of the Greek production class from the participation of incentives? Could there be growth when in Evros, in my region, have you frozen or cancelled significant infrastructure projects such as irrigation and flooding roads, which were approved and financed by the previous government? Can there be growth when the advantages of primary production are not exploited and farmers are not really supported in order to develop processing in this area? Can there be growth when you canceled the recovery of the Circe mines in Evros of EUR 5 million, a condition for the development of this region, for environmental restoration, while at the same time abolishing the management bodies of Dadia and Delta and ignoring the energy communities that could give growth through energy communities in small local communities? Can there be growth when you are constantly closing or dismantling public services, when you are privatising the port of Alexandroupolis and have left the Thrace strategy in a strong transit energy hub for south-eastern Europe, when you have abandoned even transnational major agreements signed by the SYRIZA Government, such as the Egnatia Rail or the ‘Sea2sea Project’, combined transport projects that can give an incredible perspective to the Thrace region? Can there be growth when the existing companies are not supported, but does your policy lead to suffocation, padlocks, unemployment and depopulation of the extreme region of Thrace? I could report a lot of your devastating things to Evros. I could mention many of the consequences that your policy leaves in Thrace. However, unfortunately, the only 'investment', if you allow me the term, which is progressing at a rapid pace - as it is, unprecedentedly rapid - is the extension and increase of PICKA's tonnage in the prison, an area on the border of our country of EUR 23 million to serve - whose contractor, but also your disastrous immigration policy, which loads all the burden on the Aegean islands and on Evros? Is that how you create a safety and development environment in local communities? So you create a field of investment security and development for the remote region of Evros? So will you attract investment and support border regions? It is a rhetorical question, however, that the citizens have understood, ladies and gentlemen, that the fine, great governmental words about development are hollow and hypocritical, as hypocritical was the establishment of the Intergroup for Thrace Development, since none of them, but none of the conclusions of the conclusion, are included in the development law. In fact, just yesterday and last week, documented proposals for strengthening the outermost regions in special regimes, with specific provisions within the development law, were tabled by the Chamber of Economic Affairs and the Association of Industry and Craft Excavations and all these you ignored. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government with the 2016 Development Act created a new, sustainable, including fair development framework with emphasis on extroverted innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, knowledge intensity, high added value, tax exemptions, cost reductions, digitisation and support for border regions. The New Democracy brings us today a law that returns us to failed logic and policies of the past that bankrupt the country and Thrace - very characteristic in Thrace - they left us deaf. It is another bill for a few and selected with photographic provisions for the service of a different day, a bill of Athenian center, of which the great loser will be the region, without precedent and strategy, with opaque procedures, without provision for strengthening processing, a bill that brings together superpowers to the Minister, premiums strong groups against small and medium-sized enterprises and small ones, intensifies regional disparities. You remove responsibilities from the regions, you also introduce 'cutters' and you also put a cap on investment projects submitted to the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace. You are also disproportionately in favour of the most developed regions, excluding decentralisation and regional development. Your indifference, gentlemen, is such that you even deny today, despite our proposals, despite our calls, to apply the provisions of the SYRIZA Government's resolution of 2019, which provided for the strengthening of existing enterprises in border areas such as Evros, with the grant of operating, energy, labour and transport costs. You are also proposing to the new development law that micro-enterprises, which do not have access to bank financing, should be excluded from the aid provided. Increase the investment costs at the same time, you put as a condition the approval of a loan from the bank prior to the application. Double the minimum amount of the investment. You are doubling the aid ceilings for big people, and at the same time you are condemning small businesses to death with your overall policy. Legislation as if you don't understand what environment we're in. Your only concern is to serve specific interests and this is photographed throughout the bill. That's why you joined the development law, with a previous amendment, the gold mining. And we wonder if that's the future and the development you're evangelizing about Thrace. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, we have passed laws to ensure and strengthen regional development and social cohesion, to eliminate inequalities, to support industry and business in the remote Greece of small and medium-sized enterprises, to process, to farmers, to innovation. Even in a suffocating economic environment. You are reducing resources, strangling every prospect of regional development, increasing disparities, increasing poverty, strengthening desertification, insecurity, unemployment and Brain drain. But the answer, ladies and gentlemen, to the most devastating government that has passed through this place will soon be given by the people and will send you to history. You and your policy. And it will send you there as the most irreversible, incompetent, right-hand parentheses that has ever passed through the country. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u247	You're welcome. Mrs Panagiota Dunia has the floor from New Democracy. Before we go to Mr. Burnus, the Minister will make a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a difficult period of economic, social and health crisis, our country is once again making a positive mark on the economy and entering a development path. The main instrument in this transition is investment. We have already recovered our international credibility by attracting significant investments by large multinational companies such as "MICROSOFT", "PFIZER", "CISCO" and many others. This upward investment course must not only continue, but must be intensified. This is what comes to ensure that the new development law, the attraction of new investments and the creation of new jobs. Because growth and unemployment are not going together. Some people ask why the government has chosen to create a new development law and not to supplement or amend existing Law 4399/2016. The answer is simple. Because the current law does not meet the needs and requirements of the transformation of the Greek economy. This is because it allows low-priced enterprises to play an extremely large role in the economy, focusing on economic activity in traditional sectors of low-innovation, with a fatal effect on low productivity growth. Our development policies so far have not encouraged the business community to design and develop investment initiatives and innovative ideas in all sectors of the economy. The green and digital transition was difficult and slow, as incomplete was the development of high-value products and services. That is why the Greek performance in the digital economy and society network is disappointing. I would remind you that we are in the twenty-seventh place of the European Union between the twenty-eight Member States. At the same time, the indicator for high-growth employment in innovative sectors is in 2.5 for Greece, the European average is 5.2. It is now time to support the new modern trends in the development of investment initiatives, such as research activities and digital transformation. The new development law we are debating today sets out a single framework in this direction. A framework that will cover the country's investment needs exclusively and not fragmentally. So let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what exactly is provided for in the new law. The new law introduces two important changes. The first concerns the establishment of thirteen thematic State aid schemes for investment projects in all sectors of business. This change complies with Union State aid law and on the basis of the planned percentages of the Regional Aid Charter 2022-2027. In other words, we no longer have the horizontal form of aid schemes in force. The latter introduces major innovations throughout the process of presenting, evaluating and controlling investment projects and the procedures for adopting the relevant administrative instruments. This is done in order to enable the immediate benefits of giving the particularly attractive incentives to these business initiatives. This ensures that the law is effective by removing bureaucratic obstacles with facilitations in the approval procedures, by abbreviating the time for responding to the requests submitted and by making use of the new information system developed to support this new development law. Turning now to the thirteen aid schemes envisaged, we find, among other things, the digital and technological transformation of enterprises, the environmental upgrading of enterprises, the new business the special development transition regime, large investment, entrepreneurship 360, research and applied innovation, but also the entrepreneurial extroversion. At the same time, we see how tourism and manufacturing investment are being strengthened, such as the agri-food sector. Special attention shall be paid to investments in areas of fair growth transition by providing for increased rates. The less favoured regions are being strengthened, new entrepreneurship is being supported, and competitiveness in areas of high added value is also improved. Very importantly, the new law also establishes incentives to boost employment with qualified staff. In particular, there is a tax exemption, a leasing subsidy and a wage subsidy. On the other hand, for small and micro-enterprises, all types of aid will be provided, including the grant. At the same time, the types, content and method of payment of the planned aid are specified and the sources of funding are identified for all the types of aid referred to above. The new development law comes for a vote in the period beginning with the NSRP's new 2021-2027 programming period, the Recovery Fund is organised, a number of European Commission regulations on State aid are being amended and the new regional aid map 2022-2027 has been adopted with increased rates of State aid for most regions of our country. That is why most of the new law's schemes have been developed in forms that can be financed by the ESDP or the Recovery Fund. As far as State aid is concerned, this is now expected to amount to about EUR 1 billion. In other words, the conditions of a modern, flexible, efficient and above all transparent investment system are created. Ladies and gentlemen, as it is understandable, the legislation being passed is the new institutional instrument for the development of the Greek economy, a tool that meets the modern requirements of entrepreneurship and promises to increase new forms of investment, strengthen less favoured areas of the country, support for innovative investment projects such as those that introduce new technologies, industry 4,0, robotic and artificial intelligence. Above all, however, it is a law aimed at investing in more and more parts of the country. It is, in fact, a development law that develops new jobs and aims to transform Greece into the most pro-investing destination in Europe. For all these reasons, I think it is a self-evident obligation for all of us to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u249	Thank you too for keeping time. You've heard my exhortation. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u250	Only one comment for the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman. In the abstraction of your speech, Mr. Parliamentary Representative, you said 'you have excluded retail trade from development law'. Could you point us, please, to the previous SYRIZA development law, where was retail trade included? Because we are the bad guys who ruled out retail trade, please very much until the end of the meeting, you guys who legislated in 2016 in which article of your development law included retail trade. Just stuff. Either you've included it and we've cut it, and so we're the bad guys, and we're good at the retail world, or it's just that retail trade has never been included in any development law, so nothing has changed in this regard with the present one. Just stuff. This is a parliament. In terms of effectiveness now, you will allow me to only have to say the numbers from the official electronic recording system, which cannot be called into question, because this is where all the submissions are posted and going to the companies and see what money they will get. In the agri-foodstuffs sector you joined 80.29 companies a year. We include 386.4 per year, an increase of 381%. In the logistics chain, you joined 5,43 companies a year. We're 42.8. 688% increase. You incorporated 59,43 companies per year into the process. We incorporated 160 businesses a year. A 69% increase. In tourism you joined 133,71 companies a year. We incorporated 473,2. Elevation of 25%. You incorporated 6,57 companies a year into the service. We're 28,4. 332% increase. With regard to the overall sum now, you two hundred and eighty-five enterprises each year. We're a thousand ninety. 282% increase. I'm sorry, we have an annual increase with your own law and from your own 282% period. How much more effective can we be? Okay, I want to be honest. The fact that we compare with you makes our work easier and, indeed, we cannot say that we did something terrible, because it is 282% of you. But, in any case, coming to us and telling us 'Well, from SYRIZA, you are 282%', to accept it. But is it possible for SYRIZA to make suggestions of effectiveness with these numbers from the electronic system? So because you blame us for the fact that we ruled out retail trade, I very much ask you to tell me where it was in the previous development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u251	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u252	Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u253	I would just like to thank the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, for exalting the SYRIZA bill of 2016. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u254	Mr. Ioannis Burnus is now being called to Stepma by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mrs. Fotini Arabaji from New Democracy is now being called.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, you have not said anything about beautiful Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u256	So Mr Burnus has the floor from the beautiful Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Firstly, the representatives of a party that has as top ministers people who have young photographs in the marches of the Golden Dawn or who were presidents of the youth of Papadopoulos have great courage here today to parallel SYRIZA with the Golden Dawn. Secondly, I am very pleased that the President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulos, took his stand today, as he presided over last night, Mr Athanasios, allowing Mr Polakis to exhaust his speech by speaking of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Thirdly, why have you caught such a thing when you hear the word 'NOVARTIS'? No, of course, because within you are appalling what you are saying in public, this funnyness of construction by speaking of a huge international scandal with endings in our country, but because your problem as a party that considers itself a legitimate owner of the country is that some dared to seek responsibility. Let's go to the bill now. What is, then, the legislative necessity of the bill we are discussing? The previous development of 2016 worked well and brought better results than the law that replaced both jobs and investment and with less participation of tourism in the investment mix. In these cases it is common to present an estimate of the previous law and a documentation of the improvements to be made. In our case, the justification for the new law should initially be sought in communication - that would be missing with this government! - so that the record of the Pissaridis Committee can be framed in a communication, that is, the propaganda of a new reformist and developmental spirit that will change Greece. However, it must also be sought on very substantial grounds, as it is part of a great strategy for the implementation of which this government has come to power or better have brought it to power. Because what will really change in Greece will be the way and the extent that large groups and friends in the government and the Prime Minister take care of development resources, the NSRF and the Development Fund. The formal procedure, in which this redistribution of resources from smaller companies to large and friendly groups is to be done, is the well-known state of service: the concentration of power in Maximos, its ministers and the party posters of all of you. The bill restricts the powers of the regions and brings them together to the Minister in Athens. Why are you doing this? For the obvious reason, for even greater isolation, for the enclosure of decisions and planning by the world of small and medium-sized enterprises, its local bodies and its needs. The projections of the bill favour larger companies. You have come to double the minimum investment heights and aid ceilings, you exclude medium-sized enterprises from grants, it is charged with increased costs - especially the smaller ones - by involving banks prior to approval of the projects and the sworn accountants in evaluation and control, i.e. for functions that have been done before public services, and here a silent and underground 'licensing' of the state and privatising services that will now have to be paid, is assumed that the services of the Ministry of Development will check whether everything is done properly. Except when they are absent from most of the phases of approval, certification and evaluation of investment projects, they will ultimately not have the technological knowledge to do so and weaken the state role, the state expertise and the investor who is supposed to facilitate investment. Transaction and corruption safeguards are rather naive if you think private scholars and auditors cannot undertake such procedures. It is obvious, of course, that companies in the region will be affected, not only by the removal of powers from regional government, even with the well-known complication that accompanied them, but also with the obstacles that we have mentioned that you are putting small businesses, such as almost all the businesses in the province, in particular in remote laws such as my own. Moreover, the forecasts for the rural investment projects - that they must have an integrated original investment character - exclude investment projects modernising part of the production process, i.e. projects for most of the existing agri-food enterprises. Even worse for tourist enterprises is exempted from aid from the three star hotel units, i.e. about all the hotels in the remote islands, and precisely this part of the tourism sector, which is, in the majority, unprecedented in development law, should be strengthened. Who are you legislating for anyway? You are permanently operating from high and arrogant as if you do not know the consequences of pandemic and energy inflation in the economy, especially in the smaller companies we have in the region, and we think that in such circumstances small and medium-sized enterprises will have more money to invest, with the new investment thresholds and will, in fact, be approved by the banks, the known banks to which the investment is assigned as an assessment and pre-authorisation role before joining the developmental, unprecedented and unprecedented. It is necessary to have a state body providing credit or guaranteeing it to enterprises in the developing world, the next government will take over it, or that private banks, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are as if there are not for most companies unless you know thousands of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are currently able to cross the threshold of a bank. Finally, with the amendment of the Ministry of Immigration, which obviously relates to the construction of the closed structure on the basis of three Lesbos. A step further to his environment. Mitaraki on our islands, which will not only build in this way I want huge refugee structures in the eastern Aegean, so that the mayors of the mainland are not disturbed and of course the government's extreme right-wing friends in Europe do not worry, but it will not give account to other ministries about how it builds them. The Ministry's technical service will have the sole competence. And what technical service? The one that, alone throughout the public administration, is managed by posted officials of the Minister. Administration, state and party, everything merges into one, precisely because this is the only way the most provocative arbitrage can pass. Whether or not they are going to pass in the case of Vastrias, we will see it in the next few days, since, as we discovered, last night as thieves some people carried the machines in the space that Mr. Metarakis hopes to do. So it is challenging to arbitrariness, but also to favor interests, as well as to arrogant and indifferent management. Society, ladies and gentlemen of the government, suffocating and drowning, and sooner or later it will scan you. The sooner, the better for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Burnus. The new Republic and the beautiful Prefecture of Serres is now called at Step. We're nice, because we're Seraeus. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that until I get to the Step Flemish with the encouragement of the President-in-Office not to arouse this bill by referring to yesterday's, but honestly it is what our anointed people say that we want to sanctify, but you do not leave us. I therefore have to refer to what is appalling and sad happened yesterday and today in this Chamber. You know, the last time I wondered what it meant to mean when Paulakis said that "the second time left" would be different. Yesterday and today, of course, we were enlightened by Mr Paulakis and we really thank him for that. We realised in the most violent parliamentary way what that means. The picture of the slogan, Mr. Polakis, here, at the Step of the House, for more than an hour is the exact illustration of this warning about what the "second time left" would mean. It is the imprint of a political culture, not to say sub-culture, which says that when we have the government, or when we have the power, we do what we want, we do not speak to anyone, we do not care about any institution, we trample justice and we control where we can. Besides, Mr Paulakis, if I am not deceived - and there was no denial - spoke of a second school of judges and about how he will send retired servants to justice. We are therefore inspecting justice where we can and when we do not like its decisions, we question them. We are bringing Parliament to fruition, because that is how we like it. We are trying to eliminate our political rivals, with constructions, of course, we divide the Greek people. Yesterday and today, of course, there was also a second sad conscience, which is becoming increasingly strong in the position of fellow Members from the SYRIZA. Who's that? Paulakis and SYRIZA are irrevocably one and the same. I personally hoped that Paul, you are exalted and deformed, former Deputy Minister of Health, is an exception to you within SYRIZA that Mr Tsipras simply has no political courage - for his own political reasons - to isolate him. Unfortunately, yesterday and today you also assured the most well-being that you are fully associated with the sad image of a party that wants to be called the "leavy", which wants to be called "left", but in reality it is deeply populist, deep anti-institutional and unprecedented avenge against its political opponents. I close this part with the third sad conscience, of course, for the Movement of Change which, unfortunately, has surprised us in the last few days, since it seems that his demographic recovery restores behaviour of arrogant nature. Ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, equal distances to Paul and Georgiadis, towards SYRIZA and New Democracy, mean equal distances to Paul and Loverdo, towards Venizelos and Polakis, means non-violent condemnation of a convicted construction set up by SYRIZA against New Democracy and the Change Movement. In politics, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, the silence of neutrality is not gold. ‘Neuterity’ means non-responsibility, it means cowardice and opportunism. I'm coming over to the bill now. The development law, in addition to its obvious importance as a road map for investment, is important and symbolism, because it is essentially the legislative initiative in which the philosophy of the government is reflected on how it perceives the economy over the next decade and what its ambition is to be its development footprint is. In this perspective, the development law we are discussing today reflects entrepreneurship, development, investment, philosophy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. It is a law with which our country is consolidated in the leadership of the most investment-friendly countries, with fundamentally and, I would say, bravely motivated, with rapid procedures, transparent and accountable, by making use of the private sector in assessments. The importance of today, as well as its multiplier effect tomorrow, is, of course, magnified in the more generally positive economic environment that shapes the continuous reductions in taxes and insurance, the effort to halt bureaucracy, the digitisation of the state with a truly inconsistent number, the more effective functioning of the public sector. It is characteristic - the Minister said many figures before - that the approval of investment projects at thirty months of the New Democracy Government increased by 284% compared to four and a half years of SYRIZA. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has taken over from the most hostile to investment and entrepreneurial government in the last decades. The example of the Greek emblematic is the most characteristic. So you deepened your print in the long period of disinvestment of the country - which, unfortunately, started by the economic crisis - which the Pissaridis Committee counts at EUR 130 billion, even worse, that is, of the 110 billion that was the main estimate before the 2019 elections. It is characteristic that our Government has received investment in 10.1% as a percentage of nominal GDP, when the eurozone equivalent was 21.3%. What did we do in 2020? With steady, slow and in spite of the pandemic crisis and the recession, of course, which it causes, the investment rate as a percentage of GDP climbed to 11.1%, so that our country would record the fourth most resilient performance in the Eurozone. Impressively better was the year of 2021, when the investments ran at 11.7% compared to 2020, which is the highest of 15 years. This year, of course, the highest performance of twenty-seven years is to be destroyed, as investment is estimated to increase by 21.9% and 16.7% of nominal GDP in 2025. So the difference is 50% in relation to what you inherited us. Just a moment, Mr President, with your tolerance. In particular, however, the law we are debating today comes to contribute to the increase in corporate investment, in which Greece in 2019 had the lowest percentage, namely 5.4%, between the countries of the European Union and, of course, to the increase in investment in the agri-food sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to set an example. Greek fruit and vegetables recorded a record of exports in the most difficult years of the pandemic crisis both in 2020 and 2021, with two-digit export rates, when traditional countries such as Italy, for example, were acquitted of their exports. So the 60% subsidy for the cost of building a highly extroverted and intensive capital, of course, such as that for the greenhouse gases in which most of the fruit and vegetables are produced and, of course, are exported, is a very important legislative initiative, as well as the fact, Mr Ministers - and I congratulate you on that - that you are putting as potential beneficiaries in the field of agri-food and natural persons in order to give as many incentives as possible for the agri-food sector and, of course, it is - of course - the food industry, which, I am sure - is one/4 of the Greek industry. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are interested in investment, new jobs, the repatriation of our young people, this valuable chapter, which is gradually being carried out, you have nothing but to vote in favour of today's bill with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Mr Alexandros Haritsis has the floor by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and Mr Hadjivassiliou prepares. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Haritsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a comment on the two major crises of this time. First about the health crisis, the pandemic. Today we have 1 February - a good month to everyone! - but January has been closed with our greatest losses of fellow citizens since the beginning of the pandemic, for two years now. Two thousand seven hundred ten fellow men lost their lives. So where is the government's successful management in pandemic? Where's the last mile of the Prime Minister? Where is the Minister of Health, who told us that this year's winter would be much better than last year's? Is everything okay on the pandemic front? The government still believes that? And I come very quickly - unfortunately time is very limited - in the question of accuracy, in the other major crisis. Minister, I heard you before you had a dialogue with a fellow Member. Whatever you say about gas, no matter what you say about Mr Putin, no matter what you say about the international developments and the international implications of this crisis, which, indeed, exist, they exist, but the reality is also very specific. It closed yesterday, January and throughout the month, Greece had the most expensive wholesale price of electricity throughout Europe. That's a reality. One cannot deny this reality because, of course, the international developments and the international consequences of the crisis concern all internationally. It is our country, however, which pays the highest price for this crisis, especially in the energy field, which, as we have said for many months, is also finally the whole economy. I now come to the bill, because, of course, what we are discussing and what we are discussing is not being discussed in a vacant manner. That is why I have referred to these very large crises that we are facing, and it is obviously the developmentist always a bill that is very important, because it reflects precisely the philosophy, the logic that each government has in relation to the country's development strategy. And, of course, in today's treaty of these multiple crises, to which I referred earlier, the transformation of the economy is more imperative than ever - it is a matter of survival, I would say - because the problem of the country - we have said so many times - was and is primarily productive. For decades, unfortunately, there has been a distorted development model in our country, a development model of declining production bases to as few economic actors as possible, to as few sectors as possible - we are essentially talking about shipping, construction and tourism - emphasising major projects, privatisation, private consumption. Where did this lead us? Has the country been established in the international division? The exact opposite happened. We have paid too much for this distorting perception of the development of the new Republic and the PASOK. The strong Greece, as some people then told us, in 1990 and 2000, proved to be a genocide. And the development laws of that period, however, the 1998, 2004, 2011 development law, reflected precisely this inefficient and dead-end model. I do not want to bore too many numbers, but I have to say some elements which I think are too indicative. Some of this has already been said by both our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative. 95% of the projects financed were low and relatively low. Over seven out of ten investments concerned tourism and photovoltaics and only these sectors. 95% was a warm subsidisation, warm money. Where did this all lead? And because I heard a word, Minister, before your speech, which, while you were doing it, I have to say, has a little stimulus and has something to do with the word efficiency you said - so did you not say? I am not mistaken, I do not want to be wrong - in 2015, so to be aware of what we are talking about, the investments in drawers from all the previous development laws of the previous effective implied governments were six thousand, and that was equivalent to 5.5 billion investment funds, which the Greek economy was deprived of, while the mismanagement that it had led to? In imposing a horizontal financial correction by the Commission of 10% - which means, in essence, a fine for the country - because of the opacity phenomena of the whole period. So what were we supposed to do after 2015 at the Ministry of Development? First of all, we had to ensure that the agency of development law would continue to manage European funds, which was not clear at all - believe me - and not certain at the time. We had to clear up and complete these investment projects that had been left in drawers all the previous years. What was the result of this effort? In 2018 four thousand old investments had been completed by those that had remained inactive in previous years and had been paid to investors, that is, 3 billion euros in the economy. I'm talking about the old, the old sins of the old bloc. At the same time, of course, we have also created a new framework, a new, modern development law with a number of important innovations: the High Level of Aid, to strengthen more, as a matter of priority, business projects of knowledge intensity and high added value, priority for small and medium-sized enterprises, re-industrialisation of the country, support for less favoured areas, islands, mountainous, borderline, and soon this has yielded fruit. Minister, because before you used some data, I do not question the evidence, but this is about the implementation of our law, the law of 2016, not about any other law. They show precisely the effectiveness of this law. Seventeen thousand new jobs compared to six thousand from the previous law of 2011, an average number per investment of 7.7 jobs from 4.8 - almost doubled - and a half of expenditure per job and a number of investments more than double, two thousand two hundred fiftys from a thousand seventy-six, while 90% of aid from the 2016 law, according to the Ministry's current figures, - I am not referring to the figures only of that period - relate to very small, small and medium-sized enterprises and only 10% of the large ones. This means supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in practice. Tolerance please for two minutes, Mr President. And while all this is happening, and while we have a law, and we have a law - and you said it before - with these results, you are coming here and you are completely overthrowing it, not explaining why you are doing so enough, and why you are doing so by bringing in another law, which does not make clear priorities in relation to the areas that need to be financed, with a bill that concentrates superpowers on the Ministry and the Minister, a bill which, unfortunately, does not focus on increasing employment, reducing regional disparities and strengthening small businesses, and which, unfortunately, despite your objections to simplification and combating bureaucracy, will lead to significant problems and delays in its implementation. It is a bill in which, as in the government's plan for the Recovery Fund, we unfortunately have the same logic, the same strategy: it focuses on the discriminatory support of very large investment projects. Small and medium-sized enterprises are invited to compete in an unequal and specified competition for the same funds as the very large companies in twelve of the thirteen new law aid schemes, instead of setting a specific rate of aid specifically for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have talked about the regions. From 3 million to 1 million. For the Ministry of Macedonia - Thrace, we've talked about it. Is that how you understand decentralisation? Is that how you understand the strengthening of local and regional development? And I cannot make a reference to the question of energy communities. That is where the funding of the green transition should be started, the funding of schemes that implement this great reform of the SYRIZA. Unfortunately, they're not. No funding is envisaged, as is the case with the Recovery Fund. It's just the same conception. Anything to do with public investment, with your public infrastructure, is foreign. Instead of using resources, because we will, in fact, have the next period, Minister, to manage a very large package of European funding - a new ESDP, a recovery fund, the 'fit for 55', the new CFP, a fair transfer fund - to have a strategic plan that will broaden the country's production base, which will fill the investment gap, you close it even further, you are limiting it to more and less.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u262	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u263	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u264	You asked me for two minutes and I gave them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u265	Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. Because there is a lot of talk of growth, recovery, etc., to say that, in fact, after the 2020 downturn, there will obviously be a recovery. But what form and content of this recovery will be and, above all, what will be involved. The question that should concern us is very clear: do we want Greece to synchronise with international phasing-out of inequalities, fair and sustainable development and productive transformation? I fear that with today's bill, the Mitsotakis Government's answer is negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, too. You stole me three minutes. But the worst part is that you raised the minister! Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor. Under the Rules of Procedure you are entitled to three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr. Haritsis was the Minister of Development for two years, he was the main author of the previous law, and I will also say the Minister of Labour and the Minister of State. I can't answer him. We're talking about a development law, and it's the Minister who made the previous one. So I can't answer that. We didn't deceive the previous law. But I disagree very much with the way you are acting as Opposition to our own law. You say that there is no discussion about the new production model that the country has to have. Excuse me, have you not seen that this bill lays down thirteen regimes which are exactly distinguishing each field in which the Greek economy is going to go and the resources and timetables on which we will be able to take the economy to each one of these fields? Isn't that the production model? And when we say we're talking about a productive model, what do we mean? Above all, this development law has for the first time entered into the essence of what a productive model we want. We want Greece and production, not only Greece services. Also, Mr Haritsis, to deceive SYRIZA in such a great and easy way the economic recovery of 2021, I personally consider it to be petty and not wise politically. Yesterday IOBE came out and made its forecasts for 2021. I guess you saw them. It calculates from 9% to 9.5% that it will be the growth of the Greek economy in 2021. You're going to tell me: But you've had a downturn of 9% in 2020. Sustained. How many European countries, however, Mr Haritsis, will they eventually have achieved in one year to cover the entire damage of 2020? Two? Three? Maybe four. We're in them. The remaining twenty-three or twenty-four will have losses for 2022. We start 2022 from a zero base, as if we were in 2019. This is an impressive achievement of the Greek people, a total of the Greek people, I say not only the Minister of Development or the Deputy Minister for Development or the Government. You can't deceive it that easily. Thirdly, you cannot see that almost every week a major new investment, a great colossus comes and invests in Greece. ‘PFIZER’, after ‘CISCO’, ‘DELOITTE’, ‘MICROSOT’, ‘DIGITAL REAL’, ‘AMAZON WEB SERVICE’, ‘FACEBOOK’, ‘JP MORGAN’. Excuse me, so they saw light, and suddenly they want to invest in Greece? We didn't do anything to make everyone come and deceive it like nothing's happened? So it would be worth making the discussion about the production model seriously. But it would be worth it, and you, too, recognise that there has been a great deal of progress in the law. And I'm closing up with that. You said you received a number of thousands of investment projects in the past that were committing resources. That's right. Welcome. It's true what you're saying. But why did we put the reasonable cost on the bank where you all attacked and said it wasn't right and we made it a little bit more time. Why did we involve the bank and the reasonable cost? Because instead of going to the model 'let everyone come to make an integration to dream that they can once make an investment, but eventually not have the power to make this investment, but to commit the resources because they have been integrated' can be incorporated into the development law this time those who actually come and do so and so they will not commit the resources of others, have, in other words, less clearly demanding and integrated projects because they should be really, but much more that they will eventually be implemented. We are actually doing exactly what you said a moment ago as a problem. That's what we're doing. And you know what you're doing as a party? You blamed us for doing this. You cannot at the same time identify the problem and at the same time do not like the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Haritsis, the parliamentarian, so we don't break hearts!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u271	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Papathanasis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u273	But how many people are going to answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u274	To see how much value we give you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u275	We, Mr Haritsis, have so far had Mr.4399. Today we are voting on a new law. What we have said is that L.4399 does not meet the needs of the time. I'll explain. So when he spoke to you earlier about effectiveness, he judged your effectiveness against ours for the two and a half years in rule over the three and a half years that you ran this law. That's what we compared. 282% is how fast we and more effectively we ran your own law. And if you disagree, the evidence is at your disposal and I'll submit it to the House tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u276	I'll tell you where we disagree if I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u277	I sincerely want you to point out to me what point of the law and what provision is being drawn up for the sectors. I really want it. Tell me to nr.4399 where a strategy is being drawn up for the sectors, because from the statistics you will see that everything was in a bucket, which means that tourism was taking the money and leaving farm food without money. Thirdly, and I would like you to reply to me: show me to the law on what point you have drawn up your strategy for the regions, because you will see regions which have raised resources for processing, while others have not pumped at all. Why didn't they pump at all? Because there were no resources in the bucket to draw. One more thing, Mr. Haritsi. You know very well that the new European policy on digitalisation, the green transition wants and has specific characteristics and there will be resources from both the NSRF 2021 - 2027. How exactly do you imagine that these resources would pass into a general entrepreneurship scheme or to small, micro-enterprises, where more than 150 million have to go for notification and assess the scheme? So these are our basic differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u278	And after you asked Mr. Haritsis to answer, Mr. Haritsis will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u279	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Thank you again for your tolerance. Two ministers were posted. I think I'm entitled for a minute. Mr Papathanassis, because you spoke of effectiveness, what I said from my speech was not understood. In 2015, 2016, 2017 we have been called upon to manage investment projects since 1998. Do you understand what I'm saying now? After more than fifteen years.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u280	Plus yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u281	Plus the new ones. And you tell me now how you are more effective in our law, when you know very well...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u282	Please don't interrupt me if you can. I'll talk for a minute. I will try to be very brief, because other colleagues need to speak. Well, you know very well that to run a law, it takes time. That can't be from one day to the next. And the fact that this law is now running is the result of how this development project was designed in 2016. That is why you said this in relation to how these funds are allocated and who are actually subsidised by it, see the official figures, how, for example, we have enlargement of the sectors, we now have the rate of 72% to 56% for tourism and for PVs and other sectors enter such as processing and industry that did not apply to the previous development laws. Isn't that a sign that this law did produce a result, that it did help? What I told you was strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises is not an indication that it widened precisely the scope of the beneficiaries? Mr. Georgiadis, you have said a lot. Of course I would like to say a word about the development issue first. I don't have anything to do with it. I have already written it - the writings remain - and in my article that the recovery of 2021 is welcome. Of course you have to consult the government about why other things you say, but the Treasury says, if we are talking about growth or recovery. But we won't ruin the words. However, it is a question, Minister - and that is what I said in my speech, and that is a matter of great concern to us, and that also shows the different ideological approach to the issue - who this recovery will ultimately involve. It's not just a nominal matter. It's a question of quality. If we are to go back to a model - I said it before - of the 1990s and the 2000s which concerned few, it was very specific sectors and it led us to the known deadlocks, so that the Greek economy does not need it at this time. I connect this and I close it with the fact - let me comment on it - that you have found nothing to comment on my first two objections in relation to the course of the two major crises of the period: pandemic and accuracy. These are the two major issues of the time for which, unfortunately, I have not heard any comment on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Mr Anastasios Hatzidis has the floor from New Democracy, Seraios, and Mr Stavros Arachovitis, the Lakonas, is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, respect for the types of democracy is the essence of the matter. I wonder, indeed, why in SYRIZA, you are tolerated the violation of parliamentaryism, you are tolerated by the common principles of operation being violated in this Chamber. These, precisely, must all together be safeguarded as an eye daughter. Because the egg of the snake, you know, always lurking and the Greek society has no luxury today for new divisions. The KINAL keeps the same distance between Mr Polakis and Parliament's rules of operation, but this neutrality harms, above all, democracy. Because on difficult issues citizens are asking the political forces for clear positions and KINAL has still not offered them. So here we need great 'yes' and brave 'no'. The ambiguous attitude does not lead. Gentlemen of KINAL, you know very well that the grace period, since you now have new leadership, will eventually end. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a bill that is doing fair growth, which we have heard for years as a mere slogan, a bill reflecting the vision of the Mitsotakis Government of prospects and stable jobs. And it is sad to hear statements from the opposition that this government is supposed not supporting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. They are, obviously, koruna opposition from those who once chased entrepreneurship and the middle class with her. So anyone who reads the bill carefully will see that 97% of the investment projects concern our Greek region, towns and villages. The new regional aid map has a particularly high rate, and we are very much interested in the Serres. So what does that mean? For the first time, the region becomes a hospitable investment destination. This new law therefore coincides with the new programming period of the NSRP. So when we are talking about 'green' transition, about digital transformation of businesses, about fishing, about agro-food sector, then it is clear and clear that this law is aimed at businesses throughout the whole territory. We therefore want to see small and medium-sized enterprises becoming stronger and more competitive, we want to see them standing out with the respective Europeans. And we will succeed because above all we believe in the Greek businessman. In fact, support rates for small and medium-sized enterprises range from 50% to 70%. In addition, this draft law introduces innovative data and for those who want to merge to create larger schemes with increased potential. Today, therefore, only 5% of Greek businesses have over two hundred fifty employees. The Government therefore brings tax incentives to support any form of merger and corporate transformation. So we also support those who want to cooperate. This process will also lead to the reform of the model of the economy, with positive results for workers as well. What are these? It is clear that large schemes are more competitive and can offer more stable employment, better wages and significantly faster professional growth. Ladies and gentlemen, this government respects the trouble, time and resources of Greek entrepreneurs. In addition, they see a partnership with which they share a common vision of advancement and progress. That is why today the way opens up to legislating stable channels of notices, without extensions, so that everyone can plan their initiatives and plan, without pressure, without surprises, without blurred procedures, without fine letters. And here we are talking about a revolution, since we are legislating quick procedures for monitoring and evaluating all investment projects, with a new information system and with the strengthening of the auditors. For the first time, investment projects are being facilitated in areas that are topical, such as research and innovation, the training of workers and the protection of the natural environment. In essence, therefore, the development model responds to modern challenges and modern needs. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has been working effectively to attract new investments. Who would have imagined a few years ago that there would be global colossians in Greece to invest and create jobs and new wealth? Of course, in recent years, the pandemic has, unfortunately, brought up a new reality that has been unprecedented and greatly influenced by business culture, in fact increased the risks and caused major arrhythmias. So today the introduction of a faster and more friendly investment environment is a one-way path to strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economy. The bill "Greece Strong Development" implements this very national objective, comes to give new added value to their businesses, products and services, actually comes to build a modern Greek brand name, because after the pandemic era, the pandemic will have new elements and clearly new different needs. This is exactly what development law covers. It integrates the technologies of the 21st century and finally opens a door to the future. With fast and transparent procedures, with a multitude of tools and emphasising the excellent human potential of our country, the foundations for a strong economy, for the good of our country and our children are laid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u285	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u287	Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u288	I think there was a word for it, colleague. I heard you said KINAL's attitude harms democracy. I think that the image we have given in recent days, both in the motion of censure and in general in the debate, has not been such as to justify that expression. And I don't want to take it against the image of the two parties, who hurt democracy. So we should be very careful about this expression. As far as the part of the grace period is concerned, I would like to know, from whom do we get a period of grace? You know, we're a parliamentary party. We're not here to fight us. Well, be very specific. So I would ask that it 'damages democracy' be taken back. We have not given such political rights, and in our attitude these days, politics and institutionalism, and as far as the latter is concerned, time will judge it from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u289	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u290	Only if you get it back or not, Mr. Hatzidis, not secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I would like to say that the stance taken by KINAL is counterproductive to the functioning of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u292	That's something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u293	We expect you to have clear positions to tell us where you want the country to go first. And in the debate on the motion of censure you have followed a similar ambiguity. You told us, in fact, 'no' to the government, but at the same time 'no' to the elections. The citizens, then, have given this moment to correct a honey season in KINAL, since you have a new leadership, and we wish you a good success. But problems want clean solutions, they want large 'yes' and large 'no's. That's what we expect from you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u294	That was something else now. Mr. Pana, we're closing it here. Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, and I would ask you to prepare Mr Constantinidis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days, it has tended to be a dangerous practice, to become a regular in this Chamber the closure of microphones. The deprivation of the freedom of expression of parliamentarians is turning us back to other times, and it wants great attention from all of us, because it can lead to dangerous atrocities. That is why we have to condemn the closure of the microphones to our colleague Paul Polakis. With regard to the NOVARTIS scandal, I would like to sincerely hear the view of government colleagues and the government: is there or is there no NOVARTIS scandal in Greece? Did the United States set up a supermarket in the multinational to get it money? So, what's going on? What's your opinion? And while we all know the answer - you know well that the "NOVARTIS" scandal in Greece exists - you have created a technical intensity in order to disorientate the debate. And why? You are trying to change the agenda from the multiple defeat suffered by the government during the three-day debate of distrust here in the House. You are trying to change the agenda from the accuracy, which consumes citizens' incomes, from electricity to food, new appreciations on the shelves of supermarkets, farmlands, feed everywhere. You are trying to change the agenda from the twenty-four thousand dead, which many of them could have saved if your idea of refusing to support the public health system had not led you there. You are trying to get away from the bug of the “Furthite-gate” scandal, which sinks half the government. But these are outdated communal turfs and they don't work in society anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the development issues. The figures for the implementation of the n. 4399/2016 advocating a conclusion. I am talking about the evidence you have presented, and we are obviously not questioning it. They advocate that the law of SYRIZA had begun to render. That is why it would be more useful and more productive to see the time figures and not the period-period, to see the evolution of applications and approvals and not the period-period. It would be more productive and I think it would be more effective for people to understand what is actually happening. Because the reality is - and for those who know - that a development law takes a year to grow and we need to remember, of course, that just in August 2018, the country came out of the memos. So he allowed, gave the businesses air to invest. And of course, we must thank you for recognising the effectiveness of the work of n. 4399 you've been doing so far. So you've made us a very good commercial, we have to say. But take care now, ladies and gentlemen, to see where the basic elements are. The 2011 Act set aside the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises - it is well-known - for the benefit of the larger companies. In 2016, the SYRIZA law was coming to overthrow this key target of the 2011 development and reintroduce to the game of state aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are also a major part of entrepreneurship in Greece. The size of the subordinated entities in the 2016 Development Act is analysed in 42% micro-enterprises, 29% small, 19% medium-sized enterprises - total of 90% - and only 10% large enterprises. So you bring this bill to overthrow that logic. Otherwise, as you admitted, there was no real reason to change and create a new development law. So the reason is the overthrow of philosophy and the targeting of development law with the law you bring. And you're turning us back to 2011 logic. Unfortunately, as I said before, these elements also apply to businesses in the agri-food sector, and that is what the world has to understand. 98% of enterprises in the agri-food sector belong to the underprivileged, small and medium-sized enterprises. So they'll be in an unfavourable position again. It's typical of the law the previous one, the n. 4399, is that 44% of the integrated projects were investments in the agri-food sector, 44%. And here to remind us, to understand what we are talking about, that the primary sector and the food and beverage industry are one of the largest employers in the country as a whole. In particular, the agro-industrial, food and drink industry is the largest employer in processing. Also primary production and the food industry, manufacturing and the food industry are usually where primary production exists. So they contribute to regional cohesion. That is why the agri-food sector is very important and it was therefore a great and unjustified omission not to call and exclude the Agricultural Chamber from the debate at the hearing. I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. But there is the letter which puts the concerns of the Chamber of Agriculture, which, unfortunately, has not been taken into account. And I'm explaining. Controversy is the exclusion from investment modernisation investments relating to the production line or part of the production process. Because in the draft law, which will become law in a short time, we are discussing modernisation investments which are only strengthened when they are considered to be integrated according to the definition. But also for collective schemes, cooperatives and others, the conditions of their support are not different from all other investments. So when we want to support the collective patterns, at least as you move - unless that is the case, and tell us - there have been no particular incentives for them. Now, as long as we still have the time, we'll have to clear up a point. This point says that there are increased aid rates for the reopening of industrial units. We need to make it clear whether the increased incentives are given to new schemes, which may have taken over old units, which, after the sale of the Agricultural Bank, had gone to the clearer, for example, many cooperatives. As far as the natural disasters are concerned, this summer we had too many, extensive natural disasters that hit my homeland, Mani. Natural disasters affect the economy as a whole. Therefore, increased incentives should be given to these areas at the county level. It is also not in the interests of efficiency and speed - because we will discuss the same after three or four years, what ran, how it ran - the large number of ministerial decisions and the fact that many are defined in ministerial decisions, instead of being clear in the law, beyond that there is a question of good legislation. Finally, the omission in Article 17(5) of the draft law should also be corrected for the preparation by geotechnics of the certification report. That's what I think needs to be done while we have time. To conclude, Mr President - and thank you for your tolerance - I would like to remind you of two-three things. In 2018, we had a history of exporting to the agri-food industry. Did that happen? Let me also remind you that the international agreements made during the SYRIZA ruling period fully protected -ful protection - PDO and PGI products. And to remind you, in contrast to the agreements made before 2014, that is what happened with CETA in Canada. Fortunately, it seems that the agreement will not be implemented. Finally, we opened the way to exports of agricultural products to markets that were target markets for many years, such as China, India and elsewhere, and to products such as apples, kidneys, Kozanis and olive oil. All this was done through a strategy for the agri-food sector. They didn't happen to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis. And since the reason for the Kozanis crocodile, a Kozani, Mr. Efstathos Constantinidis from New Democracy, will come to Step and prepare Mr. Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement. Mr. Ahmet and I will close the fifth cycle. I would remind you that today we will run out of the seventh cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, without anyone really knowing the material of the case-file created for the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, you have served the SYRIZA officials at an unprecedented and incomprehensible event at the expense of the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, a man, a colleague who, following the activation of your predictions of the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, was persecuted, persecuted, dispersed, dispersed, and after a long-term judicial investigation of the case, was assigned, free of any charge, to the political and social life of the place. In fact, as far as I know, without even being asked to provide explanations, which I think in fact they are aware of the criminal proceedings that they understand what this means in relation to the inadequacy and intensibility of evidence and the category. It's not just that you didn't have the bravery to recognize him innocence, saying attributes that "we're not gonna do you a favor", but you showed that you had placed your last hopes in a different ending from the one that finally came. It is strange, however, that you have shown yourself to ask for the archiving act, which you did not do with the other faces you accused of, showing that, in the end, the person who was interested in you getting involved in this case was probably Mr. Georgiadis or that this was the last refuge for the rescue of your political attitude at the time. And finally, because the previous Member has referred to the phony about the existence or non-violence of NOVARTIS, Mr President, to say so to understand it too, if there is a theft here too, and I with some other colleagues, for reasons of political empathy, are trying to involve you and we wrongly accuse you, it does not mean that if you are accusing yourself of being acquitted and turned against us then theft has not been committed. So the persons involved in this case, and today they are controlled for construction, are not controlled because there was or was not a NOVARTIS scandal. They are controlled, because they have sought to involve innocent human beings, their fellow citizens, political persons for reasons of political feasibility. Ladies and gentlemen, let's join the bill. The development is a permanent demand for every parliamentary procedure and for every political debate. The development, of course, with the technical dimension of the term, of the growth of the Gross National Product, but also of the essential and social nature, which increases the income of citizens, which improves the conditions for employment, and which, by expanding public resources, improves the services of the State to the citizen, allows the state to unfold a strong social protection net for our most vulnerable people. How can such growth be achieved? Of course, she doesn't come on her own. A plan and action is needed, a national plan to take account of international trends and the wider environment in which it will be implemented and interact with it, but also with the specific features of the country in which it is implemented, taking into account its weaknesses and advantages, the skills and capabilities of its human resources, based on genuinely realistic data, but at the same time it will have a vision and a vision. Such a plan, of course, must also have the appropriate tools, an administration that is staffed and equipped with modern means, a banking system that can perform its dominant role, which is liquidity-based and, of course, support for investment projects - because there you have manifested your opposition in every attempt to restructure the banking system - a private sector that will not be persecuted, framed and exterminated taxly, as it has been in your governance, which will be able to develop in a competitive environment with a sense of corporate responsibility and cooperate where possible and necessary with the public sector. This is for you, the Left, you have allergies in all private and in every sense of partnership with the public sector. And, of course, to have a government that believes in entrepreneurship and is determined to implement policies that will achieve a stable, sustainable and sustainable growth. Because we need this development and we need to work for it, ladies and gentlemen. We know little or no more of the structural characteristics of the Greek economy, the negative ratios between services and marketable goods, the deficit of imports and exports, the over-inflation of very small entities, activities, the small and non-intangible primary sector, the absence of strong and competitive processing and, of course, the inexistent almost applied research and innovation, ultimately low productivity and competitiveness. Do we, in the end, want to change this productive model or not, maintain it? We have a tendency, moreover, to confuse, confuse concepts, tools and objectives. Another thing is investment incentives, what a development law talks about, and also liquidity and support measures. Everything is necessary, but not everything is addressed to the same purpose. After all, every time has its own prerogatives. The previous development law was directed to other needs and others today. So let's get out of here. Should we strengthen extroversion and digital upgrades? Do we want the freshness and innovation of new entrepreneurship? Do we want the competitiveness and durability of medium and larger schemes, the strengthening of research and technology-related enterprises, the sustainability of green growth, the 'green' economy? We want the added value of processing and verticalization. We want an upgraded tourist product that will, if necessary, also be aimed at a higher vandal. Is this not the role of a development law, planning, directing, strengthening sectors and activities that have prospects and will create jobs? So this also does the sectorally and targeted legal draft, focuses on small businesses and regional development, corrects management weaknesses, significantly speeds up procedures, connects incentives to efficiency. And yes, it is part of the overall government plan, because it has even memorized us, and that is why the opposition says that it is buttoning, in line with the development plan of the Pissaridis Committee, the National Recovery Plan, in the strategy for industry. But that's what it has to do, to be functional and effective. And it is entirely compatible with the other legislations and measures adopted by the present Government for strategic investment, for a fair transition, of course, to reorganise the banks, to speed up the administration of justice, to simplify the start-up of businesses, to reduce tax and insurance burdens, to digital upgrading. All the things that we in extremely difficult circumstances have legislated and the opposition, rather than defeat, voted against. However, a judge of this development law, Minister, will also be the evaluation procedure under Article 128, this responsibility which the Minister responsible has to carry out every year in the first quarter and assess the performance of the development law. Because the plans, good approvals, good aids, are important, but it means what investments are being made in wool, which will bring jobs, which will give rise to new money.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u298	Close, Mr. Constantinidis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u299	I conclude by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill accepted the demands of Western Macedonia, one of which was the subject of agricultural individual enterprises to development law and, in particular, to agri-foodstuffs. Thus, a fair transition is a separate aid scheme, the Kozani Regional Unit is ‘heading up’ to aid, while special clauses have been laid down, rapid comparative procedures are anticipated and unlike other regions, all companies with financial subsidies are being strengthened. It complements, therefore, the institutional framework for attracting investment projects to our place and now, Minister, we must run faster than the deterioration, the deterioration that the previous government inherited us in Western Macedonia, the Kozani Regional Unit with the very low extroversion and the prolonged, continuous recession and underdevelopment that it caused in our region. I am sure that the net of the arrangements that we have made over the entire period, but also the diligence that we will show in the implementation stage will bring the positive results that the region needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u300	Be well. Mr. Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement is called in Stepma and Mr. Kumoucaskos from New Democracy is being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 10-year economic crisis that the country has experienced and the health crisis of the last two years to date has revealed that a direct change in the country's production model is needed. And obviously every development law is a useful tool in this direction, but a tool which must be integrated into a more general and integrated development plan for the country, in order to escape the paths of the past that ensue us and threaten the well-being of all of us. Thus, the new development law that comes to replace, without a substantial assessment of the previous development law, is essentially a tool for an alleged development policy. What are the areas finally to develop a new specific orientation of the Greek economy in order to change the productive example? That's the question. Unfortunately, however, these are not. At the same time, this development law reveals the ideological obsessions of the New Democracy. How else can we explain the fact that medium-sized enterprises only receive tax exemptions - positive this - but they are excluded from grants. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the Intergroup on Thrace, which was tabled before the majority holidays, includes specific provisions to make Thrace an attractive place of investment, as was the case in the 1980s and 1990s. At this point I would like to say that Thrace was devastated throughout Greece and Europe that it was the "El Dorado" for fraudsters and abusers of public money. As a Thrace, I denounce these designations that were the vehicle for the development depreciation of Thrace and the deindustrialisation of the past twenty years, turning our industrial areas into ghosts and workers into unemployed and migrants. With their own structural problems and incomplete policies, the rulings, all the parties, identified Thrace as the payment of aid to "airplanes" and "aircraft" while local businessmen often paid their own life for their desire to invest in Thrace and breathe entrepreneurship. For all these reasons today, from this point of view, on the basis of the discussion on development law, I am not asking for anything less than the conclusion of the intergroup committee and in particular: First: Assessment and updating of the regional aid map. Secondly, the establishment of tax exemptions and other incentives and aid where possible. Thirdly, the rewarding of businesses through tax subsidies for enterprises that implement green politics and a cyclical economy, i.e. adopt modern organisational structures. Fourthly: Immediate amendment of the development law with capital support for tax-free stocks. Fifthly, an assessment of the possibility of subsidising the transport of energy or even payroll costs in Thrace. Sixth: Modernisation of control tools, border and customs flows, intensification of controls and cooperation with local professionals to better identify illegal trade and smuggling networks. Seventh: Systemisation and intensification of dialogue between participants in the regional innovation system to improve the relevance of supply and demand of knowledge. Eighth: Support and dissemination of innovation systems in start-up enterprises. Ninth: Tax incentives for companies producing innovation through RD programmes in the region. Tenth: Specific incentive framework for youth and newly-born entrepreneurship. Eleventh: Expansion of the VAT suspension scheme and at the same time a special VAT exemption scheme or import fees and specific raw materials. Twelfth: Establishment of a single regional support mechanism, transfer of technology and know-how for these regions. All of this is included in the conclusion with President Dora Bakoyannis in the intergroup committee. At the same time, I present myself and some of the proposals of the Rhodope Chamber of Commerce and Crafts concerning this development law and I invite you to fully include them in your programming. Firstly, the beneficiaries should include individual companies, which can be subject to development law without having to set up a single-person company.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u302	We've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u303	You put it, yeah. Secondly: Eligibility of agricultural individual enterprises to be subject to development law and clear clarification. In particular, the supply of agricultural tractors and ancillary to constitute an integrated investment project for these schemes. You'll tell me it's a matter of the Ministry of Rural Development. But you can do that. Thirdly, medium-sized enterprises should not be excluded from the grant incentive, since they are a key pillar of local economies. Fourthly, consider the expansion of eligible investment projects, including activities that do not prohibit European legislation. Fifthly, respect for the long-term obligations of the six years is very high. We are proposing to be reduced to three years, as is the case with the ESRB's investment programmes. In other words, we are proposing that what is in force in the NRP should apply. Six, for investment projects over 700,000 euros, a certification report is required. We propose that this certification report relates to budget projects over EUR 2 million. In other words, no plan is required for the EUR 700,000. I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the six proposals from the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts. In this development law there is no strengthening of the role of the regions. A characteristic example is the concentration of investment projects in the regions of Western Macedonia, Central Macedonia and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace in the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace. A development law, however, without the Thrace star and the growth engine is not meant. I therefore invite you to return to Thrace all the things that have been unjustly deprived of over the past twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I would ask you very much, because twenty-two speakers have left, not to go too far, because some of your colleagues will speak and no one will see them, and nobody will hear them. Besides, we don't have a deputy president after Mr. Bourrah and we're staying with ten players! Giorgos Koumoutsaskos from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Aylonite is prepared by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. First, some thoughts about the political atmosphere of days. Ladies and gentlemen, the Imian crisis and its mismanagement have evolved in 1996. Three lads lost their lives. We all say that we honor that sacrifice for our country. But have we honoured them these days? Do you think they would be happy with what has evolved here, in the leading institution of democracy, with the political life of the place being colored and twisted around Polakis and Furthians? If they saw us, I'm sure they would turn the gaze away deeply bitter. And that doesn't honor anyone. Ladies and gentlemen, for twelve consecutive years Greek citizens have faced enormous difficulties caused by the economic crisis and the current pandemic crisis. Their lives have been overthrown. They have therefore accumulated to the Greek people and have been reluctant and pressure and tension. It is our duty and obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to give perspective, to absorb the vibrations created in society, to extinguish and not to undermine tensions. That is our democratic duty and we are judged by the citizens who demand from us serious, responsible and responsible. Fantasticism harms democracy, because it makes the citizen incapable of thinking. Acidity is easily created, at any time, but in order to restore the climate of calm, it takes months. The tone must be measured and low from both parties and the press. This is what Constantine Karamanlis said, and that is what our resignation, New Democracy, believes. And I want, having mentioned the New Democracy, to speak, to speak and to address the opposition party, not only of the Greatest Opposition but also of Ellas, the KINAL. I heard your representative, Ms. Likolis, beating with SYRIZA, because he says he stole your slogan "The people don't forget what it means right". I mean, it's yours. And I wonder: in this sense, do you claim to be expressors of the middle space? Don't you understand that you've already been defeated before you've even given the battle? These obsolete slogans, which do not correspond to today's realities, are the ideological compass with which you will go? Before entering the essence of such an important draft law on development, the economy and society, I want to come back to a serious issue of moral and political order. Since yesterday the discussion of the development bill, in the presence of the relevant Minister, Mr Adonis Georgiades, started, you have had, gentlemen, Officer Opposition - and you still have - a second chance to correct a mistake. You have had a second chance to apologize to a man, to a colleague at the bottom of the scripture, who you accused, targeted and smuggled for almost five years unfairly, as decided by Greek justice. The first opportunity to do this you missed in the debate last night on the failed motion of censure, but you are now losing it, as it turns out. I am sorry to say that it proves once again that you are politically incapable of admitting errors and morally weak to apologize. Evaluate and be judged by the citizens for this serious deficit of yours. And one more thing to the colleagues of Officerial Responsibility. You've been trying to turn us politically, with a motion of censure, with intense interventions, with a challenge, in fact, for the snow, for everything. You're trying to corner us in an objectively difficult time. And here comes Mr. Paulakis and he overturns, neutralizes, bombs every strategy, if you had any...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u306	You won't have time for this very important bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u307	I know, Mr. President. They have spoken for ten minutes, let me go. It was a serious political debate, and I would like to take this opportunity to say something about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u308	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u309	So Mr. Paulakis comes in and overthrows, literally bombs, neutralizes any such strategy if you had it. And you tolerated him as well as your Chief. I wonder: Have you had a political suicidal idea? Don't you understand that you're downloading a strategy and a coroner comes in and blows it into the air and you're still not putting it in, not isolating it, not taking a position? If you carry on like this, you would not be a celebrity, but you are in danger of having political ventilation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u310	Our problem!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u311	That's why the New Democracy is passing you over and over and over again. So we are talking today about the development bill. Our aim is to improve the economic climate and increase the well-being of Greek citizens, despite the very unfavourable conditions. We must support all those who went through the waves of two parallel crises, the economic crisis in the years 2009 to 2019 and immediately after the pandemic. Are there any grounds for optimising today? Yes, there are: The increase in investment and exports, the declining of unemployment, the increased deposits of households and businesses, the prospects for strong growth of the Greek economy, the constant upgrades from the rating houses in combination with the country's low interest rates of borrowing, while some reasons to believe that we will do so, in addition, are the entire investment and the economic climate right now in the country, which it is investing. Because you can't deny that. There is great interest in large companies and investors. And that's not investment in investment, it's investment in jobs. Minister, your development law reflects the spirit of the country's strategic development plans, the development plan for the Greek economy - Pissaridis Committee report - the National Recovery and Resilience Plan "Greece 2.0" and the Industry 4.0 industry strategy. And because I do not want to extend more time, I want to refer to two or three points. The bill we will vote achieves three things: It is a new institutional tool for the development of the Greek economy, it meets the modern requirements of the economic life of the country and entrepreneurship and, above all, it expresses our ideological stigma for an open society and a protected society. In this context, our main priority is to increase investment and create new jobs. The attraction of investment - and I would like to stress this - is not an attraction to investment by passive, random. It is attracting investment with strategic, prospects and future. This is the first step and its implementation is the second and essential. The government's main objective is to make such investments, not passive but strategic, that will leave the country value added and will help its development dynamically. That is why the draft law is well thought out and targeted. It provides for strong incentives for private investment and specific business activities, but not uncontrollable. That is why an effective assessment and control of the implementation of investment projects will be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u312	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u313	I'm just finishing up with this. The government has to control it. I would stress, however, that this control must not become a brake and an obstacle. We therefore remove bureaucratic obstacles and shorten the time to respond to the demands made by the public services. The speed, of course, is not enough. We should also see the spread across the country. That is why all the regions of the country will win. It's not in specific areas, but there's a total perception of things. The Qualified Opposition will vote against. No surprise in that. And how was there such a surprise when she even voted against the country's defence agreements at a crucial time for her security and foreign policy. For us, growth is the goal of stability, for us it is the goal that no Greeks remain behind. We don't want Greeks staying behind in development. We want them all together and we'll make it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u314	Mr Sarakiotis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u315	Thank you, Mr President. The previous colleague at the start of his post said that he would be proud of our three compatriots who were sacrificed in Imia from Parliament's image. I would like to ask whether he is the same proud that the performance of the honor from the Ministry of Defence is done with a tweet or a Facebook post.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u316	The substance counts.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u317	Why should we not forget, Mr President, that in SYRIZA the Minister for Defence was there and the charges since the civilisation at the time were that we were provoking Turkey. We were in the memorials, we didn't have Rafah, we didn't have Bellara, but we were there because we had a patriotic feeling.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u318	Thank you very much. Mr Alexandros Aylonitis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr Baraliakos is prepared from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u319	And we, Mr President, in Corfu, honour every year the three fallen in Imia, because one of them, Hector Gialos, was from the next village to mine. Mr Kumucasakos, I am directly addressing the following question: did we discover the Furthite? Did we feed 'NOVARTIS'? Are we the ones who shut down the microphones on Paul?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u320	You made him a center of political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u321	Please tell me. Didn't the Vice President, Mr. Athanasios, turn off his microphones? You of the seven minutes that you had, you spoke the six - I counted - on issues other than development. They won't take away your word. The President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulas, gave Mr Polakis the right to speak and take all his time on the issue of 'NOVARTIS'. He considered that he shouldn't have interrupted, which means he accepted the wrong scout or not, we'll see what had to happen to Mr. Athanasios. Is it like that or am I wrong? I was sitting there watching a democratic lesson from the President of Parliament. He told us about the majority, he told us about the beginning of the declaration, he told us about the Rules of Procedure of the House, about the audit bodies. I know that the President of the Parliament is the only body to decide not on the principle of majority voting, but on the law, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and the Constitution. What was the majority doing, the beginning of the pleaded? And I ask: after giving the floor to Mr Polakis, all year round, the cause, the relationship between cause and cause and effect, who led Mr Polakis to create the problem - if there is such a problem - the alleged problem that was left here and supposedly prevented the continuation of a process? The President-in-Office at the time of the sitting. Is that so? So why does the President-in-Office send only Paulakis to the Ethics Committee and does he not send the Vice-President of the House who has hit the core of the House's Rules of Procedure? Why doesn't he? Why are we wrong? Because outside the media boasts and towels try to identify the problem, not where it is out there, which is hunger and poverty. Each Greek family will have a dead man in a few days. Instead of the Greek Parliament showing the problem, it shows Polakis, it shows "NOVARTIS". So is this the democracy we believe in? I'm addressing you, Mr. Kumucaco. Let me tell you something else, 'cause I got my law. The Presidents of the Parliament, Mr Tasulas and Mr Athanasios, when next door was the Prime Minister of Greece, and said so against journalists - to remember words - why did they not protect the presumption of innocence? The two Presidents. Why? Because he was a prime minister? Because they weren't blaming him. Aren't they MPs too? Why didn't he? When Members here have an interrogational or interrogational statement, which we all know should not be read, made public - it is the beginning of the secrecy of the pre-interrogation and interrogation - the President-in-Office of the Council because he does not stop the Member from saying to him: sir, you use a material that has been stolen, he has been subjected to a pre-review job in which the principle of secrecy applies. That's all? When sues were filed against judges responsible for the case of NOVARTIS, has the investigation not been filed? You speak of independent justice and you sue the people who control you! Where is independent justice. Tell me where he is?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u322	Doesn't anyone have the right to appeal?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u323	He has a right, but don't say you don't interfere in justice. The development law. The so-called development law is developmental? Every time Mr Georgiadis invoked the development of a bill, he blows, in my view, a cold north for medium-sized and small entrepreneurs. Is it what the world of the market and work expected? Is that the bill waiting? What does the afflicting business world say? For you, Mr Georgiadis, - but I see you're missing - how is growth really understood through this bill? I do not have any special knowledge, but with the mere experience of a person who lives, as do you, of course, in society. I believe that Mr Georgiadis does not make us understandable through the development bill and how he means it. Try more for those who win each year and more market segment by industry or introduce more favourable aid arrangements in an increasingly numerical size of companies that strive to make every day, by paying loans, rents, wages, electricity bills, suppliers, etc.Huh? Of course not. I don't want to look like I'm a grumpy congressman. I want to refer to what the market says, which people say. Professional associations, chambers and relevant bodies tell you one thing on behalf of their members: How they are invisible of your bill, how bureaucracy rather than shrinking, gigantic, how you find ways to reduce the possibility of raising aid from small and medium-sized enterprises. Even the banks - I have read the relevant announcement of people working in the banks - who are asked by you to carry out viability checks, how can they surely prescribe the course of a business in the next five to ten years? It's called - and I repeat - the bank executives. Development for the place, Minister, is the diffusion of financial possibilities where there is really a need. This improves the index of our economy. This will improve both the social indicators of our country and social policy. A little more time, Mr President, and I shall be done. In particular, for tourism, which I am dealing with both at party level and at parliamentary level, and for any form of aid - grant, subsidy or exemption - small tourist accommodation and small hotel units in the region, in the islands and mountainous areas are completely out of place. Unfortunately, you are looking to exterminate every small-scale tourist-owner and not help him orthopaedic. Tourist offices - remember what I say to you - tourist bus companies, accommodation, car rental companies, shops, individual businesses etc. -Not in the number, I'm counting on 80% of what growth is, where does growth seem through your bill? I come from Corfu, and what I'm telling you is recorded in their announcements, in their press releases, all those who I mentioned earlier, the trade association, the bus owners, the federations of tourist accommodation and other operators. Is that all I see? If I see them, I obviously live in another world, in another universe. I have publicly called on Mr Kikilia - and I shall end, Mr President - to intervene in favour of tourism operations in your bill. I invited him in writing. I said it, I heard it. Where are the supplies you would give them to cope with competition, the energy crisis - the energy crisis will kill you - remember it - to what extent and to what extent -...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u324	And you're not happy?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u325	...in the accuracy of their operating expenses, in the loss of lost tourist seasons, in the small and large invitations to every sector of the tourist industry. I call your bill - I shall say this - an abortion for the interests of a small business, and as such I am voting against it. Thank you very much and thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u326	Can I have the floor? He asked me a personal question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u327	No, that's not personal, Mr. Kumucaco. Everyone asks questions. It's a rhetoric. There's no staff. You can speak in private. You guys are friends. The President of the New Republic, Mr Baraliacos, has the floor now. I wanted to ask you, although I will sit as long as necessary - there is no question - if possible, to keep about time. They're still over 20 people. If you put an average - never seven minutes - at least eight, you understand the last ones. Hot request: Customize the time to seven to eight at most. Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President. Anyone who attends the last meetings will probably understand that, in fact, gentlemen of SYRIZA, we are two different worlds. You want to talk about Polakis, we want to talk about development laws, development and business.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u329	You're talking about Paul.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u330	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in a Greece that is changing and leaning towards a good future, with our country increasing its authority internationally, but also increasing its diplomatic and military position at international and European level, in a Greece that is a potential energy hub in the Balkans, but a key interlocutor for developments in the Southeast Mediterranean, the Greek Imperial Development Act comes to strengthen this dynamic development. Our aim is to step up the exploitation of domestic power factors which our country has, with a realistic plan that takes account of the national economy's data and prospects. The development law as a new institutional instrument for the development of the Greek economy will replace the current 4399/2016 by direct application, as one cannot omit the fact that the development law passed by SYRIZA in 2016 started implementing two whole years later during 2018. In addition to the two-year delay in its implementation, the current development law enabled low-priced enterprises to play a disproportionate role in the economy, focusing on their economic activity in traditional sectors lacking innovation and putting productivity growth at a low level. The central political objective of the bill, expressed in the government's ideological position, is to increase investment as an institutional tool for growth in the creation of new wealth and new jobs, a tool for the majority of the sectors of the economy by applying a wide range of business activities, while addressing a number of professional sectors. In particular, thirteen thematic schemes are established, consisting of the digital and technological transformation of enterprises, their green transition and environmental upgrading, as well as their new business. In addition, they are included in this fair development transition, research and applied innovation, agri-foodstuffs, processing and logistics regime and that of business outwards. Finally, the scheme of strengthening tourism investment, alternative forms of tourism, large investment and entrepreneurship is being introduced. We therefore have thematic regimes that specialise in the policy that the government can and wants to pursue, which was missing until now. Through the thirteen regimes of the new law we seek to make it attractive by granting high rates of State aid for private investment and by providing incentives to specific activities and effective by removing bureaucratic obstacles, by facilitating the approval procedures and abbreviation of the time of responding to the requests, as well as by making use of the new information system developed exclusively for the support of development law. Ladies and gentlemen, the outgoing Law was a law that did not have much to do, because it was at the expense of bureaucracy. We are now speeding up the procedures, since we have reduced the time for the submission which, until now, required six hundred and a half to be sixty. The procedures of the application for registration, the submission of the supporting documents required, the receipt and the completeness check shall be simplified as a minimum. The State trusts the consultant, trusts the investor with the sole requirement to sign a member of the Chamber of Finance, who will advise the person concerned and assume the completeness of the investment proposal. I personally know my fellow citizens from Pieria who have tabled millions of investment projects for one and a half years, Minister, I have not been able to check whether they had been subject to them. It is now through the conditions of a clear system that each investor has the ability to monitor the development of his project through the information system of development laws. Ladies and gentlemen, the new developmentist doesn't exclude anyone. It's the vision of the leadership of the Ministry of Development. And at this point I would like to congratulate Minister Adoni Georgiadis, the Deputy Minister of State, George Papathanassis, and their partners on the excellent work they have done, but it is also the vision of our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who, as a national strategy, are implementing a mix of development policy involving reductions in taxes and insurance contributions and, at the same time, create a pro-investment environment by increasing GDP and creating new jobs, unlike you, SYRIZA colleagues, who have increased taxes and expelled investments. Today, having nothing else to suggest, strive to fireworks proposals, proposals without any costing, proposals like the ones of the Thessaloniki program that you folded the memorials, abolished HISPHIA and increased the basic salary. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are no longer convinced today. It would be appropriate if you would like to be serious and reliable interlocutors, from now on, any proposal you table for tax reliefs or benefits to be accompanied by a priced proposal for the equivalent that will complement the amount that our budgetary revenue requires. I'll be in seconds, Mr. President. Only then will we be able to have a realistic debate on economics and not play the game of impressions and the auction. In conclusion, I would like to call on the SYRIZA officials to request a public apologies for the 'NOVARTIS' construction that you have set up. You have for a long time been two former Prime Ministers and four members of our party. Mr. Samaras, Mr. Pikramenos, Mr. Avramopoulos, Mr. Salmas, Mr. Lykourenzos, Mr. Georgiadis are innocent and you do not have the basic dignity to finally apologise for the bog in which you dragged them. You come here all the time and you tell us about the rule of law, but your moral advantage has long been abandoned. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to vote in favour of the new development law that will stimulate the country's productive economy, strengthen employment and contribute to the transition of our country to the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u331	And we thank Mr. Baraliaco. The reason for the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Hara Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, thank you. What would really fit the government majority either at the level of MPs or at the Council of Ministers is the word 'fragility is the mask of fear'. And I'll explain clearly what I mean. In fact, gentlemen of the conflict, you're afraid. And you are afraid at the same time of creating a climate of fear, terrorism, I would say, in the simple world, to the people. Indeed, it is no accident what we have lived in the last few days, yesterday and today, with the antidemocratic practices and regularities of the government majority with the issues, which have seen the whole of the Greek, to remove the speech from a democratically elected MEP, even violating constitutional rights. I do not want to say, of course, about the Rules of Procedure of the House. Of course you dare, honourable Members, who are supporting the coexistence, to speak of declining SYRIZA's worthy position. Demolition, as Mr Kumucascus said, is a worthwhile deficit. The previous Member of the New Democracy also spoke about matters of values. So that is what I think is unacceptable. I don't want to call it any different. And it comes back to those who said it. So fear, gentlemen, for your world is getting news slowly. And he gets you news because the world is suffering. January and our country for once is a pan-European first in the price of wholesale energy. Because one out of three young people doesn't get a job. He's unemployed. Because the pandemic is sadly beating red. For over a week, our fellow citizens have been lost on average. Because you have already failed to deal with a previous bad weather, a natural phenomenon, with all that we have been discussing and on the three-day side of the motion of censure. Because, as Alexis Tsipras said, the night came to Maximus. I'm talking about corruption. Within this three-day period your political nakedness has been seen by methods that we have seen in the temple of democracy in the last few days. We are all talking about it, but few of us really honor it. Of course, I would like to ask whether you are and are pleased with the international rupture of the country on various means of communication in Europe with what happened last week with Elpida in the city of Athens, the image of a European capital. You are now talking about development and you are bringing in a new development law that is our issue today. For attraction of investors, investments, etc. I ask: what development do you want and what kind of investors do you want? Because a serious investor really needs to know that there is a stability, a seriousness, a stable tax regime. There are laws, there are rules. To know where he's going to invest. There's a log, there's forest maps. There is urban planning. What kind of evidence do I have mentioned actually apply and are there in our country? Do you want investors who come only to make money? Create some jobs as well. You have prepared the work without rights by your labour laws, without hours, without contracts and all of this. The Hatzidakis Law. At the same time, of course, hypocritically - and I mean it - you are talking about the green transition to green recovery and development. At the same time as moving towards a defoliation plan in our country of western Macedonia and Megalopolis. It is fast to show our Prime Minister his "green" face. But you're not talking about coaling, gentlemen of the government. Natural gas is a fossil fuel. And most importantly, deprivation, as you say, without society together, without planning, without real justice. At the same time - this is dangerous - the Prime Minister has placed you with those countries of the European Union who believe that nuclear energy and gas must enter the European Union's classification. And it is not the whole European Union. Some countries. But we're talking about another model. For another holistic project that will respond to the ‘for what development’. Of course, with the broadening of social inequalities and the climate crisis together with the question of what characteristics this development will have. Because growth is not just the figures and the growth of GDP. Our country's GDP has fallen in the years of the pandemic and we must not forget it. We are talking about development which will take into account the seventeen objectives of sustainable development of the UN, the European Union's agreement, the 'new green deal', the 'fit for 55' for 2050. Of course sustainability, receptiveness, prosperity. Sustainability: meet the needs without mortgageing the next generations. Prosperity, housing, health and the environment. Resistance to crises in the future economic, social, environmental. In this context, we consider the draft law in question. And we must not forget, nor those who hear us, that on SYRIZA with the 2006 law unlocked investment plans for decades that had remained in drawers, investment was facilitated, innovative initiatives with tax exemptions, tax incentives. There has been an increase in jobs. Just a minute, Mr President. At the same time, of course, we also need products that do not cause environmental damage, that is, they will have a limited environmental footprint. With this bill that you did not explain - whatever Mr Papathanassis said before - why the law is changing, the assessment of the law of 2016, there is essentially a concentration of powers on the Ministry, the concentration of power on the Minister, support for business in the centre and not the regions - very serious - support for large businesses and difficulties in the integration of small ones. You are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, when at the moment about eight hundred and fifty thousand small and medium-sized enterprises, over thirty thousand have no access to bank lending. And that's not SYRIZA's clue. It's called their organs, it's GSEE, etc. Of course, when there are certain branch services, such as rehabilitation centers, nursing houses, laundry engineers, ironing machines, etc. We believe that the implementation of this bill, the law you are bringing today, will have difficulties in implementing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u334	In conclusion, we are talking about a holistic development strategy that gives vision through the promotion of sustainable development, aimed at the country's reconstruction, the reversal of deindustrialisation, the restoration of productivity growth and competitiveness, and a fair growth for all and for the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u335	Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor now. At this point, I would like to remind you of the times that, with a clipboard calculation, we will be spending 2.00 ́. The Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, is here to defend an amendment. Here, Mr. Papadimitriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Mr President. There are six plus one reasons why I will be voting in favour of the development bill. I have to tell you that every thing matters. When I started working in Greece, one of the first things I dealt with was the then development bill, in 1982. There have been many similar bills. This one's good. The first reason is the introduction of thirteen sectoral schemes for various specialised sectors of the economy. Here I must remind you that as far as research and development is concerned, the expenditure we have this year brought us to the third position compared with GDP, which is extremely important. We therefore achieve the dispersion of investments in more sectors of the economy. The second reason is that for every 1 euro public money, 2 more euros are mobilised in private capital. And I must tell you that this is important, because half of the euro that we will give from public money will be tax exemption. Of course, the rest will be the resources of the Public Investment Programme. The third reason is the tax incentives and alleviations that are coming to strengthen government tax reduction policy, in which we remain stable despite difficulties. The fourth reason is that the merged small and medium-sized enterprises will receive a 30% tax rebate for three years. In combination with what the Recovery Fund provides for, this is extremely important. We need to convince entrepreneurs to cooperate, to create a critical size. The fifth reason concerns incentives for a new business. These are resources secured as a separate scheme. The financing of business risk, which is due to exist for the first time, is extremely important and will convince many entrepreneurs, who are still reluctant to take the opportunity. And the opportunity is 2022, it's 2023, it's 2024. And I'll explain after my thoughts. But hold on to 2024, because here we will be talking about it a little bit in the same way. We want to encourage and I believe that the Ministry's leadership is looking at the new generation and wants to convince her to take business initiatives. We want, at last, young people to take business initiatives and not wait for them to be appointed to the public. The sixth reason is the speed of licensing procedures, which can be done without two factors, which I think are the ones that prevented you from developing speed, as you said, in the law that you had passed. One is the political gear, and the second, we all know it, is the bureaucratic claws. Therefore, political mediation is the one that has to go and stay imprinted only on the law and its intentions. The last reason is that there is, of course, a dispersion of investment in more parts of the country, that is, there is a developed regional factor. Let us now see where it works, in what environment development law will work. It works in an environment which is also developmental, that is to say it is coming to take it slowly. Of course, we have had the misfortune of the pandemic, but we are covering it. Turns out, you saw the forecasts made by IOBE just recently, in '21 we may reach 9% - 9.5%, which means the recovery will have closed its cycle. And this is extremely important because it will allow us to go to 2022 to 4.5%, which is not only an excellent performance, but it covers the budgetary cost of debt and is mainly creating the climate that is needed to get ahead. Another positive climate factor is the continuing decline in unemployment. On the basis of the last measurement of EUROSTAT - and we also expect ELSTAT in the next few days - unemployment in December reached 12.7%, which is the lowest point since 2010 when the country entered the first phase of the major fiscal and financial crisis. Of course, it is also the fact that the people employed in the economy have exceeded the four million, which in itself is extremely important and is a huge success of the 'CONTRIAL' programme. Inflation is a problem, but it is different from that of accuracy or from the upheavals brought to trade circuits, as is, of course, different from the problem with the geopolitical crisis in energy. If you look at how inflation will evolve on average - on the basis of the conditions we have today, because it just came out that a Russian soldier might have been killed. This reminds me of how soldiers are dressed, what costumes they wear and the dangers that exist to get into something that we cannot count on; you will see that since this crisis begins to be limited to a realistic level in the spring, the declining of current inflation prices will bring in levels that will not exceed 2%. That is why, when the wage assessment comes, which will be done mainly in the economy and because of competitiveness, but of course with the motto of minimum wages, the final result that will be left to people, families and employees will be important. This is illustrated by the fact that in industry we have a continuous rise - 2021 has risen by 23% - as in exports, where we have 20% rise in 2021, a record of 20 years. The available income therefore rises and we are about 10% above the third quarter of 2019. All of this is reflected in the economic climate indicator, which is constantly very good and improveable. In this environment, development law will work and will help further. I remind you of what we must not forget. It had never happened so massively to enter investment interest. That's real money, real jobs. We are talking about 'MICROSOT', about 'PFIZER', about 'CISCO', about 'DELOITTE', about 'LAMDA HELLIX', about 'DIGITAL REALTY', about 'TEAM BUYER', about 'VIVA' with 'J.P.MORGAN' now, about 'NEXT e.Go', about 'ACCUSONUS' with 'META' - going through these days - 'POLFISH' and 'PRODIGE', which will also be in the next few days. All of these are signs like the Greek, you said, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that it will never happen, that the bulldozers will never get in. Now, however, growth really comes in the form of a bulldozer. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u337	We would also like to thank Mr Papadimitriou for the very accurate implementation of time, and we would also like to thank the other colleagues for their support. The speaker of the Movement of Change, George Francis, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor. And you there in Kilkis, you call it fast and stutter.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, however, before I begin my speech, to say something, using my specialty as a doctor. I see that in the last few days the two parties, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, have been experiencing a very high fever of interest in the Change Movement for PASOK. And if that interest were sincere, we would be happy, but unfortunately not. And you know, in medicine when we have a very high fever, there's an infection and even acute infection. And in this particular case we have an acutely toxic corrosion infection, which is completely useless to social and citizens, who are right to think about trying at all costs to be away from this corrosion. That's what our party does. It is a bit paradoxical that we are discussing a draft development bill immediately after the tragedies that happened in the past few days because of a foretold bad weather. They are facts that have revealed the deep structural problems of the state mechanism that appeared to be unprepared strategically and operationally, but also the tragic shortcomings of a government which, firstly, fails to offer security to the citizens, secondly, fails to make society resilient not only to natural disasters but also to threatening situations such as pandemic, climate change, energy crisis, accuracy and, thirdly, it concentrates powers but also decentralises responsibility. I wonder what development law and what development we are talking about in such a state, which and how long foreign investors will attract when with fires we are burning, with rains we are drowning and with snow, when our economy remains vulnerable and any interventions and aids of the government are not targeted for productive investment, towards a modern, fair and sustainable productive model, when they do not relieve those who really need to strengthen the resilience of society and the economy, when no new wealth is produced and a new financial derailment is then very likely. The draft law we are debating today is emblematic because it will determine the course of investment in our country in the years to come. This is the framework law, on the basis of which State aid will be granted for private investment in our country. Considering the investment gap that exists in the private sector in Greece since the years of the economic crisis, we understand the value of private investment. Pandemics and accuracy form a suffocating framework for citizens, households, businesses, the primary sector. The government is unable to stand up to the circumstances, when other European governments have already taken steps to support small and medium-sized strata and businesses. What will development law have to do when the incomes of citizens and businesses are being depleted from the accuracy, energy and operating costs? From this draft law, unfortunately, there is no consistent plan reflecting the new objectives and the new strategic directions for the economy and the productive model that we want to develop. This would only result from an evaluation of the results of previous investment laws and a discussion with the various economic sectors to take account of modern needs and a study of priorities. On this basis, a national production plan would be drawn up with a specific target by industry. Unfortunately, not all of this happened. In fact, there are no branches that are looking for in the European Union and attractive to foreign investors, such as the chemical industry, medicines, health, mechanical equipment and electronics. Furthermore, the new development law does not cooperate with other sources of funding such as the NSRF, the Recovery Fund, the other national plans and the Medium-term Financial Strategy Framework. What national development strategy are we talking about if all of these sources are not working in a concrete direction? Our Movement, Minister, traditionally and ideologically supports the small and medium-sized enterprises that your Government unfortunately seeks to disappear. For us, their survival is a goal, since they are the backbone of the Greek economy, significantly strengthen employment, regional development, competitiveness, innovation and ensure social stability. We are opposed to a bill which leaves medium-sized enterprises out of substantial support, restricting them only to tax exemptions. This, together with the reduction in aid to cooperatives, prevents small businesses from becoming medium-sized and, at the same time, paves the way for large enterprises to absorb small businesses. Apart from a nymph, the individual business numbered in over six hundred and fifty thousand, but also in the tourist industry, the units below three stars, except for some of the special conditions and the non-predominant accommodation, that is, in effect, half the country's hotel units. We believe that individual businesses should be included for certain schemes such as agri-foodstuffs, farmers and all the tourist accommodation. We do not agree with a bill evangelizing regional development, but it does not give the regions the power of the investment projects concerned or which do not take into account the specific characteristics of each region in order to support those who have suffered natural disasters, which are plagued by unemployment and demographics, which raise the burden of migratory flows.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u339	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u340	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, adopt our proposals so that the new development law becomes part of an integrated development policy and not just a detached tool. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr. Francis. I shall now give the floor to Minister Vésyropoulos to put it very briefly on Article 6 with a general number of 1205 and a specific number of 120 amendments. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the finalisation of the parliamentary procedure with the rejection of the motion of censure tabled by the party of the Police Vice-President has confirmed that the only credible government proposal in the country is the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis. That is why, beyond Parliament's confidence, it also has the confidence of the great majority of the Greek people. Our priority remains to strengthen the development process in every way, such as by attracting investments - facilitating economic activity - balanced regional development and supporting outward actions that give a comparative and competitive advantage to our country. These principles are reflected in the development law which is currently being voted on in Parliament. A new and attractive framework is being established for the development of business and economic activity to create investment. Together with the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the NSRF, they open up a new and hopeful perspective for our economy. I have taken the floor to refer to Article 6 of the amendment with a general number of 1205 and with a special number of 120, tabled by the Ministry of Development and Investment, which facilitates the process of donations by many of the popular Greeks abroad. I am referring to the possibility for Greeks established abroad for at least ten years to donate their movable property located abroad with exemption from the donation tax. The condition is that they are established in a foreign country for at least 10 consecutive years and in the event of their relocation to Greece they have not been longer than five years. There is also a tax exemption for the donation of foreign-owned assets, since the donor has been established abroad for at least twenty years and has not returned to Greece. We are basically referring to assets acquired abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the content of this amendment meets all the conditions for broad cross-party support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u343	And we thank the Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Themistoklis Himaras, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to development law. I'll start today! I shall refer to the fact that I think that this legislation is of great value, especially in relation to the period in which it comes. At the moment, the implementation of the NSRP of the new programming period 2021 to 2027, which also includes a series of entrepreneurship enhancement actions. Allow me here to make a point which responds to the objections raised by Members of Parliament in general at the meetings of the committees, but also today and yesterday. It is not possible for the Vice-Presidents to know that the NRP of the new, but also of the previous programming periods, supports small and micro-enterprises with a number of actions. In other words, it is not possible for some to think that development law is the only aid instrument. I'm coming back. It's a big time. Now is the start of the implementation of the new powerful development financing instrument, the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which our country has at its disposal, which, on the one hand, particularly provides for the private investment component, and, on the other, does not strengthen the banking sector through the creation of combined lending products that facilitate access to low-interest enterprises. At this point, Minister, let me also point out as a small- and medium-sized one - and for Mr Papathanases, I say it for Mr Georgiadis too - that a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country remain out of bank lending. The Ministry of Development should continue in the same direction and with more stress on the pressure that it already exerts on banks in relation to the substantial channelling of loans to businesses. It is also important to monitor, because the European Commission has now adopted the new regional aid map with increased rates of 5% to 25% over the previous period. For example, in my country, in Central Greece, the maximum aid intensity for small, medium-sized and large enterprises in the previous programming period was 40%, 35% and 25% and with the new map for the current period they form at 60%, 50% and 40% respectively, and in some cases for micro-enterprises at 70%. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past investment projects have been kept on paper for decades. Candidate investors were caught in administrative procedures, in an endless hunt for signatures and approvals. I have already mentioned from the Step forward that development law, n.4399/2016, has moved in the right direction mainly at target level. But the truth is that despite the good intention of development law, the result was not the expected result. The delay in the evaluation, approval, control and disbursement of the grant has affected many investments. Restless businessmen who were ready to grow, people who believed they could do it, those who insisted on investing in Greece in the crisis, who were swimming against the current, found themselves blocking the delays and ended up several of them in the banks' guises. I have said many times that I have the luck not to know entrepreneurship from third party descriptions or from books. As an entrepreneur I have been subject to many investment funds, which I myself have prepared. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Development's political leadership because it really gives answers to key problems that all the previous development laws have had, but above all, because if something is common and given to people like me, it is the value of time in terms of design, integration and implementation of an investment project in development law. All the stages that I mention briefly describe the equilibrium exercise that the Greek company is called upon to carry out that seeks to make use of the investment law. This is a time-balance test which, if lost, could destroy the company itself and, of course, would lead to unemployment. Time, ladies and gentlemen, is the most important factor that can have a decisive impact on the realization of an investment. That is what we are dealing with today's legislation. For the treatment of a problematic bureaucratic model that was followed until now, the following provisions are inserted: a shortening of the time to respond to the requests submitted; a participation of individuals, auditors, engineers, etc. evaluation and control procedures, finally a new integrated IT system, structured with modern technology, which will allow procedures to be accelerated. At the same time, we are expanding the possibility of integrating new dynamic sectors of the economy by establishing thirteen new thematic aid schemes in relation to the horizontal form of the current law. Also in the right direction is the reintroduction of the amount of investment projects to the EUR 100 000 for micro-enterprises, as was the case with the previous law and, of course, the possibility of the three-star hotel being integrated into the development law as they constitute the backbone of Greek tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of Greece in recent years abroad is a country that is blocking investment, hosting the business environment and constantly putting bureaucratic obstacles. From 2019 until today, one of the most important objectives of the Government and Mr.Mitsotakis was and remains the simplification of bureaucratic processes and the strengthening of entrepreneurship of every size and I would say that, despite the persistent but in vain attempt to demonstrate that there is no structured strategy to strengthen business, the truth is by the way opposite. There is systematic as well as coordinated work in this direction, and in the course of a global health crisis without precedent, a crisis which could lead to delays in many areas. Therefore, instead of being forced, if you want, to apologise for omissions, for delays, we can talk about tangible, tangible and enforceable policies, which we are legislating and implementing: the 'Investing in Greece' Act, the law on the simplification of bureaucratic procedures, the reductions in tax rates are specific policies, policies leading to the country's new era of business development and, on the basis of these policies, we will ask that we be judged at the end of the four-year period by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I now call on the SYRIZA Member to step up the process, Mr Konstantinos Zachariadis. Here, you have the floor, Mr Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, a report on yesterday. Democracies never close microphones! Now for today, for the material of the bill. I hear one argument - Mr Georgiadis said before - that in any case we are fantastic in the recovery of the economy, because - as he says - we and three other countries have arrived where we were before the pandemic, while others have not arrived. Because I know that Mr. Georgiadis is in any case an intelligent man, does he take into account what the fact that the Greek economy from 2009 to 2016 had a contraction of 25%? Does it not make sense that along with this drop and 9% fall last year is easier to rebound than other European economies? And I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen, that you say 'IOBE's report', 'IOBE', 'IOBE'. Yes, sir. Did you read this report, or did they give you two points to say it? First of all, IOBE, as you know, is not one of SYRIZA's think tank. Not at all. But what does the IOB report say, which you reproduce? "Many risk signals for the systemic problems that afflict the Greek economy sent IOBE, with a peak of the twin deficits that widened alongside the rebound of the economy: First, the fiscal deficit that escalated, due to the "pollutant" of horizontal state aid, and second, the deficit in the trade balance also opens dangerously, indicating that together with lost GDP the country recovers ignorant and all its structural weaknesses. Conclusion: without the necessary reforms it does not change the economic model of parasiticism and very low productivity.’ IOBE tells these things. It says, of course, about the recovery in 2021 and 2022 and it says that in order to be sustainable we need to change some things that the Greek economy had as pathogens before entering the moratorium crisis. It also says in particular ‘The budgetary deficit: a large budgetary adjustment is required to limit the deficit to 1.5% this year from the 6.7% escalated last year. Much more because in a period of great uncertainty and uncertainty about the new financial rules since 2023, Greece has had the highest public debt in the euro area." How are you going to make this financial adjustment, Mr. Papathanassis? Where will these resources come from? I say this because we have all had to make a financial adjustment in these years. What are you gonna do? You're going to raise the taxes? Would you cut the benefits of the social state? What's your magical recipe to get the deficit from 6% to 1.5%? I also see a great deal of joy whenever the country borrows at low interest rates, etc. IOBE: "The upward trend of interest rates on international markets increases the financing cost of the country. It is crucial that the spreads and lending costs do not increase compared with other euro area economies.’ I would remind you that from the top it says that we have the greatest European debt. Did we realize that within a two-month period the country's loan rate went from 0.8% to 1.8%? Why did that happen? Have the main sizes of the economy changed? Oh, no. It changes the environment in which the economy operates and you here celebrate in a situation where all the studies are intended to be particularly difficult for Greece. And, of course, it is also the issue of inflation. So let me leave what IOBE says. Just read the best, so we can have a conversation. Is that a development law? So do you realize that all over the world and within pandemic together with development are also discussing the issue of inequalities? What does it mean to recover 10% and 9% and 8% for someone whose salary is almost as much as the electricity bill? What does it mean to this man? He tells him something, he passes through his house, passes through his family, passes through his everyday life? Oh, no. Here we have a crisis which increases inequalities and you are watching it. See GSEW's announcements - it's not GSEW's SYRIZA - of chambers all over the country. 50% of entrepreneurship can't handle it, it can't afford to afford basic expenses. You always have the strategic big business, there you give it all, go get something to eat, no middle, no small business. You insist on a comprehensive model, not on the whole toolbox that has emerged internationally mainly from progressive governments and also from conservative governments with social sensitivity to the tools that the crisis gives. You don't know, you don't hear, do you follow the international economic debate on the trickle down economics issue? This thing doesn't work, it doesn't work. In Greece, there was a period in the early 2000s, in the late 1990s, when there was a great growth rate. What happened to the infrastructure? What happened to the social state? What have we paid in these ten years of crisis? We are paying for all these institutional and programming delays. In addition, public and private wages are a part of the movement of the economy. Will you ever give priority to this part or will you always give priority to increasing profitability? What will happen to the economy if it puts a little more emphasis on wages, so that they can make the crisis? That's the reality. The man, the citizen cannot see the economy as sizes which are not reflected in his everyday life and the idea he says "if I increase wages I will do inflation". Here, inflation has been poured out, wages are on. We raised the wages 11% and 22% of the minimum wage, not inflation increased. It's a small piece of traffic. But what do you care? You are interested - in a minute or so, Mr President - in having the world of work established, in having their working rights broken, in not being able to make the backbone of the middle class and have a normal everyday life. And of course, let's see how many resources go to the center, how many people go to the district. Why is local government outside? I've been to Epirus recently. I didn't know - and it's my deficit - that there people don't have gas, they don't have rail. How will this country develop without basic infrastructure? We made Rio Antirio, they all celebrated at the time. We didn't see to it that the train crossed across the street. And now we're talking about developing? How will it develop? Things are simple. There are models. We're not going to discover the powder. We - and what we did when we were government, but also in our programme and many progressive governments around the world - want to diffuse the economic benefits in society, to avoid all forms of social exclusion, to increase the nationally produced value, to increase the balanced development of the regions of the country and the dynamic of a 'green' economy. In other words, we want to create a resilient and sustainable productive model for a strong, sustainable and resilient Greece. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr. Zachariadis too. The Minister has asked for the floor. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u348	I take the floor why Mr Zachariadis raised a few issues and I feel I should give some answers. Really, Mr. Zachariadis, how do you understand growth? You said 'will go through someone's house, what we are discussing today?' But all the quintany of a development model, namely, a development law, is to pass through someone's house what is created, so that it can be distributed as a wealth in society, where it needs to be. And because you spoke about things you did or you want to do - no matter what, I realized that it was in your planning - but it was not in your planning during the course of governance, because the development law that was in force, n.4399, did not treat regions equally, it did not see where it needed to be able to direct resources. You had created buckets, Mr. Zachariadis, and through these buckets, whoever could have taken. The result is that the regions of our country have not developed with a balanced development, because you have not had any provision in your bill that gives this element, not only in the regions, but also in the sectors of the economy. How, then, did you expect farm food in western Macedonia or in western Greece to grow evenly, if you like, with farm food in another region? At the same time how did you expect that tourism that is a dynamic sector would not absorb 60% of resources by leaving the other sectors with much smaller and smaller resources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u349	And we thank the Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Collis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u350	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by representing a rural region and coming from a rural family myself, I could only express my complete delight, because the bill before us gives us particular impetus to the primary sector by incorporating two exclusive aid schemes for the new agri-foodstuffs sector and the processing of agricultural products. This bill is a new production model, fully in line with modern European data. It is assumed that our Government remains unbelievable in the position that the objective of increasing investment activity is only passed through investment. The logic of horizontal aid that has existed in the previous Act of 2016 is now being eliminated. It is true that in the past we have seen little investment in research and development. So the time has come today to take the big leap, a decisive leap for 'green', sustainable and sustainable development, through a single framework covering the country's investment needs, not through fragmentary interventions. The new development law places our country in a new orbit, meets the modern requirements of entrepreneurship, highlights the comparative advantage of each region and exploiting the potential of the primary sector. Furthermore, it promotes the development of industry, while at the same time strengthening the competitiveness, credibility and extroversion of our country. In the new development law, there are thirteen thematically targeted aid schemes. In particular, digital and technological transformation of enterprises, green transition and environmental upgrading of enterprises, new business with emphasis on primary production, fair development, research and applied innovation, agrifoodstuffs and processing, processing of non-agricultural products, business extroversion and export activities, strengthening tourism investments, alternative forms of tourism, large investment. As we see, ladies and gentlemen, this bill concerns almost all sectors of the economy. Particular attention is paid to young entrepreneurs and qualified staff. It provides for fixed auction cycles on an annual basis. Furthermore, the new law introduces significant innovations throughout the process of assessing and controlling investment projects. express deadlines are laid down for the adoption of the relevant administrative acts. Not like you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, who has really been lagging the files into the offices of the ministers for many years and has taken more than two years to assess them. This, of course, has led to the investment projects being cancelled in practice and many of the operators who had put their own funds to damage. And all this because? The explanation is simple, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA. Because you don't believe in investment. ‘SYRIZA and investment’ can only be taken as a joke. You consider the attempting crime to be a crime. Your past testifies. To start with the 'COSCO' investment, which you fought rabies, regardless of whether at the end and under the pressure of lenders you had to separate 5% of the PPA without negotiations. Let me remind you of your attitude when you were a government in the investment of the Greek. You discovered preserved buildings, you discovered hidden forests, you discovered antiquities. Eighteen Members of your Parliament asked the Ministry responsible to declare half of the Greek as an archaeological site. He led you with the archaeologists in protests when he met the CAS with a slogan "The Greek belongs to the people". And, of course, the Member himself said at the time that anyone who wants to invest in SYRIZA should count everything and decide on it. SYRIZA Declaration 100%. So you invested in SYRIZA? Bad of your head. You're gonna have a good time! Didn't you do the same with the investment of Halkidiki in Skouria? You tried to expel the company badly by organising demonstrations, the head of which were your MPs and your key executives in the region. By Ministerial Decisions you revoked licences, but then cancelled by the Council of State. This is the biggest defamation for our country in the business world in and out of Greece. Even today, after persistent negotiations and agreement with the company and the Greek State, we have direct investments of 1.9 billion dollars, a thousand four hundred new jobs, which together with the old ones and those directly involved in the operation of the mines exceed five thousand. What was the result of your policy? In 2015, in 2016, 2017 and 2018, our country in terms of growth was in the last place among the states of the euro area, and today we are in the third place. Now, of course, you're going to Step and you're cutting off for investors, for small and large businesses. Turning back to the bill, I am also referring to beneficiaries of aid, which are commercial companies, cooperatives, social cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, producer groups, urban cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, under founded or merged companies, joint ventures engaged in commercial activities, public and municipal enterprises. As far as the aid part is concerned, we must say the following. The aid rate is increased by 5% to 25% compared with the rates in the current framework. The new rates are even potentially up to 60% for large businesses, 70% for medium-sized enterprises and 80% for small businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my speech, I would like to stress that the path of positive economic performance is once again being opened. Our country returns to development orbit. It's the best time for our economy to make the big leap to the future. The approach of the project is clear. It changes the country's productive model. The structure of the Greek economy is redefined. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u351	I, too, thank Mr. Collias, for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been attending the meeting for several hours and it seems to me that the majority Members are returning to yesterday's events, as well as to the 'NOVARTIS' case and repeating a point of view which has nothing to do with reality. I would therefore like to say to all the tonnes that, first of all, yesterday's day had one fact. The major thing is that the speech was removed from a Member, which has not happened in the post-political history of the country, and was removed by a Member, because the President-in-Office abused his right. Read Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure and you will find all the answers there. The political signal of yesterday's day was the removal of speech from a Member. And that's why you're not talking about it. Secondly, you feel that you have a urine wind in your sails, because the courtesy of Mr Georgiadis has been filed and you refer back to the case 'NOVARTIS'. I do not know how many of you who have spoken today have seen more than one page or non paper that the party gives you on the NOVARTIS case, but I have to tell you two very specific things to know what you are talking about. The NOVARTIS scandal is not Greek invention. The NOVARTIS scandal came to the country from abroad, from America. That's how he got here. It's not building some of SYRIZA's dark brains. First one. The second: In the case of "NOVARTIS" there is a practical compromise between the company and the US State, which was confirmed by the New Jersey tribunal, with which the company undertakes to pay 350 million to the US State, because it needed to bribe Greece with government officials. And those who have dealt with the case, in addition to the non paper that they distribute to you, you will remember that confrontation at that time, a year ago and, if the term "government officials" means "government executive", such as the logical interpretation we, or "patients of hospitals", of legal persons governed by public law, as you would like to believe. Third fact: The Law Council of the State, acting unanimously, instructs the Minister of Finance to initiate the procedure for compensation the Greek State for the damage suffered by the illegal practices of ‘NOVARTIS’. And for one year, you have done nothing in that direction. We have tabled two questions as a SYRIZA parliamentary group and the second time he told us that he has just received some information from the US public. We are in 2022 and you are not claiming the money that we are accounted for as a country. And I understand you very well. Because if it's a construction, how are you going to ask for money? And if you're going to ask for money, then how's it going? That's to know what we're talking about in this Chamber. The development now. So the draft law "Development Law - Greece Strong Development" is signed and by an irony of history reminds of the strong Greece of the period of Simitis. I would remind you that at the time the growth rates were plundering. The 2004 drunk, the European Cup Olympics, were the seizures of a situation that resulted in the bankruptcy of 2009. I am saying this because it is very important, not just the growth rate, but the conditions and the way in which it develops. We are discussing the development law and the question you do not want to answer is what the benefit, gui bono, which we lawyers are talking about. For whom, then, is the profit of this development? For the vast majority of society? For small and medium-sized enterprises? Or for ordinary business groups and state-owned entrepreneurship? For SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises that make up the backbone? Or for the few and elite, politicians and friends of the government? The SYRIZA Act operated effectively for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today you want to reorder the scenery. You are transferring resources to great entrepreneurship, draining and depriving resources from the small and medium-sized ones, that is, what you are doing with the Development and Resilience Fund. You finance businesses with banking criteria and go to businesses that can go to the banking sector to get money and those who need and are excluded from their banking system are given a kick to go below. What has been repeatedly proven, the so-called trickle-down economics, that if they make a lot of money, the tops will invest to get money and the bottoms will not work. He left it until Biden left. And you stay on the back of this logic of the 1980s and 1990s. I would like to say two specific elements for the bill and to conclude, Mr President. The bill suffocates the role of the regions rather than strengthens them. It constantly weakens state expertise and therefore the role of the State in controlling the parties involved. It establishes the certification report for the verification of completeness and legality to be filed with this application, will be signed by a member of the Chamber of Economic Affairs registered in the National Register of Certified Evaluators. This check was carried out by the agency. So now he's going to be private, and he's going to be charged with private. You have predicted an increase in aid intensity to 100% of the regional aid map, since the investment takes place in mountain areas, areas up to 30 km from the border and islands with a population of less than three thousand inhabitants. That was a provision of the current law, of SYRIZA. So we are telling you that here you must set another parameter, with downward population criteria, so that the social dimension can also enter, not just formal requirements. Take a look at the area of the Neroscope, from Drama, the northern Evros, which is wintering. This way you will be able to put these winter areas on the aid map. You also raised to 50 thousand investments for small businesses. So we say to you: Improve the creation of tourist beds in the three-days, which are the small hotels in the province, which were primarily made with the 'LEADER' and which are located in the last tourist regions of the country. These are the proposals that give a sign of social sensitivity and, above all, social justice. You can't hear them. I do not know - because I am not a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Minister - if the proposals from the Chamber of Economic Affairs for the development process were tabled. I am tabling them in the Minutes, to form the basis of arguments, if and if you decide to make the law more social and fairer. In the rest, everyone understands that this law is not a solution to the country's development problem, and for this reason, its vote is a one-way way to SYRIZA. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u353	And we thank Mr. Xanthopoulou. Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I see that some people are trying to bring back a case that has now been definitively and fairly closed down. This is the case 'NOVARTIS'. They'll be staying in the past. We with this bill, what we care about, are tomorrow, the future of this place, and that is what the citizens themselves understand and want. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the government is faithful to its vision of a strong, strong and competitive Greece, and that is why it is introducing a bill to the vote today, which is an incision both for its completeness and for the innovations it introduces. With the new development, the country wins the bet of speeding up and simplifying procedures, giving new impetus to entrepreneurship. It is a fact that there is a very significant change in the productive wealth. The pandemic over the past two years has changed sharply the country's investment priorities, focusing on healing wounds. Leaving behind the wounds opened by the pandemic, our country is looking forward, putting investment, development, restructuring development policy in the first place. Since 2021, major projects that change the country have been under way in full. Greece in 2021 was found among the first countries in terms of investment. They unlocked large investments, such as investment in Greek, as well as the installation of large piles, as well as the activation of hundreds of jobs. Indicatively, with the creation of facilities in Greece by "PFIZER", by "CISCO", TeamViewer created thousands of jobs in young people in our country, who may have hesitated in the past to turn around, but now they are returning and fully highlighting their brilliant science. With the new development law, the Greek Government creates financial development instruments, reshaping the financial incentives offered by the relevant Community average to those who want to invest in our country as best possible. In a friendly, reliable and sure environment, our country is ready to accept investments, shaping and building a stronger place in the development European chess board. The new development law achieves the transformation of the business production process, by integrating modern cutting-edge technologies into a truly faster and flexible environment. A broad grid of actions is introduced to cover all aspects of the business initiative and all stages of the business life cycle. The new investor, the new businessman, will no longer feel alone. He will have next to him any support required from the first steps up to the development of his business. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that all kinds of development laws are traditionally the most popular tool in the consciousness of the business world, with particular added value. The new development law becomes more modern and considerably differentiated, looking forward to a very positive footprint. The new institutional framework attempts to make a significant breakthrough in relation to the past. The new law looks towards the future and, of course, becomes targeted and thematic. With thirteen thematic and flagship schemes introduced by the benefits, they will be important and varied both in terms of response to the needs of enterprises, but mainly in terms of development acceleration. With these thirteen regimes, new investments will be designed, developed and implemented in modern forms and full security. For the first time - and this is particularly important - the Development Board looks and looks forward to the development of the regions, enabling investment projects to be submitted, which will contribute strongly to the development of both the regional and the national economy. Besides, the Prime Minister himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has repeatedly talked about the importance of regional development, but also about his commitment to support the region. In addition to large national investments, which are either implemented or expected, initiatives such as agri-food and primary production, processing and supply chains, support for tourism investments, alternative forms of tourism, etc. are included in the Development Initiative. For my region, in the Evros region, these areas are extremely important tools for further development policy in the region. Ministers, it is encouraging to take special care for the Eastern Macedonia-Thrace Region under this law. The region is mentioned in those that need to be further strengthened and based on the development law under way, with up to 70% being strengthened. I would, of course, like to propose that the increase in the subsidy rate should be considered in areas which have a dramatic decline in the population, such as the northern part of the prefecture. This will benefit the region, give new jobs and strengthen entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a truly flagship draft law, which we will shortly be called upon to vote on. But we have to be in front of our responsibilities and ask ourselves: do we want a country which is a gratuitous of past politicians or a country that looks ahead? I understand the role played by the opposition. It must, obviously, satisfy a particular audience, show that it counter-proposal, criticising and thus showing that he is really interested in the good of the place. However, old-fashioned tactics must now be eliminated. You must finally, once and for all, show that the country is your priority. On big issues in the country, we, as a New Democracy, have always been solidarity and associates. We know very well that time is money and we need investments to start, with less bureaucracy and less costs. We are all judged and we will all meet before our responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen, the new development law is the best answer to the question: What Greece do we want? A Greece that has a strategic plan and a strong supervisory role in business and investment development or a simple Greek monitor in developments? The answer is given. For this reason, I invite you to support this draft law, to be worthy of the circumstances, and to become partners in the vision of a new Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u355	We, too, thank you very much for keeping time, even with a time-consuming rather than a delay. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolis Syntakakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much, Mr President. The debate on the new development law gives an opportunity to show even more clearly the strategic matching of the New Democracy with SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the other parties other than the Communist Party of Greece, regardless of the individual differences and what they will finally vote for. It is yet another pro-monopoly law, based on industrialists and the European Union, aimed at serving the new, fresher 'green' and digital requirements of capital - the 'needs of the era', as Mr Papathanase said a moment ago - that is, new plans for capitalist development, flying to the people the crumbs of capitalist profitability. It is a lie of the whole New Democracy, when it says that development law is for many and small. If that is the case, then why the hundreds of thousands of workers, self-employed, free professionals in tourism, commerce, telecommunications, transport, poor farmers see their income shrinking, burdened with countless burdens, taxes and trenches, with the cutting of subsidies, with constant appreciation and accuracy, constantly having the nest in their neck. Not by accident, the self-employed, the very small and family-owned enterprises are characterised by the'structural problem of the economy', they are obstacles to the concentration and concentration of capital. Under the SYRIZA Development Act up to 31-12-2021, three thousand seven hundred twenty-six support projects of very small enterprises in a total of eight hundred thousand, i.e. not even 0.5% of enterprises, with an average investment of 3 million euros. New Democracy is doing the same now, which under the outcry has reduced the minimum amount of investment for the micro enterprise from EUR 150,000 to EUR 100,000, that is, what SYRIZA had. I mean, one or another. And we ask: is there a very small business, is there a self-employed person who could receive an investment of EUR 3,000,000? Who are you kidding? Assuming that we have two businesses, which one presents a plan of EUR 110,000 and the second EUR 3,000,000, to which one will be approved? In it, obviously, of 3,000,000 euros. It is clear that the limit of 100,000 euros is for the eyes of the world. Who is the young man who can also pay the sum when he owes Michalus? For these reasons, for reasons of impression, the government has no question of reducing the amount from EUR 150,000 to EUR 100,000. You did the same with the non-refundable advance that, not only did it not breathe to small businesses, but it threw them out, strengthening the large, confirming the nature and priorities of the ESRB programmes. The same as the self-employed, the small businessmen in the focus, the tourism sector, the related professions that accept the consequences of the pandemic and the economic crisis, the monocultures of tourism and the so-called "extrovert" with their debts accumulated and the paddocks being more common. The small business tourist accommodation industry is rightly protesting in Crete and SETKE - I will, in fact, present in the minutes the letter of protest by the Federation of Business Tourist Accommodation of East Crete "KNOSOS". It is about forty thousand companies pan-Hellenic, five thousand of which are in Crete, are small to twenty beds, family businesses, mostly without staff, seasonal, operate from April to October. So, by implementing the 'private privileges to the few and powerful' strategy, they were not included in the development law - and could not, of course, be otherwise, we have no illusions about it - only directing all subsidies and incentives for investment in large hotel units above three stars and in luxury or alternative tourism infrastructures. For two years you have left them to their luck, 80% of these small enclosures have been excluded from financial support measures because of the pandemic with various pretexts. In the past 80-90% of these enterprises have been responded to support schemes for tourists and small and medium-sized enterprises. Another proof, therefore, that development law, development laws in general, are the only priority for supporting large-scale, air and shipping companies, tourist agencies and not, of course, the permanent mortgages that pay for the crisis they cause. And one wonders, where is this great tourist miracle? Search in their pockets, big-time hotel owners and tour operators that are overflowing with profits and yet they are full of crabs, when they are to give the prized hotel crews. They invested them, invested them in four and five, while enjoying favourable arrangements with tax exemptions, tax exemptions, new provocative incentives granted to them by development laws with a coarse millions of for free tourist view by Ministries, resources of regions, municipalities, and Community funding. Innumerable list of privileges and facilities. Of course, the JRC never had any illusions that there is a case, even one in a million, to satisfy the demands of many and small people in capitalism either in a development phase or in a crisis phase. Besides, the Prime Minister himself does not miss the opportunity to recall that the financial margins he has to support business groups will not be affected. The same was said and the previous governments did. Therefore, who, in the case of a single business world, smacking self-employed and entrepreneurial groups, cannot hide the casting nature of the development laws with the economy and your designs to be completely subordinate to the service of the dominant pluralism class. You are even selling to workers of seaweed for silk ribbons by telling them that the growth you are engaged in will be balanced, balanced, sustainable, fair and that you will eliminate regional inequalities and a whole lot of other lies, avoiding the fact that capitalist competition is leading to the anarchy of production, to imbalance at all levels, which are literally found in your DNA. Emblematic investments, such as the Greek, the former American base of Gournes in Crete, the great roads around Greece, which the people pay with the tolls, as demonstrated by the recent snowfall. Airports, ports, waste, saints, national parks are all granted to private individuals. The 'green' investments with coarse billions for wind turbines and photovoltaics, to make, says, our country's energy hub. Show me a development law, a development plan that promotes anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism projects, hospitals, schools, children and infant stations, improvement of rural provincial roads, improvements in projects contributing to the protection of the income of the poor farmer, environmental protection measures, compensation affected by disasters guaranteeing the income of workers, the survival of self-employed people with relief measures, as the JRC has often proposed, and you have rejected them unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u357	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u358	In any case, our people must immediately be in a place of battle, because only the people can save the people and break any links with the parties of capital, with the European Union and conflict with them. In the face of, of course, the vicious cycle of capitalist development and crisis is the need for a higher organisation of society - socialism, we say - where centralised planning, socialised means of production and labour labour control are the keys to success leading to social well-being. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u359	And we thank Mr. Synergy. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Tropho Alexiadis. Then there's Mr. Melas, then Mr. Muzalas, Mr. Vasiliadis, and he goes by saying. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor. And years and years of your celebration of St. Trophoon today.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u360	Thank you very much, be well. And for those who don't know, St. Tree is the only saint that holds, in the image of the sick. He is a protector of the vineyards: and of the fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u361	So you're gonna have to go a little bit more to the left.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u362	I would have liked to be either in Imbros or Bytina, but I have been here since this morning, since 11 o'clock and starting my speech, and I would like to make it clear clearly and unequivocally clear: of course, with Paul, I am saying it quite clearly, I have said so from the outset, so that there is no questioning or anything else. I should like to congratulate those who went up to the Bureau today for their attitude which they have actually 'emptied' and deplored the attempt to suffocate yesterday to Paul Polakis - not Paul Paul Paul Paul Polakis, personally but to a Member of the Greek Parliament. Because in the many anxietys I have, Mr President, and honourable Members, when I come to Parliament to speak on the subject of keeping time, what I shall say, if I am on the party line, I am not off-line, I was nervous now that I was coming here in the morning if I would be 'on or off-the-spot', i.e. not to say something that is out of the question and use Article 66(8) - we were hearing such a strange thing last night - and on the basis of this article, my word is removed! So I came here this morning as a good MP, the bill started, I was full of stress, two MPs spoke, and then the relaxation came. Why? Because Adonis Georgiadis spoke. Some people are gonna say, well, did you hear Adonni Georgiadis and relax? Yeah, I'm relaxed. Why? The debate on the bill began, two MPs from the Congress and Opposition spoke about the bill and then the Minister spoke. He spoke nineteen minutes! Do you know how much time he spent on the bill? Not a second. He said nothing, and the Bureau did very well, and I congratulate him, who did not close the microphone, did not deny him the floor, he did not even give him a hint, because this is what we will solve once and for all. Those who are trying to sneeze and force a peculiar "democracy" or other situations to forget it. There is no way we can let such things evolve within the Greek Parliament. And because I heard yesterday and various other strange things - I do not want to use any more designation - for Article 66, I would suggest to the person who said so last night to see some videos from MPs, in particular, of the New Democracy. They do not just have the problem of taking the floor here and reading from a written text, although some people find it difficult to read even what they have written. It's not just the problem they're reading. I have never read a written speech, neither when I was Deputy Minister nor now. At the time when we had many provisions to suggest and had terrible and tragic pressures on our parliamentary time and work, I have never read a speech. I'm using cards, of course, but I haven't read a speech. So let the person who said it yesterday about Rule 66 what Rule 66 says about written speeches and see the videos of the Members of the New Democracy, the first problem being that they read their speech and nothing else, and the second problem is that they say the same. Why? Because those who write to them get the same text, try to change something at first, in the middle or in the end and have the same arguments. That's a good policy for us. However, I would also like to stress something else that has been heard this morning on terrorism issues and, above all, on the dreadful suggestions that have been made in this Chamber by some people. Go out here and talk to those who have political courage and say clearly if their intrusions are related to SYRIZA. Because we have taken a clear stand. But I ask the New Democracy and hope that the New Democracy will answer sometime. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, when the Minister of SYRIZA was taking a bullet in the letter and in the letter there were threats to his life and the life of his family what were you doing? I've been talking about it for the first time, but hypocrisy is enough! When he received a letter of threats to his family, which was for the first time such mafia threats since 1974, did New Democracy make a statement? If she got out, please post her to her site, because I may have lost her from my file, but I remind you she unfortunately didn't. Why? Because he was the Minister of SYRIZA and his name was Tryphoon Alexiadis. But let's come to the bill, because I'm afraid, I'm still nervous not to tell me that I'm "outside the subject". Let's come to the bill and start with a question, Minister, and joy in your courage that you're still here at this hour! There is an unequal treatment and exemption from the new development law of a sector which contributes to the safe operation of ports. We have heard a lot of, a lot of pain about workers, about jobs, about growth, etc., unless I make a mistake and this issue is resolved. Please, let me tell you, to apologize and say, it's been solved and I haven't been able to see it on the pages of the bill. The Association of Shipbuilding and Shipbuilding Employers' Association in relation to the bill and their exception has issued an announcement. The Hellenic Association of Shipowners of Shipwreck Navy Antipollutants says: "Horizontal bomb the Development Law on Safe Navigation in the Greek Seas". They also emphasise national issues, because at the moment Turkey is building eight new modern shipping tugs, while we are creating problems with non-participation in development law. Finally, the Panhellenic Trade and Maritime Payments Association, and it asks to be incorporated into the development law. I do not understand, does the pain in the ship repair zone in Perama not exist for jobs and national issues? I am presenting them, of course, in the Minutes. But I come to the development law, to the very correct Article 1, which says in what terms rules are introduced to speed up the procedures for assessing, approving, controlling, certifying investment projects, etc. Yes, but because Greece became a big party on these issues, we had because of this party that took place, various people having illegal money abroad, having settled their cases, etc. A little tolerance, Mr President, I shall end. Will you tell me what the SYRIZA government had to do at some point, which inherited lists that had to be investigated by foreign services, not by checks carried out in Greece? What was he supposed to do? Should he bury them or leave them in ministerial offices like others did? You're telling us to apologize. I will today apologise to the tax officers who have dealt with these cases for many years, auditors, police officers, judges. I will certainly apologise to the journalists, who helped uncover these cases, because unfortunately the 'SIEMENS' case, the Lagard list, the Borgians list, the 'NOVARTIS' case, the Panama Papers and a number of other cases are assumptions, which are the responsibility of the country's political system, because some politicians, state and other factors have put the finger on the honey and now we are also being shaken. I do not blame anyone in particular, I say that unfortunately these cases have not been brought to light, they have not been brought to bear responsibility. As far as my stress is concerned, I will not go out of the question and my word is removed, now look, you brought us a 264-page bill and then you brought five amendments from unrelated ministries to the bill, from the Ministry of Immigration, from the Ministry of Education, etc. A total of 264 pages is the bill and 145 pages the amendments together with the legislative amendments. If anyone is now beginning to say about the amendment of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum - I imagine, Yannis Mousalas or someone else - you will say that it is not a matter. Let us be serious in this Chamber. You do your government work right and we will stand up. One final word, Mr President, because we have tabled an amendment as a SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which is signed by eighteen Members, calling for the retroactive tax on pensioners to be exempted. People are rightly indignant. The Single Network of Pensioners - and I submit the relevant document in minutes - says 'Retroactive Forum: robbery against pensioners'. It is a pure toddler by the Mitsotakis Government, which actually takes back the retrospectives it gave retired people in October 2020. So what are we asking for with this amendment? Unfortunately, the Minister responsible has avoided being placed. But let the government that started with PASOK, together with the pension cuts, take responsibility for what it will do to pensioners. We ask for the very simple, zero tax exemption for pensioners. Shutting down...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u363	Shut up, though. You're far beyond time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u364	A phrase, Mr President, and I am closing. I say it again, so we don't get confused. Of course, with Paul. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u365	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u366	Mr President, Mr Alexiadis referred to tugs. First of all, Mr Alexiadis, I would like to tell you that even Mr.4399 from your government had the tow trucks. Therefore, it is something that, apparently, prevented the tow trucks from entering. From the NACE classification of means of transport, I read that transport by towing or pushing of barges all risks is included in the means of transport, i.e. transport from the operation of these tugs. It therefore describes them as means of transport. And service actors give that interpretation. As a means of transport, as you know, they are therefore excluded from the exculpatory regulation. That's the interpretation we've got right now. Let me remind you that the development law is trying to support the activities and business, but also the investment projects that give jobs, which have integrated investment projects, is of great importance. From there on, on the specific subject you mentioned, neither did you have in the law your own, but also from here the designation remains as a means of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u367	I will now give the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou, and then he is Mr Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying that safeguarding democracy and its institutions is primarily the responsibility of its servants, namely ours. I am, of course, addressing the whole House. There is another thing about the communication or the aesthetics of a parliamentary presence and the insulting of Parliament's institution and the questioning of the Rules of Procedure. What we have seen yesterday and today has no place in the Greek Parliament nor can we in such cases have equal distances. This is not what you are honouring, ladies and gentlemen of KINAL. The rest, as far as Minister Adonai Georgiadis is concerned, were judged by justice, whose decisions we must respect and there is no further discussion. The Greek people, citizens, Greek women and Greeks are concerned with the real problems of the country. I can't help but mention another sad fact that we had yesterday in the city of Thessaloniki. I am referring to the murder of a nineteen-year-old child, an act of blind violence, the pretext of fanaticism, in its most extreme form, which has nothing to do with the principles and values of sport in our country and internationally. There's nothing wrong with the fan or fan in a heinous murder. We must all be concerned about this and I am sure that the authorities will immediately bring the guilty to justice. I am actually going back to the point, Mr President, and to the very important draft of the new development law, the institutional instrument for the development of the Greek economy that we are discussing today. This is, Minister, the implementation of a further election commitment from the New Democracy and I would say a real reform of what our country so much needs. This development law, once voted, will replace L.4399/2016 and introduce a new, radically different philosophy that reflects the web of strategic development plans such as the Pissaridis Commission report, the Recovery and Resilience Plan and the strategy for the fourth industrial revolution. The draft law emphasises innovative technologies and the digital transformation of enterprises, contributes to the green transition by putting clear limitations on environmental management business and favours the creation of economies of scale, reducing production costs, with the benefit of the end-user, namely consumers. In addition, the emphasis is also on strengthening less recognised areas of the country, such as the lignite areas included in the Fair Development Goal Plan. It is very hopeful that at last the state has the will to exploit the capital called the Greek province. I would like, Minister, to give you a special base on this. There are regions of the country, such as Pella, which have been on the margin for development for years, but which have a dynamic based on the potential of the land, the natural environment, but also on people, especially young people who have an appetite, qualifications and incentives to deal with the primary sector, industry, services, tourism and their country. We must invest in these people and in their dreams, and the best way to do this is to ensure that they have access to the necessary funding so that their vision can be transformed into a healthy business. In my opinion, the draft law that we are discussing can achieve this objective, on the one hand, by attracting new investments centred on the thirteen institutional regimes, including and specialising in a wide range of business activities such as agrifood, processing and supply chains, tourism, traditional and new forms, new technologies, development of software. On the other hand, by pooling resources from aid schemes such as the Fair Transfer Fund, the Public Investment Programme, the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and others, these resources, in conjunction with the tax exemptions provided for in the draft law, can provide for any new investment, be it a major project of an international consortium or a family small and medium-sized enterprise, the necessary comfort in the first phase of implementation. At this point I would like, Minister, to join my voice with a number of colleagues and also from our own party in calling for greater support for the tourism sector. I would, if possible, like to join the provisions of the draft law and the non-hotel units, the rented rooms and apartments, that is. The last two years of the pandemic have been disastrous and any financing of these enterprises may contribute to their survival. I return to the draft law, which is not only about funding, but also about introducing reforms and reducing bureaucracy and simplifying procedures. From submission to assessment, control and adoption of administrative acts, the draft law includes arrangements that speed up procedures and facilitate the investor, in particular in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. A first indication of what really good work has been done by the services and the political leadership of the Ministry of Development and Investment has seen in the hearing of the bodies and discussion in the preparation of the draft law by the relevant committee of Parliament. In addition to the experts' specific comments, which the Ministry has heard and I am sure it is looking into some of them in their integration, positions and proposals at the outset concerned the extension of the bill and the integration into it of as many enterprises as possible. So there is already a positive climate. And from the standpoint of the Opposition, modest and realistic proposals have been heard, with the exception of little ambiguity. That is why, Mr President, I appeal to all the parties that have expressed their reservation to the committee, but also to all colleagues, to think and decide nationally, to listen to the voice of Greek entrepreneurship and to vote in favour of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u369	We too thank Mr Vassiliou and the time approach. And I now invite the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Ioannis Mousalas, and then Mr. Cairides follows. Here, Mr. Muzala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, there would be so many people left at 12:30 an hour in the Chamber. Before I started my tribute to the Vlahakos, Karathanase, Yalossos, who didn't want to be heroes, they wanted to be with their families. But they are heroes and we must honour them in a way that, unfortunately, the Greek state has ceased to honour them after New Democracy became a government. I hope that this will be corrected. Yesterday we had a democratic diversion in Parliament. Anything else is poor and does not respond to reality. The speech has been removed by a Member of the Greek Parliament without there being any reason for that, except that it raised an issue which hurts the New Democracy and did not want to be heard. Today's effort to cover this diversion without obviously affecting Mr Athanasios and ultimately referring Mr Polakis to the Ethics Committee shows that there has been a government planning for this diversion. But it is a diversion and we are in favour of the Member, who has been undemocratically taken away from him. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, you have screwed up. With snow, we're lost. The pandemic has the highest death rate throughout Europe. And I sincerely remember you, and I would like to ask - and my colleagues are not here now - that you are proud to see the video raised by the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group and applauded the Prime Minister, who said that 'you have evidence that they are more dangerous or not' and you were university professors, doctors, lawyers, lawyers and economists. And you were applauding what? What if they put it in your sixth grade, don't you go to high school? Look at the video and tell us how proud you are and how proud you will be after a certain period of time for these copy-paste speeches you have made today and what you say about Mr Polakis. The fires stop when everything is burned and reached the sea. With the floods, Cardinal's still not overrun. With education, children suffer. Universities are squeezing. The university police are the solution. At work, you are dropping the eighth hour. Remove the APRC. You let the employer, the employer's arbitrary maneuver. The insurance policy is privatising it. You want to privatize the water. It's a new story. We have precision. In all these difficulties our people face how you react? You're responding with lies, too, and the Prime Minister, with secret evidence and extra-institutional interventions, with complexion, 4 billion directly commissioned. You go out and tell the House that income has increased. Are you serious? To a winter people, to a people who have a problem in the supermarket, which has a problem with heating, you say income increased? You're lying about 30 taxes imposed by SYRIZA. We've told you to bring them in, you guys, see them. Nothing. Unemployment has fallen. Based on ELSTAT, you are using six hundred thousand unemployed, based on OAED is a million, those who received as SYRIZA in 2015 and led them to the six hundred thousand. Youth unemployment is 39%. Prenatal treatment - you say - has been funded over SYRIZA and Facebook comes out and disproves you that it is one of the staked lies that are said. You say investment apnea when 2019 has been a record of investments in SYRIZA. Paulakis took over the seat. How is that possible? Instead of talking about the parliamentary diversion from Mr Athanasios, Paulakis took the seat. So he was sitting here, trying to get someone else to come and push him, didn't he? What exactly did he do? At the same time, Mr. Georgiadis was making videos. "The journalists are a gang," says the Prime Minister, while they are in court and, indeed, today - the Prime Minister said - they went to give him souyadas in Thessaloniki, not to kill Polakis, but to shave him if it makes it difficult for him. And instead of the Prime Minister of the country smiling this vandal, he thanked him by smiling. And, finally, so many days later, we still haven't learned who closed the Attica Street because that was the case on the Attica Street. The "Attica Street" says the government did not want to close it. The government says that the 'Attica Street' did not want to close. You walk with lies, with falsifications of the truth. I now want to talk to the Communism. Listen to me. The government's on a run. It's just a matter of time. It will fall not with noise, with laughter, because it has become a joke and the Prime Minister and the Ministers and the actions of the government. And there is no better indicator for when a government falls. Do you think our people will mind if I am liked by Mr. Castanides? Do you think our people are concerned about if your Mr. Paulakis is a sympathetic person and the relationship between you must be restored? Do you think our people are concerned about whether Mr Pafilis will be doing the October Revolution or not? Do you think that our people are concerned about whether I consider the aesthetics of Kriton Arsenis to be good or bad and that we should find them in order to give a solution to the right-wing government and Armageddon that she creates in the country? Ladies and gentlemen of the House, he is concerned about whether or not his wages will be increased. We say an increase of EUR 800. Our people are concerned about whether we will defend the extension of the National Health System by establishing a special salary, such as Mr Gennimata and Mr Agrinos, had done at the beginning of the establishment, whether we will be recruited or made redundant, whether we will regain and re-create hospitals or let the New Democracy lead them to closure if we develop primary care. The society doesn't care if we'll like Mr. Polakis or Mr. Meikopoulou or Mr. Varoufakis. It is of interest to society if we are to defend public education, whether we are going to eliminate the barriers to universities and the financing of private colleges through our people's pockets, whether we are going to leave schools in the pandemic, whether we are going to abolish or change the matter bank, if we are not going to allow university police. Our people are interested in whether or not the bankruptcy law will be abolished and in no way is he interested in me, Mr. Loverdos, being liked or if Mr. Loverdos likes me. Our people are interested in returning the eighth and abolishing unpaid overworking. If the collective agreements are to come back or we will have flexible employment relationships. Whether the APR will control the employer's arbitrary nature of large enterprises or not. If there will be public social security or it will be privatised as they go with subsidiary services. What is going to happen if intervention is to be made so that the accuracy is reduced so that the households can get through? If we resist privatizations.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u371	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u372	I'll be done in a minute. We will resist privatisation, deal with the consequences of this ideological tendency to privatise or allow water to be privatised. And finally, whether we have security or repression in the fight for rights. I think, gentlemen, that these questions will be asked by society to answer. I think we can and should give an answer in which we will achieve the successful removal of right-wing, right-wing governance. That's up to us. It's the responsibility of all of us. Whether we'll like Paul, if we like you Muzala, if we'll like anyone, it's not about our people. It has too many serious issues. The New Democracy is deadlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u373	Please hang up. Look at your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u374	I'm closing, Mr. President. He's going to drive right and right. It's a one-way road to this one. It cannot impose these measures otherwise. Will opposition be united on the essential issues of the people? That's the bet that society and history put on us. That's what we need to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u375	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitris Kairides, now has the floor. Mr. Courides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u376	Thank you, Mr President. I admit that when I hear SYRIZA representatives talk about politicians who become a joke, I listen to them with caution. Because they have a great deal of experience in this area. And experience that crosses the country's borders if one judges by the fact that a term, a term of assumptuous, became international in 2015. He became an international. International SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras in 2015 around Europe and around the world. Because I've heard the previous guy and his chief talk about jokes, I think a little self-criticism and a little self-awareness doesn't hurt. We have many important things to say about development. And we said. I wonder how much Paulakis and how much "pollution" our lives stand. I'm not actually going into it. I think that from one point to the next it is really humiliating for all of us to go around the height of the Sfakians. Without actually asking myself, in fact, in a good mood toward SYRIZA colleagues, do they really think that if this is the dividing line, the majority of the Greek people will be with Paul and with this type of behavior? They think they have to win this? Or are they enclosed in a minority that leads nowhere to them? Leave the substance, the aesthetic, ideological, political gap. Is it good for them? Is it in your interest? I wonder. We've heard a lot outside of the subject. I won't answer and I won't get into all this. I will insist on development. I will insist on development, ladies and gentlemen, because we must be honest. Our country comes from a decade of investment descent, unprecedented and unique. The percentage of investments in 2019 delivered by SYRIZA to the new government was by far the lowest in Europe. That's a huge investment gap back in the decades. We had a decade of disinvestment where the number of investments was not enough to make up for depreciation. This, in combination with demographic contraction, therefore fewer workers and with lower productivity, the remaining as a result of deinvestment, means a decline in GDP. It means a shrinking of the economy. And that must be reversed. There have been major steps. Already in 2021, the pandemic recorded a very large increase in investment and already announcements about large foreign investments in our peak areas are optimistic: "PFIZER", "DELOITTE", "JP MORGAN", now also Facebook. Is there any doubt in anyone's mind that JP MORGAN would not come to Greece if it were Alexis Tsipras in power? I think no one. Another type of government, another type of climate, another type of policy, is needed to attract these investments for the first time, and to value Greek businesses which, until yesterday, had known very few of them at value of 1 and 2 billion and 3 billion. To gain this added value you need another policy and certainly not the soundings, weepings, and boldness that we lived for four and a half years by 2019. Development is multifactorial. I'm talking about a pluralism. And it's obvious that development law is just a tool. It's not enough on its own. It takes too much more. They need reforms. It needs a favourable tax environment. It takes a lot. It takes the capital pillar in the insurance, which we introduced for the first time in order to stimulate private savings. But it has a role and shows the priorities and directions of the government. In this sense, Minister, I congratulate you on this comprehensive bill, the good of which you, too, have also been analysed by the members of the Cork Partnership, and I will not insist on that in order not to be repeated. However, I would like to concentrate the remaining two minutes on two issues. The first is about regional disparities. As financial coordinator of the Intergroup on Development of Thrace, I would like to invite you to see the support through the prefecture and regions of Thrace. We've done the talk, and I'm sure you're listening to it by agreement. It is a very sensitive region, a border, next to Turkey, with a demographic problem, a number of other problems which we analysed in detail in the discussions that we had and eventually recorded in the committee's conclusion. The second concerns state aid. It is a debate that must begin in Greece. The question of State aid has come very far ahead of the pandemic when measures were needed and where State intervention has increased significantly to support the economy. What is permitted and what is not allowed from a point of view, and then it is also a matter of negotiation. The State Aid Unit of the Ministry of Finance has to be strengthened. There are people where they do their job and with great disapproval. However, there is no doubt, in my mind from the experience I have had in these two years, that there is great room for improvement. We had a debate this morning in the Committee on European Affairs, where I was presided over with the relevant Deputy Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis. We have talked about the major, important, problems in Europe. We need to learn to talk about the less attractive details and footnotes once and for all and to give the battles as this government gives it to bring policies in favour of national interest from Brussels. So here we have a lot of work to do on the issue of state aid. We need to learn to talk about the small ones, about the less attractive ones, about details and footnotes, and to fight, as this government gives them, in order to bring policies from Brussels in favour of national interest. We have a lot of work to do on the issue of state aid and on strengthening the claim we need in Brussels to strengthen our businesses, as other countries do abroad, in the rest of the European Union. I would like you to see the question of medium-sized enterprises again - a matter that has come and returned - because they are the ones that make big investment in our country, exports and so on. We've given the four guns to the small and the small, but not all the weapons in the middle. We also have the problem. We dealt with it in the small ones with the exception, but we have it in the middle. At this point, I would like to stress that too many Greek companies are problematic, according to the terminology of the European Union, the 2014 regulation, although they are viable and many of them have returned to profitability, they export, they are bankable and have many prospects. Unfortunately, however, they cannot be subject to a number of aids, mainly European, because of this condition. And this fight with State aid is a battle to be given to Brussels, so that the European South as a whole, which was hit very much over the past decade, can also achieve at this level the exception required by the composition of the economy and the situation in which these businesses were found. It is not a "job" business. They've been businesses that have survived in a tough crisis over the last decade. As with the small ones with the cooperation of Italy, we must do the same for the medium-sized ones. This is a top issue for us here in the South, which is not about the North, but it is about us very much here, especially Greek businesses. I would like to congratulate you once again for the fight you have given. I know how much you've dealt with all the previous months with this bill with all the agencies. We should speed up the procedures and get away from the permanent bureaucratic turbulences and diseases that have affected the effectiveness of previous laws.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u377	Finish, Mr. Courides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u378	Your people say it. Read the book "What development?" of your own Loi Labrianidis, my old colleague from the university and your Secretary-General for Investment, whose book I also made a review of "Kathimerini", because I believe in this dialogue in the halls of the Parliament. I do not believe in 'chigina', but in the real and serious dialogue and not in the screams, in the voices and in the glories, in order to take the country forward, as she deserves. Be well, thank you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u379	Mr Anastasios Bartzokas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as a new Member, but above all as a person I deeply reject any barbarism, particularly institutionalism, I declare my deep grief for what has happened in Parliament yesterday and today. And if I have to make a comment, that is just one: we are judging, all of us together and those who systemically and systematically have anti-institutional behaviour will be judged, judged, and in the end they will be tanned. If we want to be honest and to make the self-criticism of all of us as a political system, in terms of the three-day debate of distrust, citizens are not interested either in the inner-party struggles of SYRIZA and KINAL, nor in the political 'bra de ferret' nor in the masturbation within Parliament. Citizens are interested in how to improve their everyday lives and their lives. They're interested in life and life. And we in the New Democracy promised the citizens that we would guarantee them a better life, a better pocket and more jobs. In view of this, why are we talking about development law, the institutional instrument for entrepreneurship and investment in our country, some people wondered: Do we need to change the existing framework for granting state investment, namely No.4399/2016? The answer is that it is not just necessary, but that it is imposed not only because the conditions and requirements of the business environment have changed, so we must adapt, but also because the existing framework of State aid for the investments of L.4399 is extremely problematic, despite the changes we have made to its individual arrangements. And I mention the expression 'problem', because this defines a framework which fails in all the objectives that it was supposed to be trying to serve. This has also happened for two reasons which make up the small but also the large picture. Both are the result of the identity of SYRIZA and its ideological elbows. The small picture is that the establishment of Law4399 had terrible institutional weaknesses and a very heavy regulatory framework, as it provided for countless ministerial decisions. It has also brought about a stiff bureaucracy identified in the framework of the assessment and submission of investment projects. It also had important issues of a lack of time schedules for the repayment of the investment. On the other hand, on the side of the big picture, this law was drawn up during the capital controls in the midst of an unprecedented tax raid and a robbery attack on the insurance contributions of free professionals. Mostly, however, this law, Law No.4399, was drawn up without the national development strategy plan being established. So there was no plan. The hope for investment was blind, condemned from the outset and with it doomed, unfortunately, to entrepreneurship. In other words, it was an unreserved law and retrospectively doesn't make us any impression that resulted in failure. Of the eight schemes, only four were declared. When we received power, three and a half thousand investment projects were pending for approval. Lost time and lost money for entrepreneurs who once again paid the marble of political decisions. I remember the period of his vote that SYRIZA executives called Law No.4399 as the law on small and medium-sized enterprises, as the tool that would broaden the export base of the Greek company, as a measured development law. That was a mistake and a lie. The truth is that this law was not measured. It was a moderate law under a moderate government that did not even have moderate knowledge of the "enterprise" and its needs and thought it was aimed at moderate entrepreneurs and moderate Greeks in general. It was an empty shirt, as today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had called it. The bill we are debating today is not one of the same. It comes after a series of interventions, which have a positive impact on entrepreneurship and the pro-investment climate, such as the ongoing reductions in taxes and insurance contributions. It comes after recovering our credibility from the international investment community. It establishes thirteen thematic regimes by recognising them as national priority areas and speeding up the procedures for subsidizing and evaluating them. It focuses on the region, as for the first time it becomes an attractive destination for the installation of new investments and writes its investment policy strategy, not with the style of hope, but with a realistic focus on business and business, aiming at efficiency. And on this basis of effectiveness, I have the following proposals. As far as individual companies are concerned, we must strengthen them with every financial instrument to maximise their potential so that they can grow and create their own economies of scale. Secondly, we cannot ignore the dynamic developed by small tourist accommodation, as well as the role played by tourist agencies and tourist buses. We need to work on an alternative proposal for their support and development, even at the last minute. We must not forget the reality that we are shaping for society. We are here for today's society and not just for the society of the future that we are visionating. Thirdly, we need a real-time monitoring mechanism of how the projects to be subordinated are, to see what the real malfunctions are and to correct them in good time. That is why I propose the creation of an Observatory within the Ministry, which will monitor the implementation of the development law throughout the process, identify malfunctions and fuel public administration and political leadership with suggestions for improvement. In conclusion, the laws are not PDO products, and that is why we should not vote against the bills on the basis of who suggests them and whether they are our ideological opponent. The regulatory framework, which is established, is assessed on the basis of the value that this brings for the citizen and whether he can change his starting point in a better life direction. These are the measures and the standards for society, and that should be our measure. Our reference should always be the citizen and, in the case of development law, our reference must be the businessman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr. Bartzokas. I now call on the SYRIZA Member to step up the process, Mr Meikopoulou. Here comes Mr Papaliou, with whom we will conclude the meeting. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u382	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's a little late, but I'll try to get a little alive, if I can, the conversation. In fact, I have listened with great interest to both Mr Ceridis and Mr Bartzokas and several Members from New Democracy who have been trying all day but also in the past few days to make an argument to justify yesterday's democratic and institutional catastrophe, especially in relation to Mr Paul Paul Polakis's style. And now I come to ask myself when aesthetics are more important than truth. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen? There's no real pretty. Most of the time the truth is ugly, very bad. I really can't think of a beautiful way to describe a bad truth. Therefore, this attempt to lure a colleague of the Greek Parliament for his style, I think he does not honor New Democracy, does not honor the government. Let us listen, let us consider what he said in relation to the enormous issue of 'NOVARTIS'. But I was just thinking about something else. This is not the first time right-wing governments have ruled the country. But this, Mr Papathanassis, Minister, is a right-wing government after a ten-year catastrophic crisis, but for which he has never been apologised, but has returned more arrogant, more ironic, more customer-friendly than ever. Two and a half years now, Mr. Mitsotakis' government has revealed to us all her true face. And you know why I claim that? It could be said "Why are you in a hurry to say that?" I think that under the conditions we are all experiencing, there could be no government to hide, because the management of the pandemic imposed a policy, with continuous decisions and measures with a direct social impact. Thus, the conclusions that one would draw in four years are exportable, with the same security in the two and a half years that New Democracy governs. On the basis of this, therefore, of the bad truth I mentioned, I would first like to stand on the apologies to the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. It is an apologies - let me say the term - is attempting to present itself as an act of top political and personal base, an apologies which, after having authorized local government, has tried to blame the meteorologists as well and has disguised themselves with the company itself, a "excuse" within pity regarding fines for the occupied and non-responsible state for Katechaki and Marathon, a "excuse" that is not honest, a "pardon" Minister, very well weighed and measured by communicators when it is understood that as well as to divide the responsibility and divide it, the chaos of the previous days has a name. Citizens trapped for hours in the ice in I.H. and trains, areas without current from a bad weather hard but not unprecedented, which had been predicted days ago, and this government has exhausted its readiness and performance only on SMS. I have heard the Prime Minister praise Mr. Chardalia, to thank and praise Mr. Stylianides. So far, I have not understood why he has just asked for'sorry', when everything has been done well. Let me remind you that the New Democracy Government has been elected to take advantage of an enormous tragedy in Eye, regardless of whether it has subsequently rewarded those who have dealt with the tragedy which it has proclaimed in the election. He has made great promises to create a Civil Protection policy that will be over-effective in order to be disproved from reality. From the floods of "Waterness" and "Janu", the snow of "Medea", the fires that burned the country in the summer and the most recent bad weather that paralysed Attica, the government ends up apologising for the design that could be better, for the coordination that could be more effective and many more "will". By mistake, one discovers what I told you before, the bad truth. The final state, therefore, collapsed and revealed the state of Feudus, Mr. Mitsotakis' haystorm. But it's awesome. Whatever stone you can pick up, you find appointments from the window, friends, relatives, poster, payoff of election letters, direct assignments. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I have been wondering for a very long time and I am trying to see where the New Democracy is in the New Democracy Government. Where is this party with the huge centre-right tradition? What I see is the Mitsotakis family, the Mitsotakis environment, Mr Mitsotakis' friends, a little advisers of Mr Simitis, some people from the People's Orthodox Alert. Nowhere New Democracy! Nowhere! It's really very revealing. So what did the New Democracy Government teach us? He introduced, Minister, the term 'individual responsibility' as a response to her own irresponsibility. Individual responsibility in pandemic, individual responsibility in education, individual responsibility in heat and weather. On culture issues, what did the Members of the Co-Population say to us? The government is not prescribing molecular tests because, he says, the Greeks do not have the appropriate culture and they will abuse. Or the most recent one, in Athens, citizens do not have the culture to know how to lead to rain or snowfall. Fines! The government is resorting to punishment and economic extinction over the age of sixty, setting back the economically weak, pensioners and workers. We are talking about social division at a time when unity is more necessary than ever. The government has targeted young people, health and vaccination. The motto that concerns you, Minister, is "Consider or put a padlock" - that's what you say in all the small and medium-sized business - in a economy with small, small and medium-sized enterprises that are barely standing or pointing to the middle-sized producer. Private initiative as a panacea: privatization of health, privatization of PPC, privatization of social security, nothing left in public. Invasion of "Firms" in the country's political life. Poor guy. You are swinging the finger arrogantly in Anti-Population, looking high among the citizens, when high executives are interacted and then blackmailed by sub-televisions. You know, it's a really terrible thing, but the people of this country are like experiencing a parallel reality. One is the one that watches television receivers, where everything goes well, everything is done, and we are doing well in the pandemic, we are doing well in the economy, and the other, the inconsistent one, who lives every day, the tight embrace of the government and the media, the given consensual - MP who deleted from New Democracy claimed this - is the only result produced by Mr. Pecha's list. Under the pretext of the Koronian campaign, the government smashed the Greek people's money to control the media, disappear opposition voices and actually advertise itself. The selfies government! One more comment I will make because I have spent all my time a wider political comment on the development bill. You know, there are two images again: it is the image of Mr. Papathanassis, Mr. Georgiadis, of the New Democracy in general, of what constitutes growth for the country, but there is also the image that world and international fora have. I don't know if you're aware of this, but ECONOMIST has put the Acropolis on the list of the most disastrous interventions that have been made in monuments of culture around the world in the pandemic. And if you think that with this development law, excluding small, individual and medium-sized enterprises from any funding, you have understood what the country's production profile is, then you are actually living in a completely different country from the one you are currently coming to legislate on. The material of the bill does not concern the backbone of Greek production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u383	The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. George Papaliou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the inertia of the New Democracy Government in dealing with the problems of the large social majority is its characteristic. In the crises - fires, floods, snow - it is not doing anything. The summer at the fires decides and orders the evacuation of the villages. Now in winter with the snow decides and orders to stop operation, public and private holidays and allows things to evolve until the end of phenomena. The state and society close because the government of the 'excellents' has neither a plan nor a plan that knows what to do. That's how roads closed. The final bluntness of the government and the collapse of the state, which emerged once again at the recent bad weather, had to, since the Prime Minister and the government, as they say, assume political responsibility, lead to resignations so that the road to early elections could be opened. In any case, let's come to the bill. The current bill is signed: "Development law - Greece Strong Development". I'd say that's not a bill title. Reminds the advertising spot in the Prime Minister's own confession that communication takes precedence to politics, to the essence of things. Development laws are the most important tool for strengthening entrepreneurship and attracting investment. They are instruments of great political, institutional and budgetary importance through which a significant part of private investment is strengthened directly and indirectly. However, they mainly operate by road, that is to say, the direction that the economy is seeking to take. The current bill, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the few and the strong, embracing government's perception and policy aimed at and seeking to change the production model in a neoliberal direction. It is introduced for discussion without an assessment, an assessment of the application of the previous development law, which was largely exhumed even by government ministers. In the context of the previous development law, it is apparent that it is subject to a higher percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises than large ones. This fact also highlights the different orientation in relation to the current draft law. The government's development proposal establishes a mechanism for strengthening major investment projects, which will intensify the concentration of the economy in many sectors. In this context, and on the basis of these, individual companies are excluded, the minimum amount of investment projects is increased, banks are involved in a greater and more suffocating manner. Enterprises that do not have access to the banking sector - and this applies to 80% of small and medium-sized enterprises - are practically excluded from the arrangements of the development bill. The incentives given and thus the resources allocated are aimed at aggressive acquisitions of small and medium-sized enterprises and their absorption by the few large business groups. A distinction is made between evaluation methods. The direct assessment relates to specific aid schemes and is carried out independently on the basis of the principle of time and resources available. This method of assessment conceals a channelling of aid to large enterprises. Contrary to the other schemes - the fewer - comparative analysis is applied. In addition, the Ministry of Development has more powers to concentrate and the powers of the regions are reduced accordingly. The regions' development planning directorates will receive business plans up to 1 million, while the Ministry of Development and the Minister of Development will decide on the rest. Finally, the evaluation criteria are not differentiated on the basis of the level of development of the regions, with the result that regional disparities are intensified, since there are no specific forecasts for the reduction of regional disparities and the further strengthening of enterprises in the Greek region. Gentlemen of the government, their small and medium-sized ones you consider burdens and zombies for the economy, while for you the region is forgotten. To conclude, the result with the implementation rather of the bill, when it is voted on, will be the main volume of resources to be absorbed by the large companies in Attica, which will function proliferationally in the intensity of the disparities between the Lectury and the regions. The aim of this is to facilitate and strengthen specific economic and business interests, since in the end most of the resources available will be directed towards a small and strong economic elite. On the other hand, we intend to change the productive model in a progressive direction that has characteristics of sustainable and socially fair productive reconstruction in the country. And one last thing about the increased aid rates for regions affected by natural disasters. These are welcome. One parentheses: in areas such as firefighting Gorty and Megalopolis, nothing has been done, so that the citizens who live there are desperate. However, with regard to the increased aid rates, which are granted, it is not clear whether the increased aid will be granted at the level of larger territorial units. Since natural disasters have a negative impact on wider areas, if increased aid is granted to these regions, there must be a hierarchy, classification and such distribution so that the regions directly affected are given priority and full benefit. I shall conclude, Mr President, with this. In the debate on the motion of censure, as in the debate on the current draft law, it has been shown that the economic policy of the Government of New Democracy leads to further strengthening of social and regional disparities. At the same time, it has been shown by the government that the institutions, which lead to undemocratic aberrations of all kinds to the detriment of the rule of law, are being prosecuted by the judiciary, the fallout of journalists but, unfortunately, even Members of Parliament, as we saw yesterday at the sitting of this House. Unfortunately for you, the hopes of those of our fellow citizens who had left to accept and support you have vanquished. It's time you left. The cataclyst for you has no end. That is why the end of the New Democracy government's mandate must be speeded up, with early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u385	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall resolve the sitting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-02-01-S1-commons.u386	The meeting for Wednesday, February 2, 2022 at 9:00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continued discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development Law - Greece Powerful Development".
