ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] As you know, today it was decided by the Conference of Presidents to make an anniversary reference in the framework of a joint celebration of the national parliaments of the European Union for the International Holocaust Memorial Day. The joint celebration is a proposal of the President of the Austrian National Council, Mr Sobotka, while participating in the 'We Rember' campaign of the World Jewish Congress and UNESCO. In this context we will be keeping a minute of silence today, while illuminating the House of Greeks with the colours of the campaign. In fact, the President of the Parliament presents a wreath at the Holocaust of the Greek Jews in Athens. I would remind you that the Presidency of Nikolaos Voutsi has posted an anniversary plaque in Parliament with the names of the Greek MPs - Jews - who were killed. Today's debate in plenary with the participation of representatives of the parliamentary groups will take place next Tuesday so that it will not be covered by the news of the last few days. At this anniversary event, a representative from each party and the Bureau will speak and a total of an hour will be spent. So please, just today, by participating in this global day of memory, to keep a minute of silence in memory of both the Greek Jewish witnesses and all the victims and heroes of the Holocaust. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Memory eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Development Law - Greece Powerful Development". In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that, in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, as well as the Ministers, a circle of priority involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and then twelve speakers will be followed. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I'm telling you, it's a hundred-five. Members who wish to speak by teleconferencing via the Webex platform will be placed when the speakers are in a natural presence. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 21 January 2022 to discuss the draft law at two single sittings in principle, articles and amendments. Informatively, too, I tell you that tonight we will go at least by midnight. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u2	So the House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to take the floor off the agenda. The reasons I will explain to them during my brief speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u4	You have the right under the Rules of Procedure. I should like to inform the House that, under the Rules of Procedure, both the President of the Civilian Staff and any other Chief of Staff will in some way be given to him off the agenda. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be extremely brief and concise. I am asking today for an exceptional speech, because one day now known bad weather has been completely and definitively buried in the snow of Mr Mitsotakis, leaving thousands of citizens - women, elderly, families, children - to the mercy of bad weather with closed roads, without power even today, without help, without their screams of agony ever reaching the missing, the difficult times of the crisis, Prime Minister. And he also buried this snow at the same time and the latest delusions that might exist, that this Prime Minister and this government are willing and able to be taught by their mistakes, taught by the oligopolises and by the dramatic results of their politics and ideas. I have asked for the floor today exceptionally, because every hour we speak, every hour that the government remains in power, four and five of our fellow citizens are losing their lives, without the devoted people of the stripped, the devastated and abandoned national health system being able to help many of them, as much as they should. Our people are being lost daily, who could have been saved if you had supported the national health system for two years now. And the total account of our people who have been lost is currently approaching the twenty-three thousand. Our country is the worst in Europe in deaths per million people. And that's a tragic account, it's a constant crime that no communication can hide! I have asked for an exceptional reason today because the government and the Prime Minister, who do not believe in the state, nor that the state should, when the public interest demands it, intervene in the market, refuse to listen, refuse to understand, refuse to feel, refuse to take measures and have left speculation and immunity of interests to be ravaged, in fact, by millions of people and thousands of households. Even worse, I would say, speculation facilitates speculation and destroys every concept of security and social cohesion, by deciding in the middle of the worst energy crisis to privatise the public electricity company in full, not to reduce the excise duty on fuel, the value added tax on food, not to immediately increase the minimum wage, thereby condemning the cold, poverty, hunger and the intolerability of the majority of our society, without showing any sign of mood to change their policy and attitude, without even showing that they understand the survival problem for a large part of our fellow citizens. Precisely, and the people who are responsible can assure us that everything is going well and tells us that when they meet them, the citizens do not accuse them of lyrics, but they are asked for selfie outside the supermarkets. I have asked for an exceptional reason today because the deterioration of Mr Mitsotakis and the corruption of the endemic state, spread over the entire state and undermines, destroys and neutralizes any possibilities of the state mechanism, because the Rusphetti, the indestructibility, the provocative reward of the blue Golden Boys, the dismantling of public money without any hint and no consciousness leads society quickly to insecurity, anger, demolition and the economy on the cliff, as well as the same old practices of opacity, waste, distribution of the State's clothing and preferential treatment of the elites, it is mathematically certain that they will produce the same results we have experienced in the past. I have asked for the floor today for an exceptional reason, because the tragic failure of the state in every test, in the fires of last summer, in the pandemic, in last year's snow, in the recent snow, on every front, where the security and life of the great majority are tested, produces ever more massive and intense phenomena of state authoritarianism, repression and persecution of those who are protesting, those who have another view, and this insults democracy itself with the efforts to travel, buy out or blackmail the information that is not worth Greece's freedom and struggles of the Greek people for democracy, a development that is not worthy of Greece's freedom and the struggles of the Greek people for democracy. I have asked for the floor today for some reason because nothing good, nothing positive, no more the social majority, the majority of logic, the majority of democracy awaiting this government and the current Prime Minister. On the contrary, the irrationality of their policy leads them to new social and national tragedies. Their rule is that it is at every difficulty that it develops in tragedy that they neither can nor want to draw any conclusions about their policy, but that they give it all to individual responsibility. For everything, there's someone else who's to blame, except them. And they treat everything in terms of communication, with theatrical apologies, like yesterday, with the sole aim of protecting not the citizens, not their security and life but the image of the Prime Minister and the profits of their friends. I have asked for the floor today as a matter of urgency because, in a few words, ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer going! It's no longer going with Mr. Mitsotakis' irreversible government. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] And because we have an obligation to despair and anger the majority to make it a force for political change, and because I believe it is my duty to put my conviction in front of the Greek people and Parliament, which I believe is now also the conviction of the great majority of society that this government must go away as soon as possible. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] The sooner, the better! Before it is too late for society, for the country, for democracy, for all of us. Leave, gentlemen of the government, because you can no longer face the accumulated wrath of society with half apologies, polling of joy and propaganda of calamity. Go, because you have cost yourself and continue to cost the Greek people dearly and not only money but also lives, rights, freedoms, insecurity, fear and insecurity that has become the daily life of the Greek citizen two and a half years now. [[Applause lively and prolonged by the wing of SYRIZA]] Get out of here! Go because it's not worth citizens, it's not society, it's not worth so much in this country. For all these reasons, I have asked for the floor today as a matter of urgency to be tabled on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - A Progressive Alliance motion of censure against the worst government that the place has ever known from posting. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] Because it is time to leave because this place must breathe, because in democracy there are no dead ends. As far as we are concerned, we will do everything we can to help us both in this House and in the social struggles to provide a democratic way out. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] And we call on all the forces, social and political, who are on the side of democracy and progress to give the 'parents' to this great battle to free the country from the Mitsotakis regime. We call on every citizen to be assembled in our struggle to restore democratic normality, to return security and social care for every citizen, to return social justice, to the social state, to public health and education, to return security with freedom and freedom safely to this place, that is what we deserve! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u6	Please, calm down. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and a sufficient number of Members of Parliament's Group, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have tabled a motion of censure against the Government, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 84(2) of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. As far as I have been informed by the Members of the House, it is noted that the motion of censure is signed by at least 50 Members, as required by the relevant provisions of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure. This proposal will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u7	I now address the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, to answer this question on behalf of the Government and the Prime Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Chief of Staff Response, obviously your proposal is accepted by the government and the meeting is suspended. Tomorrow afternoon the debate on the motion of censure and the answer to what the House said will give it in the next three days. Don't worry at all. You will receive all the answers to all the overruns and all the lies that you have said before, from the Greek Parliament and from the government majority! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-27-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 28 January 2022 and at noon, which will be decided by the government in consultation with the representatives of the parties, and a special agenda will be issued in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. End time: 12.35 ́
