ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda on the motion of censure, I would remind you that tomorrow, from 10.00 a.m. to 2.00 a.m. and Sunday from the second mediterranean - from 2.00 a.m. to 7.00 a.m., the afternoon of the EGE will have a rapid test and it is worth taking advantage of this possibility, because we will be here a three-day period - obviously we have a maximum presence - but the three hundred with a personal presence will also vote, not at the same time. In any case, however, it is important to take care of ourselves and others around us, to make use of this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering SPECIFIC MATTER PROTECTION Discussion on the motion of censure against the Government submitted by the Chief of Staff of the Opposition and Chairman of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The debate will take place in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 142 of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with the appropriate application of Rules 91(5), 96 and 97 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In particular, with regard to the organisation of the debate and following a decision by the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the procedure followed should be as follows: The debate will begin with the speech of the two Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Dimitrios Tzanakopoulou and Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, who have already been designated by their parliamentary group and sign the motion of censure. Speaking time is 15 minutes for everyone. In view of health measures and in order to avoid crowding, we have proposed not to register speakers with the electronic system - the electronic on-site system - as defined in Rule 142(5) of the Rules of Procedure, but to register with a list of speakers given by the parliamentary groups. This has already been done. I therefore propose that Members' speeches should be organised in circles. The first circle of speakers will be made up of six Members, one of each parliamentary group, with ten minutes a year. Subsequently and in accordance with paragraph 5 of Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, each of the following twelve Members shall be composed of the following: five of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, three of the SYRIZA and one of the other of the four parliamentary groups with a speech time of seven minutes, without the right of second reading. If one of the Independent Members wishes to take the floor, he will join these circles as a thirteenth speaker. Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office responsible has drawn up a single list in which Members of the Co-Population Group will alternate to the Members of the House in order to maintain the pro rata­tion of the parliamentary power of the parties. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups may, if they so wish, be involved, as laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The speech of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mitsotakis, and the Chief of the Officerial Representation and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Radical Left coalition Mr. Tsipras can last for up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups, namely Mr. Katrinis Koutsoubas, Mr. Varoufakis and Mr. Velopoulos. The Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the State Secretarys will have the floor for ten minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives are entitled to start for twelve minutes, to answer for six and to quantify for three minutes. If a President-in-Office speaks first, the Parliamentary spokesman will be confined to the time of dentology and tritology at six and three minutes respectively. In accordance with Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I stress that the number of interventions by parliamentary representatives is not unlimited. It is three per day - i.e. protology, dentology, tritology - and of course it is not renewed in the event of a change of parliamentary representatives. Also, the respect of speaking time - I want to pay attention - by Members, ministers, representatives with an exception, as we all understand, to the relative tolerance of the speeches of the Heads of Parliament, is a prerequisite for speaking as much as possible of the Members registered. At the same time, in order to achieve this, the meetings of all three days will last as long as possible, as I will describe below. Time is essential, and we need to help, because the number of speakers, as the parliamentary groups have said, is two hundred. It is the maximum number of speakers who have been seeking to speak, even at a five-day meeting on the budget. As you can see, in a meeting that is actually two and a half days, like this one, half days, it is not possible to achieve and it makes sense to make three and four minutes to each. In such a debate, which is limited to Friday, Saturday and Sunday, it is impossible to get rid of the list. At least, however, with regard to time, they can speak as much as possible. It is estimated that if time is respected, they will be able to speak perhaps a hundred forty colleagues by late Sunday night. We cannot take it on Monday or Tuesday, it is a constitutional issue. The maximum number of attendances we have at the same time decided at the Conference of 13 January that they are 100 Members. You know the proportions, we have to keep them for the well-known reasons. The debate, pursuant to Rule 142(4) of the Rules of Procedure, ends no later than the 12th night of the third day following the start of the debate. Last the Prime Minister will speak. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups are used to speak on the last day in reverse order - in reverse - of the power of the parties from the last elections - without this being binding. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will take place electronically in accordance with Rule 142(4) and (5) of the Rules of Procedure, in conjunction with Rule 141(3), 72 and 72A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Members will be invited to vote with the electronic system per 100 in alphabetical order as follows, with a reasonable time among the hundreds. The first hundred begins from the “Abedelas Apostleos” to “Callianos John”. Around 9 a.m. will start on Sunday night. The second hundred begins from the name "Kallonnis Stavros" to "Moraitis Thanos", after a quarter and the third hundred, the latter starts from the name "Nicolakopoulos Andreas" to "Psychogios Georgios" at 21:30. Members may also vote in letters to be sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, which will also be taken into account. The relevant decision on the motion of censure is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. by a hundred and fifty plus one votes, as laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. As far as possible to speak and with strict compliance with time is concerned, today's sitting will be closed at approximately 2.00 p.m. after midnight. The second Saturday meeting will begin earlier than we said, namely not at 10:00, but at 9:00 pm Saturday morning and will be completed also at approximately 2.00 pm after midnight on Saturday. Sunday's third meeting will also begin at 9:00 p.m. and will be completed at 21:00 p.m. on Sunday evening, to begin the voting process and then the counting process. Any changes in the order of subscribers should be made in exceptional cases by means of a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the need for mutual change. This is the process that we decided on at the Conference and brought about by the changes in the lengthening of time, due to the large number of registered persons. Are we all right about this way?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Chakaloto, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, you have often said how important it is to speak as many Members as possible. We all know how important the motion of censure is. So we do not understand why a tradition must be changed, which I remember in the budget, but at similar times, when we voted on the last day around 23.30'-24.00'. Why would those two hours be gone? Someone who's lost his three-day day, for example, won't earn much time if the process from 21.00 p.m. goes to 24.00 p.m. This is a top moment, and we think, like you, that we need to speak as many Members as possible. If you don't want the coroner to go by 24.00, let's vote at 23.30. If the procedure begins at 23:30, I think we will still have two and a half hours in which the Members of Parliament can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Chakaloto, I realized that you want us to save another hour and a half. However, the voting procedure is also followed by the counting procedure which also has its time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u8	This is a top parliamentary procedure, and nobody really expected there to be so much participation by all my fellow Members. So I think it would be really useful and appropriate if we could get as many colleagues as possible, to get rid of the opportunity given by the Rules of Procedure and to take the procedure by 24.00 p.m. on Sunday evening. Please look at it and make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u9	I don't have a problem with 24.00. Here we go at 2:00! I just want to have a comfort for the vote and the count. All right, well, we'll take it to 22:00. But as they let me know, we need an hour to count. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait a minute, ladies and gentlemen. We are on Friday, where we have given more hours and will give as many hours as possible and Sunday. I want to have a reassurance from the Services that it'll all be over at 24:00. That's typical. We'll keep what makes it easier for us to have completed at 24.00 hours. Now, if it's 22.00, whether it's 22.30' or around 23.00', it's clear that it's going after 21.00'. Don't worry. It will go after 21.00, as far as possible, so that the vote can be completed smoothly. We're not going to do that now. So we will take it as late as we can Sunday so that we can leave the time left to make the vote and the count comfortable. We'll see about it at the time. That's the suggestion. I understand that we agree on this proposal, but I insist on something that is more important than whether we will finish at 21.00 hours or at 22.00 hours. The most important thing, then, is to keep track of the times, because if time is not respected, everyone who violates the time will stop the next ones. Therefore, we begin with the good example that MP I, Mr. Janakopoulos, will give, for 15 minutes, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, before we begin, on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, I think we should ask for a personal and sincere apologies from Mr Mitsotakis, because we are ruining him on three days, and we are ruining him another day. Unfortunately, he has that for Mr. Mitsotakis... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I see the frustration of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is fast! It's exactly what we've been waiting for. Another damaged three days for the Prime Minister, another three-day standby that breaks down for the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, then. Unfortunately, this is democracy, even for the Louis, ladies and gentlemen of the League! In any case, I think Mr Mitsotakis will have plenty of time to make up for the motion of censure. This motion of censure is tabled by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and President of Alexis Tsipras, knowing exactly his responsibility for the citizens, but also in absolute coordination with the popular feeling, in coordination and in correspondence with what they experience, with what the citizens feel at every corner of Greece, in coordination with the "no more". It goes no further with thousands of people dead from pandemic, it goes no further with the collapse of the ESS, with the accuracy that scans the people's households and plunders the income of workers, with the institutional decline, with corruption, with the undermining of democracy, but also with the moral decline of state functions. It's no longer about authoritarianism. The government has failed strategically in every field it was called upon to manage. It's an urgent social need to leave, leave now! These days we are living in the debris of the state of service. The Government, Mr. Mitsotakis, who is missing from last Friday, his staff, did not only manage a pre-indicated and in any case, as you claimed, unprecedented weather, not only disappeared, not only did they not admit and recognize errors, oligopolistics and inertia, but they try to load responsibility on anyone other than themselves, such as the Attica Road, on the citizens, on the National Meteorological Service, which came out and explored you properly by saying that bad weather had been predicted until now, something that the New Democracy MP himself acknowledged, Mr. Callianos, said that 'I am not a poster to the government'. So, in self-government, in your own self-government even if you are hanging them in the handkerchiefs at the first opportunity, as soon as this proves necessary to save yourself, but above all to save Mr Mitsotakis, you are ready to charge responsibilities to anyone and anywhere, as long as Kyriakos Mitsotakis does not enter the "kate" in the "cadar" of Athens, in the same center of Athens, in the hospitals that collapsed and which were excluded, for example in the "Save TV channels" in the Mediterranean, in the border of the Municipality of Athenians, which have been sick and nursing staff for twenty hours even after having been devastated and which have not been excluded, as in the "Savestiture" in the Mediterranean, at the border of the Municipality of Athenians, who have not been able to live for hundreds of hundreds of days, after which have not been built and which have not been able to live in the five centuries since. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the ruins of the state of service. After "Medea", after the catastrophic fires of summer, after the floods of autumn, another episode in the sirial of the abandonment and reaping of citizens and public structures would expect the elementary recognition of errors, someone would expect sanctions, someone would expect political responsibility. But this is an unknown word for Mr. Mitsotakis, the otherwise popular one, which last year, you remember, after the "Medea" he said he has made, he says, a multi-level governance, where everyone knows where he starts and where his responsibility ends and is accounted for accordingly. This is what Mr Mitsotakis said after Mr Mitsotakis. And who answered today? Has Mr. Stylianides reasoned, the gold transcription? Has Mr. Skurchos reasoned for the Attica Road fiasco? Has Mr. Screkas reasoned for the power cut in thousands of households? Has Mr. Theodorikos been quoted here as Minister of the Interior, who first appears after a week? Mr. Karamanlis for the transports, for the broken trains? This is precisely the demobilization of the state, its transformation into final chaos. But along with the collapse of the state of service, we have the restoration, the political and moral restoration of Mr. Gerapetiti, the inspiration of the state of service. Because in recent days, along with the collapse of this creation, which has proved to be a shell without any content at all, it is evolving in front of our eyes, ladies and gentlemen, another suspicious and dark story that reveals the depth of the scourge, corruption and the moral decline that now characterises the whole of government. History of conversations, transactions, trades and extortion, the history of the relationship between the Professor and Mr. Furtiotis. And we have come to the conclusion that it is precisely a feature of the decline that Mr Mitsotakis' right hand is today in the hands of Mr Furtiotis. In fact, if I were you, I would be ashamed of the fact that the Greek Government, the Government of the Hellenic Republic, has given you the right to blackmail it by a alleged journalist, as the press status is late for Mr Furtiotis, who has other qualities in the past. And now Mr. Gerapetritis is made by an inspiring inspiring state the symbol of corruption, institutional degeneration and collapse. This is the treaty you are in. Unfortunately, these are not the only ones and may not be the most serious ones. Because all this is unfolding on the background of the government's strategic failure in the management of the pandemic, but also in the management of the accuracy wave. All of this is done while the coronary continues to reap, causing a hundred deaths per day, while the ESS collapses, while the schools close one after another, despite the tragic and criminal protocol of 50%+1, which Mrs Kerameros has established, with one in four of the four who are currently in difficulty to be a student or student, while the nursing and medical staff have now exceeded the limits of exhaustion. And we have reached the tragic point, the sad point, which will continue to be repeated to you, Greece has twice as many dead per million people as the average of the European Union. Do you understand that? Twice the number of dead. And one wonders who will answer for this, for this ultimate strategic failure in the management of the pandemic, for the fact that as the Tsiodra-Lytra study, which Mr. Mitsotakis had not seen, was created, but after that, it was not seen and, anyway, all this mess was created that is exactly like the final mess we've been living in these days. It could have saved at least half of these twenty-three thousand lost people if you had supported the national health system. And instead of political responsibility, you continue to say: 'We're done with the pandemic', 'We're going through the last mile', 'Do a little more patience for another three weeks'. Three weeks ago, Mrs. Gaga told us that in three weeks, we'll be done with the pandemic again, and today we'll be mourning again a hundred dead. Yesterday we had a hundred thirteen. You have declared the end of the pandemic five times and the coronary still reaps. And all this is not random nor is it simply a result of incapacity and oligopoly in this case. It's the result of a strategic choice. You don't want to support the HR, you don't believe it. You don't want to support it because it's not your idea. You do not want a strong public hospital, as you do not want a public school, as you do not want a public university, as you do not want public transport, as you do not want a public road network, as you do not want public undertakings in electricity or water. There's no public goods for you. There are only fields of profit for you. This is exactly what forms the core of your ideological placement, which failed as an idea, as a concept, as a model, as a policy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we saw that both crisis management and pandemic and the economy will continue to fail. It is a failure of ideas that we are currently experiencing the tragic consequences and effects of it. Because today the accuracy, ladies and gentlemen, is sweeping when the income of the households in the working class of small and medium-sized enterprises is being looted. And listen to a lead that saw the light of publicity last week. Do you know that the average wage has lost 13.7% of his purchasing power during the accuracy period? Do you know what that means? Do you know what this means to a people's household? Do you know what this means to a self-employed person, to lose 13.7% of his purchasing power, and to celebrate that the Greek economy is supposedly recovering, that everything is going well, that we are going to lead to days of prosperity? And you know what that means to be 13.7% on average wages for a man who's paid the minimum wage? What is the reduction in the purchasing power of people rewarding the minimum wage? Much, much bigger. It can also touch 20%, and 25%. This is the treaty currently in existence in the Greek economy, in households, in workers, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in self-employed persons. But instead of recognizing it, you are once again referring to the question of raising the minimum wage to the bells. But now it is imperative that we tackle the wave of accuracy, that the minimum wage be raised, now, at EUR 800. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I remind you, Mr Staikora, that Greece is the only country in Europe where the minimum wage in 2022 is lower than it was in 2010. This is the Treaty of the Greek economy, this is the situation in which the workers live today, and you insist, with communication terminology, that in future you continue to refer to the increase in minimum wages, after of course the mockery of 2% and 13 euros, which are not enough for even a living. At the same time we have the third most expensive electricity in Europe. And what are you doing? Instead of interfering with PPC's pricing policy, instead of lowering the current prices to help people's households, you move on to privatization, another profit field for some, some funds, which you know and which will come to take advantage of a political choice that has no cohesion strategy beyond favouring your friends. I could talk about your refusal to reduce excise duties, which would be exactly the only one or one of the main solutions to deal with the scale of accuracy, but I do not currently have time. I want to say a few things down. So I am not just talking about incompetence, but about strategic failure. We are committed to your ideas. You need to leave for them and for many others, ladies and gentlemen. For the Pecha List. For the vengeful persecution of journalists: Vaxvanis, Papadakou, Giannopoulos yesterday. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] For direct assignments. For opacity and widespread corruption. And we know, very well, that as long as the regime is on track, it will harden its attitude to society, to the citizens, to the workers, to the small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a good thing that the whole democratic opposition is voting in favour of the motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. But I would also like to refer to the KINAL colleagues, with absolute openness and openness. Do you not recognise that there is a contradiction in your position on the one hand to vote in favour, to say 'yes' in the motion of censure, and on the other hand to say 'no' to the demand that elections be held? Why not, in both cases the question is the same: do you want Mr Mitsotakis to remain in the country's governance? You cannot answer 'yes' and the other 'no'. You can't step on two boats. Here it is necessary to take a political position, I say again, because the question is the same. Unless at the back of the mind some - and I am not talking about you - there is another scenario, equivalent to the scenarios that the country lived in 2011 with the government of Papademos, that is to say, to create a new government by bypassing the popular mandate from this House. All this needs to be cleared up, because it results from the very contradictions of your speech. But the Greek people are aware that the only solution at the moment is to bring the people's verdict and to create a large democratic, left-wing, progressive majority with SYRIZA and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to support the ESS, to save lives, to strengthen the wages and income of workers, to control the accuracy, to reconstruct the state after the ultimate nightmare of Mr.Gerapitris and Mr.Mitsotakis, to restore the institutional balance and transparency, to restore democracy at last. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why I call on all colleagues and colleagues, the whole House, to vote in favour of the motion of censure by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos. I now call on the Members who signed the motion of censure and precede Mrs Mariliza Xenokopoulos for her own 15 minutes and, as Mr Janakopoulos has done, to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days the ending state of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis and his government had completely collapsed from a bad weather that had already been known many days ago and for which all scientists had warned. We have heard the great assurances of the Mitsotakis Government that there is a bad weather plan, which was euphemistically and the name 'Elpida', that there is full operational preparedness, etc. We have even seen snowmobiles parade on the eve of bad weather to state precisely the great readiness of the state mechanism and the region. Literally, all these great reassurances of Mitsotakis Government were buried in the snows of "Eplida" and so thousands of fellow citizens passed an endless suffering for days, thousands of drivers were enclaved with their vehicles on Attica Street and on all the other main roads of the lekanopet and Attica, in Marathon, Katechaki, Kifissia. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] But of course the government was only talking about the Attica Street. For the rest, he wasn't responsible, and he didn't report. These thousands of people were enclaved at risk for their health, possibly even at risk for death, when of course in the ice was over twelve and fifteen hours. I have also known who was trapped and sent desperate messages and most of them were forced, on foot, at night in the snow, to abandon their vehicles, without any information, no support, not even a bottle of water. Thousands of households, over two hundred thousand households throughout Attica, had no power for days. Until today there are hundreds of more households, especially in northern Athens and Eastern Attica, which have not yet restored the damage to electricity, with what this does, of course, involve within this brutality. And Mr. Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister, gone missing. Most of the co-responsible ministers are also missing. In an attempt to justify unjustified work, the government spokesman came out on Monday and told us that civil protection has been upgraded. "And what should we do? The government has fallen out in time.' Because it's the meteorologists who fell out in time. And we also saw this press conference of the embarrassment of Mr Stylianides and some other government officials on Monday afternoon, which confirmed that the problem is solved and at a time when vehicles are being locked off from Attica. That's what we've lived for. And when the unprecedented Prime Minister, under the indignation of the world's great - the government press has still come to most critically, which does not have a precedent in the two and a half years of New Democracy's governance, and the media-friendly government - Mr. Mitsotakis was presented and asked for a pretext for 'I'm sorry'. Of course, even this 'apologies' - which, of course, is not political responsibility, because political responsibility means taking responsibility for itself and the government and giving up those who have an obligation, who have responsibilities and responsibilities by the government - was only for those who were in the Attica Street. It wasn't for the thousands of other incarcerated, afflicted and excluded fellow citizens. Of course, this was done in a certain way, according to the dear method of the government and the Prime Minister, by transferring responsibility. Because it is never the irresponsible Prime Minister and the irresponsible government of Mitsotakis. It is the National Meteorological Service, it is the private individuals - who certainly also have a large share of responsibility, but there is a government and a state that runs, coordinates, has a responsibility to deal with these phenomena and disasters and crises - and, finally, to blame - some people, even your MPs - even the citizens themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the glass of wrath and indignation has unfolded. It was the last drop by a government which, with its policies, has affected the social majority, is constantly undermining the social state, constantly comes to expose our country abroad, from a government that has been with its neoliberal policies for two and a half years, its choices and its shortcomings, has reached society in despair and a dead end. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance is an act of responsibility. It is an act that gives a creative way out, a democratic way out of this indignation and despair of the world, in this critical mood and questioning the people for what they live and endure. It is an act of responsibility that a motion of censure should be made to a government which systematically carries out every policy it takes and any measure it takes comes to serve in particular, large, strong private interests, the few, at the expense of the many, at the expense of the majority. It is a government that has left with its choices uncontrolled pandemic and actually applies the immunity of the herd. My colleague, Dimitris Janakopoulos, mentioned before the sad record that our country has had in recent years in terms of the number of deaths per million people. It is a government that refuses to support the ESS and make the necessary recruitments of medical and nursing personnel. It is a government that does not support the ITH and lets regional hospitals collapse, as the Tsiodra-Lytra report revealed, even though Mr Mitsotakis said that there is no and he does not know it. It is a government, which refuses to prescribe free of charge from the insurance funds, as regards molecular tests in a period of exacerbation of the "Omicon" mutation, where literally the middle family, workers who constantly see their wages shrink, had to be imposed further to perform diagnostic tests from their pocket during the holiday season. It is a government that opened schools without new measures, without new protocols, while we have in these fifteen days over forty thousand positive cases for pupils and teachers, and indeed from cases, ladies and gentlemen of the government, which are recorded daily, one out of three is children. That's the reality. And you are the government that, after pressure from social indignation, after pressure from our own and an amendment we have tabled, you have come to introduce a special permit, which is self-evident, that is to say that it is possible for the working parents to take care of their children who are suffering from a reduction in their share. This is your idea of dealing with the pandemic and social crisis, even in the elementary ones. You are a government that consistently promotes the deregulation of work on the pretext of pandemic. With the Hatzidakis law you have come and promote cheap and flexible work. You have destroyed the eighth hour, you reduce wages and at the same time impose two-hour unpaid work without pay. You have made redundancies uncontrolled, you have destroyed every concept of collective bargaining and you have abolished the elementary and fundamentally guaranteed by the Constitution, but above all by the democratic and social struggles of our people trade union and social rights. You are a government that has left small and medium-sized, professional, farmers in their luck, without any support, without any access to liquidity, Minister of Finance. You also exclude them from the programs of the Recovery and Resilience Fund. This is your perception of the real economy in a time of crisis and the time when they have the neck nipple from private debt and from the electricity tariffs, which literally force them to not be able to cope with and support their businesses. Because, above all, you are, of course, a government of the free economy, as you say, a neoliberal government which does not intervene in order to deal with this enormous exacerbation of accuracy in order to deal with the energy crisis. And you constantly call on me and say, "But what do you want us to do? There is the international crisis both in pandemic and in terms of the energy crisis and in terms of accuracy." But governments are judged, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, even when there are international crises in which choices they make and comparison is catalytic with other governments in Europe and the choices they have made. You refuse to take measures in fact, you refuse to make the necessary increase, which we have proposed, of EUR 800 at the minimum wage and you refer to some alleged growth in May in order to create expectations and hopes in the world, and now the world suffers, now wages cannot be met for the minimum wage in the family, now the world is anxious to be able to survive. You are, of course, the one where neither a reduction in VAT on food goes any further, nor a reduction in the excise duty on fuel, despite the fact that too many other countries in Europe have done so, and the European Commission allows you to do so, you are the government which, in the middle of an energy crisis, decided to make progress in privatising the TENE and PPC, which is the main pillars in our country's energy planning and energy policy, because you do not want to intervene either in energy tariffs or, of course, impose a reduction in electricity tariffs in order to affect downwards and private providers in energy and competition. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You are a government which qualifies the state under the pretext of the state of staff, develop customer relations and, on the basis of pandemic, make a pile of unacceptable awards to various public interests. You are a government that exposes the country internationally, comes and divides the country, as you violate democratic principles of fundamental, democratic rights. It is a government for which, at the moment, the break-up has also reached the international media about the impoverishment of journalists, intimidation and persecution of journalists. Today the newspaper 'LE MONDE' has a comprehensive report on the question submitted by SYRIZA MEPs - a Progressive Alliance in the European Parliament for the persecution of journalists in Greece, for Costas Vaxevanis, Gianna Papadakou and Mr Giannopoulos. This is the reality of your conception of democracy and institutions. Of course, Dimitris Janakopoulos mentioned before the situation. Mr Brutsis is here, who has had the courage to speak as a former Minister of Labour on the unacceptable invasion made by Mr Furtiotis on his service to the Ministry of Labour in order to get us to be deeply involved in institutional matters, when he is in fact blackmailing a public minister of State. You are a government, ladies and gentlemen of Mitsotakis Government, which is harmful both to the place and to the Greek society. You're a government that has to go. That is the people's demand and demand. In democracy, ladies and gentlemen, in times of crisis, there are no dead ends. Because you as a government are part of the crisis with your neoliberal policies and your perceptions. In fact, you feed back and multiply the crisis and its consequences that Greek society lives in. And that is the answer to the question 'why are you talking about applying the polls right now while we are living such a multiple crisis?' Just so we can deal with the multiple health, economic and social crisis. Because the people are saving, ladies and gentlemen. It's not saved, as Nikos Kazantzakis said. That is why we have tabled a motion of censure on the Mitsotakis Government. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We say there is another way and another policy. The people will give way to a strong progressive majority with SYRIZA, a Progressive Alliance and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, a progressive strong governance that will finally bring out, prospects and hope to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u15	For a while, I imagine, you want the floor, because we're in the circle process. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u16	Not for two minutes, Mr. President. I apologise first of all to the Members who have interrupted the procedure. I would like to inform the National Representation - and I am taking the opportunity and the presence of the Chief of Police Representation because I would like his opinion - that we asked as a Group of the Change Movement that we should be given, as usual, a parliamentary room for the parliamentary group's meeting on Sunday, as was the case a day before when the House had been given the session of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which was finally not. But he was granted, I am amazed that we are being informed, at least orally, by the President of Parliament - I hope that this will change the course - that the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, is not being given to us. A party represented in the Greek Parliament is not allowed to hold a parliamentary group meeting. And I would like to hear from the representatives of the parties, Mr President, whether or not they agree to this, at least, anti-parliamentary practice which the Bureau of Parliament is trying today to introduce into parliamentary customs and customs. We have tabled a document, as all parties do in all these procedures. I can submit it to the Minutes. I expect to hear all the representatives of Parliament's wings as to whether they agree with this unfortunate first decision of the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u17	I wanted to take the floor beforehand. We're out of procedure now, but it's a matter that would once be solved. In short, Mr Androulakis, President of the Change Movement, asked for the parliamentary group to be convened at noon on Sunday. At the same time, i.e., which, as a presumption, begins, the reverse process of talks by parties' leaders. There is one point we need to resolve, the matter of the fact that the President of the Change Movement does not participate in Parliament. When SYRIZA asked to be a parliamentary group yesterday, he asked for it at a time when Parliament was not meeting, the plenary. In other words, he asked for it earlier than the start of the discussion of the draft development law. We are discussing the top parliamentary control procedure in the presence of the political leaders, the Government and all parties. I believe that the simultaneous procedure for the assembly of a parliamentary group is problematic for the gravity of the sitting that we started a moment ago. This practice must be discussed at the Conference of Presidents because, obviously, it is not an application for tomorrow, but it will be something that will be done regularly, given this reality. I proposed that we discuss this at the Conference of Presidents and not on a case-by-case basis. I gave the budget debate this leave. It was the first time that Mr Androulakis, the new leader of KINAL, would speak to the parliamentary group. But I cannot handle this issue alone, and I said that we will decide at the Conference of Presidents. It's a top parliamentary procedure. Imagine one or another party at the same time making a parliamentary group. As you may know, the Parliamentary Channel never passes a parliamentary group which is even being held outside the House at the time of plenary sitting, how much more so in the top parliamentary control process. I thought this would be solved in all cases and not every time I would be invited to make an exception or give an answer. That is why I said that on Sunday at noon the KINAL Parliamentary Group could not meet within Parliament at the time when the reverse process of parties' Heads of State or Government begins. I don't want to sneeze, I don't want to underestimate. That's not my character either. I would like to preserve a top parliamentary procedure, the one most important, than, at the same time, various political events are taking place in the House. Obviously I have no reason to speak when something is done outside Parliament. But that is not what we will decide now. I therefore asked that this sitting should not be held for the reason that we have this topical procedure and I will bring the matter to the next Conference of Presidents. That was the conversation I had. I understand that Mr Androulakis was not happy. I sincerely dissatisfied him with this attitude, but I cannot make such decisions, while Parliament has such a topical process. Mostly, it cannot be solved on a case-by-case basis. We'll solve it once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u19	You're welcome. But that's not what we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u20	Firstly, the request was made, as usual, by the Secretary of Parliament, Mrs Liikanen. Orally from your partner, as usual again, there was a positive response. I do not know what went through and suddenly, orally again, we are told that starting from this top-level procedure, it is forbidden for parties that have parliamentary representation to hold parliamentary groups within Parliament. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u21	At the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u22	If you wish, Mr President, to do so, you could, for reasons of principle, say what you propose from now on, after this meeting, at the Conference of Presidents. In addition, Mr President, there is no question that you refer this to the Conference of Presidents to decide on your own day in plenary that this will be the case. Either you respect the Conference of Presidents, you put it at the Conference and the Conference decides that 'it will not be allowed at the same time to become parliamentary groups' or in the House we have a male authority. This should be clarified. I would ask that all parties take a stand on a matter of democracy and self-evident right of a parliamentary party to act and operate within Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u23	All parties will be placed because the debate is already beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u25	No, Mr. Chakaloto, because then we'll have more.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u26	To help me, I need the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u27	All parties will speak, Mr. Chakaloto. They can be placed. Mr. Ioannis Bougas is called in Stepma on behalf of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u28	Is that right? When will they be placed?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u29	The parties will be placed. [[Noise-protests from the wing of the Change Movement]] Mr. Catarini, neither a man's authority as you know is, nor anything. What you are asking to do tomorrow, for the first time, has been in the budget. What you are asking to do tomorrow is done in the budget. Now we're moving on... [[Protests from the wing of the Change Movement]] It's a matter, I recognize it. We will resolve this, but we will not solve it at the expense of such top Parliament's conductors. The parties will talk. They'll talk, they'll be represented. There will be a series of Members and parliamentarians will speak. We will not change the course of the debate. Come on, Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the motion of censure, SYRIZA asks Parliament to lift its confidence in the government. Under the Constitution, the motion of censure is a mechanism for awarding the government's individual and collective political responsibility. It is addressed to the electorate in order to focus public dialogue on specific harmful government acts or omissions capable of leading to elections. The speeches by the first two members of the SYRIZA showed that the proposal under discussion was not addressed to the citizens. The motion of censure is not about society, it does not answer its questions and needs. It's panic and despair movement. It is in two ways: the first concerns exclusively the party of Officerial Response. Mr. Tsipras questioned him himself. They directly blame their Chief for undemocratic and selfish behavior. This, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is a motion of censure. He is abandoned by his voters, as confirmed by all the polls. Citizens see the Chief of Staff in despair every day. As SYRIZA's characteristics fad out as a party of power, it resorts to destruction and psalmology and is becoming increasingly politically marginalized. The second reason for putting forward the proposal is that of the other parties in opposition. Mr. Tsipras, seeing his account of progressive governance that he tends to evolve into another delusion and fiasco, attempts to rally the left-wing opposition government, especially the KINAL, which his new leader seems to question the hegemony of Tsipras in the field of the Left. The aim is, of course, to give the visual impression that there is a so-called left-hand front that can be an alternative proposal of power. Ladies and gentlemen, if the proposal was accepted, the lifting of Parliament's confidence, since it is not possible to form a government under Articles 38 and 37 of the Constitution, would follow the dissolution of the House and the call for elections. And here are the serious questions that need to be answered from the outset, primarily by the new President and the Members of KINAL: Since, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, as you say it is no time for elections, how do you vote in favour of the motion of censure, which inevitably leads to elections? How do you explain this blatant logic and institutional contradiction? Then to SYRIZA, KINAL and the other opposition parties that will vote for the proposal, if no self-reliance of the New Democracy arises, do you have a proposal and a plan for cooperation between you to govern your place or plan is to lead Greece to chaos? It is clear that SYRIZA is now manipulated in his policy from polling. Reduction of the difference from KINAAL led Mr. Tsipras to request elections. Mr Androylakis and Mr Androylakis are calling for the second place and for the front chair on the left today in the motion of censure. In a critical period for our society, citizens, instead of constructive proposals, see SYRIZA resort to communication management of its own internal problems. The Government and the Members of the New Democracy are here to talk about all the matter, to look at our own commitments and to explain to the citizens what we are going to do by the next elections. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy have gained citizens' confidence, because we have been consistent with all our commitments. Whatever we said, we did. And I come now, ladies and gentlemen, to the individual points of the proposal. In the economy: you, SYRIZA colleagues, with your foreign policy, charged the country EUR 100,000,000,000 and overtaxed to the extermination of the middle class. We reduced taxes and insurance contributions and supported businesses and households with 43,000,000 euros in the pandemic. I would like to remind you briefly: HICP reductions and tax rates, reductions in insurance contributions, an increase from 1 October 2021 of the tax for parental benefits and first-grade donations of up to EUR 800,000, a measure that we need to note with emphasis that it relates to and mainly supports our young people. Our prudent and effective economic policy results. Greece recovers more quickly from most European countries the lost time of pandemic on the front of the economy. It gains the confidence of rating houses and international investors. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the past decade. The available income for citizens is increased and a budget space is created for new reductions. We can have the funds needed to support households and businesses for as long as the conditions of the international energy crisis are imposed. On the forefront of the pandemic, the government significantly strengthened the ESS, more than doubled the intensive care units, hired fourteen thousand doctors, nurses and administrative staff, organized in a perfect and exemplary way - which received international credit - the "Freedom" operation, increased health expenditure. In 2022 the EUR 5.30,000, if expenditure on other ministries is included, is EUR 11.70,000 or 6.3% of GDP. All of this and much more, against a low-population situation that, at the most critical time for society, denied any assistance. Instead of aid, SYRIZA strengthened citizens' fear of vaccines. Really, SYRIZA colleagues, how many would have been saved if they had not listened to your incoherence to vaccines and vaccinations? SYRIZA was mocking the European certificate initiative, voted against everything, the mandatory vaccination, the imposition of strict penalties on unvaccinant parents who refuse to send their children to school, the law on the movement of qualified doctors to meet needs in the ESS, the movement of medical staff in the province to meet the needs of hospitals and others. The opposition is investing in destruction, failure and death. We see the next day, we redesign and rebuild the ESS with emphasis on primary health care, but also on the region where there is a greater need. On the issue of civil protection, the interest of the SYRIZA government is seen from the building that was housing civil protection, which did not even meet the basic anti-Semitism requirements. There was no planning to deal with crises, infrastructures and managers, no care to protect the major good in a state of emergency, human life. The results known and tragically, in Mandra and Matti. Your only concern is the communication management and the preservation of your image, which led to a comedian statement of the type "I'm looking to find a mistake, but I don't find" and "what to do with the two grand, you'll spend it", but also to misguided attempts to deceive the citizens of SYRIZA Ministers who allegedly displayed signs of arson by satellites. Mr. Tsipras was hiding. He didn't find the courage to apologize to the citizens. Of course, the difference in morality and perception of power by the Prime Minister. In the face of crises, we do everything possible to protect human life. ‘112’ works. The SYRIZA question is self-evident for us. At the same time we record structural deficiencies and weaknesses leading to failures, errors and shortcomings. There will be immediate changes in order to have crisis management committees bringing all those involved with very clear and clear protocols in the same area, so that there are no discrepancies, delays in decision-making and decommissioning. The AEGEAN programme, with the financing of EUR 1.7 billion over a five-year period, will allow for the implementation of the project. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, SYRIZA's inability to rule on the other hand, on the other hand, unsatisfactory thirst of power, has prompted him to deliberate institutional overthrows. To politically neutralize their opponents, they did not hesitate to hurt them morally. A group headed by the former Deputy Minister of Justice, journalists and judges, who are already under control by justice for heavy crimes, allegedly set up an unprecedented construction to lead indictees of ten politicians. With the archiving of the cases, the construction collapsed. Mr. Tsipras and his party had to isolate the manufacturers and apologize to their victims. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Instead of solitaryity, a tighter hug with the defendants. Instead of apologies, new slanders to her political opponents, new attacks on justice with concentrations intended to bring the free mind of judges, with statements about the voluntary exit of judges and the establishment of a new school of judges, with direct threats that it will be different the second time. In other words, they will not respect the pretexts of controlling the joint power. They would strive to control justice, the press and the broadcasting. They'll bring laws that will relieve sejudices and rebuild bridges with convicted terrorists. Do you really expect people to trust you with this institutional perception? Ladies and gentlemen, citizens realise that they have nothing positive to expect from Civic Opposition. Persistence, institutional irresponsibility, opposition and indifference to citizens' problems characterise Mr Tsipras and his party. The proposal under discussion is an excellent opportunity to address the Greek people, to remind them of what we have done in all areas of government action and, at the same time, to describe and explain what we are planning for the coming years, taking advantage of the credibility we have gained at international level and all available resources for citizens. SYRIZA will receive his answer from the House on Sunday. In the next elections he will get his answer from the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Buga. SYRIZA's main speaker, Mr Panos Skourletis, is now called on the Stepma on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to devote a minute to the issue that has been raised on behalf of KINAL. I think that when there is a good mood we can find a solution that compromises everything. Obviously, every parliamentary group is entitled to have a room with its President, its true President, but at the same time we all know that a solution must be found that does not undermine the debate at the top of the day, namely in the cycle of the intervention of the political leaders, when the KINAAL has full rights like the other political leaders. It is therefore a matter of time. I would suggest that you, colleagues of KINAL, should it be possible to put it a little earlier, so that when you start a circle of Heads of State and give your battle, you and the other powers will be placed on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you took over the government, you said that we would become Europe's model by establishing a Ministry of Civil Protection. Did you make it? Are you still claiming it? After what happened - the consequences of the last situation are still living by our fellow citizens - we are probably Europe's laughter. I don't know if you're putting the cubit too high, but I'm sure you'll pass underneath. On the 21st of the month, while all the meteorologists had warned you at a meeting involving representatives from the prime minister's office, from the CED, from the regions, from Troika, from the EMI, you assured us that the state mechanism is fully prepared. If it wasn't, what would happen? What if he wasn't fully prepared? How do you understand this preparedness? To stay 24-hour citizens without power? Close the main roads? Excluded from the capital hospitals? Can't be the international airport in operation? Is that the readyness? We have to draw conclusions, because it is not enough to make points, first of all, as to the way private individuals are currently managing the national roads and the main motorways. Attica Street is the most expensive road in Europe. I listened the day before yesterday to a scientist who said that in the event of accidents it is one of Europe's most dangerous roads. Proved this with snowfall. So should we rethink that road networks, like many other networks and infrastructures, should go through the management of state bodies? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And can I suggest you something? Why should some of the toll fee not be a resource for social security funds? The same could have been done in the part that you gave to the DEDENE in order to secure money and liquidity for PPC. Why not go to the social security funds and have had a guaranteed permanent resource, but get foreign funds with sure, profit-making funds that have nothing to do with energy management? So we have seen that municipalities need to be effective, there needs to be clarification of their responsibilities, have staff, have machinery, have resources. You've done nothing for all these two and a half years. We have given you provisions that provided for the establishment of a permanent committee of responsibilities for all the new and the earlier bills between the Ministries. I ask you: have you activated or abolished it? Those who have certain machinery are even elementary from the time of the "PHILADIMOS" and drink water in the name of the SYRIZA Government because it dealt with the question of infrastructure in the first degree of self-government with objectivity for all and not for the "family". Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure is not just about the issues of bad weather management. It's about the unacceptable, criminal management you've done on pandemic issues. Break each day's record after another in the number of tubed per million, in the number of deaths per million. You're champions! Take when the gold, when the silver and when the copper medal! Why? Do you know why? Why didn't you do what you had to do for twenty-two months. Your man, Mr. Chiodras, told you. You have huge responsibilities. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So this insecurity is felt by Greek citizens. When you were in the election, what did you promise? Security! What, then, is the safety of the person who wants to go to the hospital at the moment - if the snow can go from the snow to the hospital - when he sees that he has doctors exhausted, doctors who resign because he is unable to withstand working conditions at the moment, because ten thousand less are employed in the health system than when the pandemic started - or is it not? - because they see you creating speculation conditions for the tests that detect the virus. When it comes to the top health issue, you look at how you do business. So, the conclusion is, do you know what it is? That neoliberalism you believe is a priority not health, but a priority for profits. That is why you, in Europe, have taken the forces of vaccinationist nationalism and voted against the lifting of the patent. The same logic is followed here and you are getting ready as soon as the pandemic retreates to present your plan, which will be the further shrinking of the public health system. However, the conclusion is one - and this is a conclusion adopted by the great majority of Greek society - that the public health system must be real public, it wants real support and we cannot leave it to the blind forces of the market. Modification for how you manage matters of accuracy. They will only go bankrupt because they will not be able to pay the electricity bills. The houses will go bankrupt. You're talking about growth. But, as you support it, where does this development lead? Reproduction of a still-born productive model. That is why you see that every unit of development - although we compare it to the huge recession, because we were champions last year, so it is a relative value of these figures - means that the deficits in the country's relations with the outside are widened. So we denounce you and reproach you why you privatise the energy networks, these strategic infrastructures in the country, when they are naturally monopolies, and we have seen what this can mean for the effectiveness of the TEN itself these days, when we know that people are missing, the engineers are missing from the TEN. But you want to give outsourcing. You want to promote indirect privatisation. Here, then, is the effectiveness: Adequate engineers are now missing from PPC, which after 1952 supported the development of the country, and now you are sending it to the tartars. So now you're changing her public character. Form because you left the banks, such as Piraeus Bank, to call working cleaners for thirty years and to say to them: "Work with 190 euros". You, ladies and gentlemen, go work with 190 euros. You guys go with 190 euros a month. These are the results of the Hatzidakis legislation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Motion for a resolution (Doc. A 2-18/88) by Mr Cassidy, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(88) 613 final — Doc. Form because the insured's money is gambled in plans that will cost another memorandum through the privatisation of subsidiary insurance. So, is that the security you promised? So, is this the security that a young man who wants to enter the university and through the special import base, can you channel him as a client to private collegeers? This is the safety of man, who is really afraid to look at his health because he sees that there is no primary health, that there is neither suitable nor sufficient staff, while you, after twenty-two months of pandemic, refuse to put doctors on heavy and unhealthy first-line and health care and refuse to raise wages why do you not believe in the public health system? So, what security can you provide? And when you invite people to sit at his house, he needs to warm up, but if he gets warm, he'll go crazy from the next account. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation requires every political power to be lifted to the extent of its responsibility. The motion of censure, the motion of censure, is in a government that, in the end, only knows how to make a delinquency of every Furtian, all he knows to do is undermine public wealth, all he knows to do is undermine the prospects of the new generation. This reproach is a proposal for a democratic process needed by the place. And they don't have equal distances here. You cannot say yes to the motion of censure, but refuse the logical consequence of the election here and now. So go away, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It doesn't work anymore. Destroy the place. We understand you. Leave the candy in relation to SYRIZA. Because, you know, it's very easy to reverse this toxic logic of tumbling that we heard just now when you were talking about Matti and Mandra. Because then the comparison I understand is catalytic. So don't fall to these levels. Take your political responsibility. If you have any political responsibility, you are holding elections here and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. The President of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, is now being called to Stepma for his own ten-minute speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel bad to start with the issue raised by the President of Parliament's initiative. It is a pity that the President of Parliament, who has confessed that we have not become accustomed to such practices, has decided outspokenly to show the government's anxiety over the course of political developments in trying to undermine the process that the President of the Change Movement has demonstrated as a key political factor in the course of the next political developments. Because that is the political substance of the decision, which shows how much self-sufficiency, arrogance and arrogance the government displays in dealing with similar issues are. What other explanation can I give to the President of Parliament's initiative to ban the parliamentary group's meeting on a fundamental function of the constitution, which is the self-evident right of each parliamentary group to meet within Parliament? Mr President of Parliament, we have tabled a proposal to meet at 8 a.m. If you want to transfer the plenary to 8.00, tell us to go to 7.00' or 6.00'. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are two separate issues. There is the political issue of the country, which is huge, and there are rules of the game in accordance with the foundations of our democracy. It's two separate things. The political issue of the country took enormous proportions when a planned weather, a snowy snow, literally dissolved an unscheduled and incompetent government. This is the political issue, that this is an unscheduled and incompetent government which, instead of dealing in a fair and effective way with the repeated crises that the country has been experiencing for a long time, exacerbates them and multiplys them. The infamous state, the pride and the central account of the Prime Minister, the quintuosia of the modern and effective nature of governance, after it has failed with the fires and pandemics, has today expired under the snow. Consider that there has not only been a whole reshaping to ensure that an effective civil protection structure is better organised. Just think about that. Political responsibility is heavy, and this time it cannot be shared in self-government, nor in public bodies, and much more in the noble refuge of the ministers, the afflicted for hours and days. It is wholly owned by the Prime Minister and his Government. An unscheduled and incompetent government in the management of the pandemic, with an ESS that collapses helplessly under the weight of cases, with doctors, nurses and patients standing in despair and the country living every day with a hundred deaths. An unscheduled and incomprehensible government to manage the economic crisis, the accuracy and inflation that consumes incomes, the crisis in the market that is plagued by small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, in a scorched that makes the poor increasingly poor and richer. An unscheduled and incomprehensible government to understand in practice - because in the words of the 'Koreans' - what the changes in our time mean and what changes are needed for the climate crisis, the ecological reorientation of production, the adaptation of education to the cognitive society, in order to give this people a future and hope that in the next few years it will be better and better lives. An unscheduled and incomplete government to change the impasse productive and developmental model, which is unable to exploit the abundant resources available to the country, which shares investment at once, which dehydrates every process of democratic, development and decentralised planning, which distributes inaccurate and selective benefits without any real impact. Where are the most famous structural changes, your reform odor? Where is the grand proclamation that the country is changing page, changing image? The image of Athens today is the country you vision to change? Following that, ladies and gentlemen, is it ever possible for a truly progressive party to vote in favour of this government or even to close its eyes by choosing not to vote against it? Of course not. Our vote is self-evident and it is a democratic right and a requirement for the people who today live under the atmosphere of despair. The Prime Minister attempted to criticise the new leader of our resignation by condescendingly saying: "I haven't heard him speak yet." Obviously he has not heard him speak, he has opposed him to solutions, to exploit his European experience, to respond to every great demand that is emerging, not only theoretically and in the long term, but also modern and practical. Honestly, I wonder about the seriousness of the Prime Minister, because he has never heard of what any other model of governance means, modern, decentralised, democratic, which we have proposed against the authoritarianism of his authority. Because he has never heard of what a democratic development planning means, an ecological production model, a rebuilding of the vertebral column of the economy through small and medium-sized enterprises. Because he did not hear about what institutional reform of democracy means, returning collective negotiations and social organisations to the forefront of a society that must consent to make changes and reforms. Because he has never heard of how the regeneration of the ESS is done and what is required, the proportional distribution of taxes and burdens, the fairer distribution of income and wealth. It's not just that the Prime Minister was listening. It's why you were stubbornly holding through whatever means you had, believing you're ending up with our presence and route. Today, however, something is changing in the 'kings of Denmark' and it is what caused the present process. I now come to the second point concerning political developments and the rules of the game. You ask us: 'Since you are voting against the government, why are you not asking for elections?' Here you are all ostriching, both of us and of us. Has it ever happened in the nearly half-century of the post-multi-population cycle that elections are being provoked by a process of submitting a motion of censure by the opposition? Never. Will they be provoked now? Mr. Tsipras obviously doesn't think so either. We all know that a debate will be held on Sunday evening in the ears of the unhearing. The government will have been voted for by its parliamentary group and will feel that it is assembling its prolongation at the moment by the Chief of Staff. That is the point of today's procedure and the three-day time period that will follow. Everyone knows that we will be witnessing a three-day drama, where there will be conflicting an event that her account fades daily with a party, no matter how screaming, unable to return to the forefront of history. And we all know that the election cycle was opened, without any doubt, at the worst and most dramatic moment for the country. At the worst and most dramatic moment for the country! And, in any case, who would be who the elections today will strengthen him? Do you have any doubts on the basis of the latest developments? But we have, on the one hand, put our party interest on the other, and, on the other, saw, of course, a sense of national responsibility, which is a structural element of the nature of our space and which we have undertaken in critical historical times, at any cost that has been paid for in this historic period. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to hold a responsible opposition. We will continue to propose solutions to the problems of the country. We're going to continue what we started a few months ago. We have no illusion that the adversary of small partitionism that is declining, that the feeder of a overthrow in the establishments in recent years is the Change Movement, is the PASOK. And don't, gentlemen of the government, make the mistake. It is not only SYRIZA who feels it, and the New Democracy that sees progressive citizens - and you know it - who voted for it in the last elections to turn its back on her. So something's changed in the 'Kingdom of Danimarky'. This movement, ladies and gentlemen, which has finally opened up its sails, does not fit, Prime Minister, in the apartment of a building that you are trying to fit. It spreads everywhere. And you should know, in conclusion, and you, Mr. Mitsotakis, and you, Mr. Tsipras: We are not just returning from the past, whose value and the contribution of the Greek people are again recognized, but we come from the future. Keep this in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u35	Thank you to Mr Scandalidis and to keep time, as well as to the previous speakers, which I will ask the ministers for, for whom the Minister for the Protection of Citizens, Mr Takis Theodorikos, starts immediately after that.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, will the rapporteurs not speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u37	It'll be over. Ten minutes he'll talk and he'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, first let the six rapporteurs speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u39	The right thing to do is finish the sixteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u40	It'll be over. Ten minutes he'll talk. It's a good climate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that citizens are seeking from the government, but also from the whole political system, from solving their problems and not from party to party. SYRIZA, on the occasion of the enormous suffering and trial of thousands of citizens a day of unprecedented snowfall and bad weather, made a motion of censure. As far as I can see from the debate, it has not done so to propose something positive to the citizens. It is a hopeless effort to regain politically the Civic Opposition, to cover its very big internal problems and to indulge in an irresponsible catastrophe. A moment ago, from the Step, SYRIZA's spokesman attacked the country's Prime Minister, the "neo-liberal", as he said, and "avoided" on workers' issues. But how do you want to be believed? This government with state intervention in the midst of the pandemic gave 43 billion euros to the economy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He gave EUR 8.5 billion for employees' salaries, which by government decision the companies in which they worked had ceased to work, for their wages and insurance contributions. I am also impressed, as we speak of the latest events, that SYRIZA has made eight announcements about what happened in Attica and in Lefkanopedia and you have not found, gentlemen, the Officerial Response, nor a single word to say about the serious responsibilities of the private company managing the Attica Road, a private company that has received billions of euros from the citizens, a company which unfortunately failed to keep the most decisive road in Lefkanoped, with numerous negative effects on the country's economy and security. Not a word! Why is that? Is that a political narrative of SYRIZA? Is it a party empathy? Whatever it is, it is a challenge for citizens that a private company, which, for the first time, the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is obliged to pay compensation to the citizens, something that this company accepted poorly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you agree with this decision of the Prime Minister or will you tell the citizens again, as you told the firemen in the tragedy in Matti that "What to do with the 2,000 euros, will you waste them if you take them?" Unfortunately for you, and fortunately for the country, you cannot convince anyone. You have no credibility because the anti-immemorial waves of demagogy that brought you to power have been lost to the sea of your government failure. You have not found a word of self-criticism for your big mistakes in the economy, for the heavy overtaxation of society, for the afflicted people in the disasters. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot draw any political benefits from the deterioration that the government can have. Now you have been paid and you are understood by the fear of your electoral shrinkage. It panics you. Remember something. You are at risk of being in the third place in the next elections, whenever they take place. And that is what helps the simple analogue that you voted on. That's how you resorted to this gloomy initiative. ‘His hair choked is caught’. There is no Greek who believes that what the government has not gone well now would have been better for SYRIZA. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is in no way an alibi to the Government of New Democracy. They don't need any excuses. We do not hide the problems, we do not make mistakes and weaknesses, and the Prime Minister of the country first showed this with his statements yesterday. The cubit for this government isn't in SYRIZA's boot. The bar should be in meeting the needs of society and the truth is that in recent bad weather the state mechanism, including the mechanism of self-government, did not respond. That's the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, like all humanity, is being tested by the climate crisis for which global discussion is taking place. So the Prime Minister found this danger right and four and a half months ago created the Ministry of Climate Change and Civil Protection, as the General Secretariat for Civil Protection had earlier upgraded. Of course, it is a new organisational effort. It takes time to deliver, as this ministry has de facto critical, substantive and increased responsibilities to deal with climate change-related crises and, of course, the strong responsibilities for coordinating the entire state mechanism, which is at its disposal when such cases arise. There is, of course, a need for better coordination, and each one of us has an obligation to meet the responsibilities and tasks which arise according to its responsibilities. It is known that the Ministry of Citizen Protection - the old Ministry of Public Order to get together, because Mr. Janakopoulos gave me the portfolio of the Ministry of Interior about an hour ago - it has the political responsibility of the Greek Police. Police fought a very hard battle this weekend, in the context of the overall planning of civil protection, seven thousand police officers were mobilized in incredibly difficult conditions and the officials of EL.AS. The newly established Ministry took part in meetings on how the situation organised by the Minister for Civil Protection would be dealt with. When an exceptional emergency took place on Monday, the Greek Police, outside of the protocol, in consultation with the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Civil Protection, was immediately mobilized, as was the Army. We sent two hundred and thirty NCA police officers, the OPCDs, MAT platoons, the Direct Action to work for a goal together with their fellow soldiers and firefighters, to save all the people who, unfortunately, were caught in such difficult conditions by the concessional company of Attica. All Greeks know that with this effort EL.AS. He rescued two thousand two hundred and two hundred people, in tens, with the unprecedented self-determination and self-determination of the men of the Greek Police, who took children on their back, took third-age people into their arms, walked miles into the snow and, fortunately, we didn't have the worst, there is not a single person who was actually exposed to his life and need to have other kinds of situations. I thank them! They exaggerated themselves, as some of them worked even twenty hours constantly. It is clear that the concessionaire company of the ‘ATTITUTE’ has very heavy responsibilities, as it has confirmed on several occasions that it has the capacity to keep the road open. This, ladies and gentlemen, is very critical. If anyone knew that Attica would close, he should, in essence, make other decisions as to whether or not Athens, Lefkapedio and the economy should be closed on that day. But there was this very clear assurance and the company's confidence that the road will remain open. How, then, could anyone force a road close when the private company assured the exact opposite? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Police in the past two years have made a decisive contribution to the security of the country's borders, public health and social cohesion, implementing almost all the measures against the coronary pandemic. At the same time, the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Greek Police have formulated a strategy of strengthening security throughout the country, which is a central government priority. The message: "Security for everyone, security everywhere" is done. With the release within 2022 Greek Police forces of all kinds, to enhance the presence of the police in the neighborhoods, next to the citizen. With the extensive digitalisation of the Greek Police, where thirty-four agencies take a digital form, so that two thousand policemen can be released in total. With the imminent upgrade of police training, with the aim of creating a modern, human and effective police force. With a bill that we are tabling in this House very soon, our main priority for the next period is the safety of students and teachers at universities. Universities are spaces of knowledge, education, research and freedom, so they must be spaces with absolute security. Tolerance on violence and provoking illegality is over. In the last three months, the Greek Police have intervened in six cases at the University of Athens, the University of Athens and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. The university protection teams are now being trained and schools are preparing their security plans so that they can access a tournament, cameras and additional lighting. These will become reality when OPCWs complete their training in four months and join those universities, where their presence needs to be present. Not at all, because it's obvious that not all universities have a problem. We expect the support of all the political forces in this policy as a self-evident obligation to the Greek family that does everything for the studies of its children. We are numerically and qualitatively strengthening the offices of domestic violence, so that our police have all the knowledge and infrastructure needed to deal with this new form of crime, which knows an outburst in the well-known conditions of the pandemic. We encourage citizens, especially women, to address the police and to strengthen our cooperation with self-government for this purpose. Also, as the movement of vehicles has doubled, as a result of the coronary pandemic, we are launching a new plan to upgrade the design and operational actions of the traffic, making use of the best international practices and new technical means. It's a very difficult battle, but we'll certainly give it away. We need time to pay off, but we are clearly committed to this. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall conclude by saying that the country is undoubtedly at a very decisive moment. While we had started a orbit of a substantial economic recovery with the New Democracy's policy of reducing taxation and insurance contributions, attracting significant investments, modernising and improving social policy, the pandemic, which has in fact been a serious obstacle to moving more rapidly ahead, has unfortunately come. Nevertheless, a number of reforms have taken place in particular in the area of digital policy and the country creates new sustainable prospects. Greek society reforms a realistic feeling of optimism for tomorrow. The vast majority of citizens consider the reforms that this government promotes to be self-evident and that is why it supports them. And it is much better for everyone to join forces, to join with the large social majority of the measure and logic. Let us finally leave to yesterday artificial splits and hate rhetoric, which does not add anything to the Civic Opposition. I am sure that, contrary to today's debate, which has in fact a political controversy, with the initiatives of the Prime Minister and the Government in the next few years, which I hope will also respond positively to, we will move forward with the necessary reforms that Greek society and our country need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, too. Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos is now being called by the circle of speakers on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece for his own intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, on the subject that has arisen, the JRC considers that, once the functioning of the House is not obstructed, it is the right of each party to use other seats of Parliament to meet its parliamentary group. Of course - going into the debate - popular indignation is justified, because with a snowy snow, we have seen very long blockades, trapped people for more than twenty-four hours on the closed roads, whether they were private or public. The Minister, who just came down from Stepa, said that since our private highway, he assured us that the road would remain open, we would obey him. In other words, the State serves the interests of private motorways. In fact, he stressed this: How would we close the road and limit economic activity? Priority is to ensure economic activity and not to protect human life! In addition, we observed enclaved in the privatised 'TRAINOSE' of 'TRAINOSE'. Even today, there are people trapped in their homes, people who are free of current five days later, because public DEDDIE does not have as a priority the restoration of the outdated network, but the interconnection of the RES and the green transition. The government's "excuse" is hypocritical, as is the crocodile tears of the other parties, in particular SYRIZA and KINAL, which identify the problem and focus only on the inadequacy of government management or individual ministers. However, this criticism of a lack of planning does not answer the question, because so many decades - and with all the governments - after earthquakes, after fires, floods or avalanches are destroyed, we are mourning dead people's lives? Because it's a timeless and predetermined crime. Its cause is the system, as a whole, the urban state, which in the name of armoring capitalist profitability, sacrifices the satisfaction of popular needs. It's not the ultimate state. It is the bourgeois state, which is capable and very powerful to support business groups in every way, to launch a complete attack on labour and popular rights, to shield the interests of the ruling class and capital through the forces of repression, violence and terrorism. At the same time, however, it is selectively incompetent and powerless to satisfy people's needs in education, in health, in the face of energy poverty, it is selectively incapable of protecting the lives of the people either from natural disasters, or from the pandemic, a pandemic that is bleak and you are confronting the dead. We have, of course, the criminal management of the government in terms of pandemic, which has turned hospitals into "a disease" hospitals, with huge shortages in infrastructure, particularly in ICUs, but also in particular in human resources, by intensification of health and by almost non-existent primary health care. At the same time, the private health sector is increasing its turnover and profits. This image is not in recent years. It's a timeless image. And the cause is health trade, it is the coexistence of the public and private sectors, which leads to the closure of hospitals which have been closed down by all previous governments, which leads to the attack on health rights. This is a common strategic option. That is why the health systems of very developed and very powerful capitalist economies collapsed with pandemic. All of you - from a government position but also from counter-population - serve this policy. This is why, after the first moment of the pandemic, the KKE had stressed that the people should take the case of protecting public health in their hands, when the other parties said, "we will be accounted for after the pandemic" or you proposed joint acceptance ministers and put back on the implementation of government policy. At the same time, the accuracy is devouring to the poor income of the people, which has been broken by your anti-Fraud laws, which all the parties you have voted for, which have been broken by insurance overturns, which have led to the reduction of pensions, hunger pensions, the policies of marketing health and education that you have implemented, the policies of tax raids on the people. The reasons for the accuracy, of course, are common. It is a 'child' of the system you are defending. It is the policy of liberalisation of the electricity market and the energy transition to the "green" energy, where you have given huge incentives to the predators of the RES with the result of very expensive current, where you have moved to the logic of ligniteification and converted the imported gas as a transition fuel, are the polluter charges to make lignite energy very accurate, it is the energy stock exchange that leads to this accuracy. It is also the policy of privatisation, which, consistently, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, has implemented, which leads to this accuracy. SYRIZA, for example, proceeded with the complete surrender of the PPA to 'COSCO' with the signature of Mr Varoufakis at the time, so that we do not forget ourselves. He proceeded to privatize the Greek Port Authority of Thessaloniki. It went on to privatize the regional airports, as well as the Greek, ADMHE, as well as the Syros. It is support in every way for the needs of business groups. The liquidity of the European Central Bank, in order for firms to have cheap money to move on to their investment projects, has led to an inflation unreasonable for the people who eat people's income. So the medicine for business groups is turned into a pharmacopoeia for the people. It is a cause for the destruction or non-use of wealth producing sources, because the exploitation of high profitability rates for business groups does not ensure for business groups. The government is delusionally cultivating that growth will be for everyone and that there will be dividends for everyone. But he forgets or conceals that, in order for this development to come, there has been a complete frontal attack on the workers who, by exploiting the Memorandum-alternative laws that all governments have passed, you have come to form a mechanism for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force without collectively-structured rights, working, insurance, trade unions, to shield the competitiveness of business groups. It is against this growth of self-employed, traders and craftsmen, because they are crushed by capitalist competition. It is against this development in bio-family farmers who are fighting hard rocks, the competition of business groups supplying them expensive supplies and buying for a piece of bread - if they buy it - agricultural goods as a raw material for their processing. And it's against this capitalist growth in satisfying people's needs. Tourism is the most decisive example. You have celebrated all the parties on the European Union's Development and Competitiveness Fund because - say it - the European Union has made a joint loan for the first time in time, covering that development fund is necessarily accompanied by a pan-European memorandum against the rights of workers and the people. You celebrate the NSRF which, along with the Development Fund, will go ahead with the green and digital transition, i.e. the choices of capital that it gives hundreds of billions of euros to investors for investment and infrastructure, which the people of Europe will be asked to pay. And that is the European Union's policy that, at the forefront of the cost, benefits from infrastructure that serves the needs of capital rather than the people. That is why the concessions - which all the governments served - did not include flooding projects, because they increased costs. That is why these companies are not obliged to have mechanisms and personnel for crises, because they increase costs. But the state of ERGOSE is moving on to new railway infrastructures for caging and non-exiting people, for example in the Aegiale region, because it increases construction costs. So, first priority is construction costs and not human needs. Because it is the very nature of the capitalist company not only of the oligarchs, but also of the capitalist company, which increases the exploitation of the worker, intensification, lowers costs for health and safety measures at work. And from this point of view, you do everything you can to shield the system, because you're afraid of organized class struggle. It is no accident that the minimum wage, which is the SYRIZA's emblematic move, after the government's memorials, is to accept the Brutsis Act. The government must determine the wages and not the class struggle, because you want the wages to be tempted by the individual government to manipulate the labour movement as a tip. That is why you have moved on to circumvent the right to strike - the second emblematic measure - as a government of SYRIZA. And the Government of New Democracy completed it through the effort to transform trade unions fully controlled by the state and employers. You are fighting about growth rates or what aggressive determination you will give to capitalist growth. But you are hiding that this development is barbaric and unjust for the people. Climbing your strategy is the geostrategic upgrade of the ruling class to get the ruling class a piece of the bracelet at the expense of the peoples of the region. You are becoming increasingly involved in Euro-Atlantic imperialist plans. You turn it into a bulb but also at the same time a retaliation magnet. Your criticism has been bad since you accepted these strategic choices. It is a controversy which, however acute it is, attempts to encapsulate popular discontent within the walls of the system. Because the powers of both SYRIZA and the Change Movement are tested as both government and opposition. But close together there are other parties, ordering stars, disposable parties that cultivate delusional ones. They shall reinstate requests tested and bankrupt, such as in terms of participation or cooperativeness. But today you cannot invoke the romance of the first Utopian socialists. Today you know and consciously cultivate delusion. That is why you are useful in the system, because services are useful in the system in trying to damage consciences, questioning radicalisation. But it is hopelessly the effort you do what you can in this way stop the wheel of history. Within the system, within capitalism, there cannot be a philosophical way out for the benefit of the people who satisfy both the needs of capital and the people. Capitalist barbarism is responsible for expanding the lane between the possibilities and the level of satisfaction of the people's needs, for expanding social inequalities. He is responsible for the crises, scepticism and corruption. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] SYRIZA shows the proposal of distrust as the only solution, as a way out of this situation. But this proposal entangles popular indignation and only keeps the people as an observer and only participates in changing the driver of a train moving on the rails of capitalist barbarism. Because saviors are full and bankrupt. And the reformers of our system are over. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Remember what SYRIZA said in 2015, "Europe is changing, hope is coming". And what's come? The third and most barbaric memorial. Some time ago SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Mer25 said: "The world is changing, hope comes" because of the election of Biden. But now reality is quite different.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u44	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u45	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Thank you very much. We call it clear. Only the people can save the people through the expression of solidarity and the organisation of the struggle for full recovery from disasters, for compensation to 100% of all damages, for projects and infrastructures to protect the people. Because today's barbarism is not a one-way street. The answer will be given to the Constitution tomorrow morning by the workers and the municipal authority from Patras, the employees of Attica, the young people and the young people who will fight for measures to protect human life. The JRC is voting against the New Democracy Government as it had done with all previous anti-popular governments. It rejects the policy that on the altar of capitalist profit sacrifices life, health, income, labour rights, as a whole, labour and people's needs. At the same time, we highlight the responsibilities of all the other parties, particularly SYRIZA and KINAL, who agree with this policy and have put their stamps on either from the government's position or from counter-population. We call on the workers, the self-employed, the professionals, the bio-populist farmers, the young and the young people of the people's strata to give their own reproach to their struggles as a whole in anti-grass strategy, capitalist barbarism. We call on them to join the JRC in making the popular indignation of struggle and conflict with the interests of capital and the European Union, with the urban state, to become a force of overthrow. Thank you very much, Mr President, and tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds. Something has been said that is completely untrue. I would like 30 seconds to explain to Mr. Karathanasopoulos that, obviously without knowing it, he lied. Do I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u48	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Karathanasopoulos, in addition to yourself you represent the Communist Party of Greece, which we respect very deeply for the struggles and sacrifices he has given to our country. So I would like to ask you to repack. The first contract with ‘COSCO’ has been signed on 10 August 2015. Mr Varoufakis resigned on 6 July 2015, and he has therefore not signed in any case this obsolete convention, which, to remind those who are listening to us, has transferred 67% of the port, Mr President, EUR 368,8 million. If you're kind, say it. I can't believe you did it intentionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u50	We'll testify to the contract in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u51	On behalf of the Greek Solution Mr. Hetas Konstantinos has the floor. He's the first speaker. There was a priority tolerance and a little more has been maintained. Anyway, as long as you can be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr. Theodorikos, your literaries are deform. Did you write it? Then you're debut. There was no word apologies within your word. It was at least challenging what you said. The world's still out in the bars. You celebrated and applauded for the 43 billion you shared. It is a loan, however, that you did not say that you charged our children and our children with 43 billion. And you didn't tell us, Mr. Theodorikos, how the need for you to give 43 billion with the unnecessary lockdown you've done. I'll see you later. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have been ruling for two and a half years and you have actually achieved something vague, that is to say, to make us think that it was not SYRIZA the worst government that ever went through this country. We had the feeling or certainty that it might really be the worst government. In this incompetence race you have served, you go and get them and pass them, congratulations! It's an incompetence contest! You, you know, think that, under your control of the information, by unequivocally controlling the media in the most shameful way, not respecting the work of journalists, and with the money of the people you score in the media, you will finally manage to make fun of Greek citizens. In the two and a half years, Mr Ministers and colleagues of the New Democracy, who have the wheel of the country in your hands, the country lives a Armageddon. And we can explain what we mean: natural disasters. It is to be hoped that with you in the government, this country has no hope. "Espida" came, a strong snowfall, in fact, for which all meteorologists warned weeks ago, this snowfall came to ridicule what you have finally baptized a state and which has proved to be nothing more than a mechanism of the "Blue Army", which is in complete disintegration. You laughed and you don't know who to blame. Because wherever you turn, right and left, they're all yours, planted yours. Where do you want to shoot her? Wherever you turn your head, you'll find your own man. You found the modern Iphigenia, the Patolis. You've thrown it all over Patolis, and you think with a Patolis you've paid off. Swinging! You know, in a snowfall in 2017 - they are practically and will be filed by the current Prime Minister, I would like to be here to freshen his memory as a Greek Solution, but he left a moment ago - Mr. Mitsotakis had written in 2017: "I cannot understand what political responsibility means without any resignation. Responsibility must be accompanied by action, otherwise it serves only communications purposes, such as the Prime Minister's show on the night of the black Monday," Mr. Mitsotakis wrote on Twitter. Congratulations, Mr. Mitsotakis! We're talking about you now. Same thing, a communication show is nothing more. Or remember New Democracy's announcement on 23-12-2017, which spoke of "a foretold bad weather, which proved enough to strip the state", "the government has slipped away" etc. That's what you said in 2017. You do the same. That's why your world is sick of everyone, you're sick of it. That's why the world, the Greek citizens, turn their back on politics. That's why you only see angered civilians out there. Because they're down. You're all unreliable. In the fires we expect the fire to reach the water to go out into the sea. In intense rainfall we see children climbing to the cobblestones to get out of schools, we see OSCE buses becoming submarines and snow enclaved thousands of Greek citizens. You are the ultimate spectators of every natural disaster! There's no state! The Prime Minister said the day before yesterday that it is difficult to solve problems for decades. I know that Mr Mitsotakis has been a Member since 2004 and on March 7 he is eighteen years in Parliament. Aren't they part of the political system of the past created by this state, the broken-up monster that you created? Is he unresponsible? Is it possible for you to come out of Parliament - it is not here today - and ask for police hordes to go out on the streets in Attica and share fines to Greek citizens? "Hordes", which has a bad meaning, the word horde, means a naughty crowd that destroys and plunders. Aren't you a little ashamed of going out and asking for the change to be imposed and fines imposed on Greek citizens? Let's talk a little bit about the transfer of your airport, Mr. Stylianides. We didn't get enough of our people, you're bringing from elsewhere now. "Palto" Mr. Stylianides came out. The player you brought didn't come out. He is a minister from a registrar, a personal choice made by the Prime Minister, who does not know where Omonia and the Constitution fall. Is it possible for your ministers, the Minister of Energy, Mr. Screkas, to go out and say two hundred thousand homes left without power? Where's the state mechanism, where's the state, where's the state? Nothing! All you know is to bill money, it's to share money that isn't yours. Take two grand, you get 1000 euros, you get 100 euros, you get 150 euros, get 10GB. That's what you're doing. The country lives on loan, Mr. Theodorikos. You have loaded our country 43 billion debts into the pandemic. You celebrate getting loans. The country's debt has reached 400 billion, you know? You're mortgageing the future of our children! It is a country that has sold out ports, airports, trains, power, telecommunications, beaches, national streets, everything! Mr Minister for Rural Development, you have no policy for the creation and production of wealth, no policy for the primary sector, for which our language has haired. The government gives the impression that it only serves some great interests. Unemployment remains unthinkable. Greece is a European champion in youth unemployment under the age of twenty-fifths to 39.1% according to EUROSTAT in November 2021, not according to the Greek Solution. Do you see those things you come and celebrate in here instead of beating your head and asking for an apology from the world out there? That's what you're doing. You've devastated the world on taxes. The budget is based on VAT, indirect taxes and the taxation of employees. Switzerland has a VAT rate of 7.7% and Greece has 24%. I'm sorry we want to compare to Switzerland and not Uganda, which you want. We want to compare to Switzerland, which has 7.7%. Within 2022 seven thousand percent of eighty an auction has been scheduled. You're telling this to the world outside that she's suffering. The famous housewife's basket has pierced, you won't find a cucumber or egg in there, nothing! And your ministers go to the supermarket and take a selfie, and they like it, and they enjoy it with courageous political and humanity in front of the Greek people who are hungry. Inflation closed to 5.1%. It's a decade's record. We didn't even have such numbers for memoranda. And you have the courage to come in here and say what good you're doing! In the energy crisis Greece is in the first positions in Europe in energy costs. The accounts cause shock and brain damage in the world. And, of course, it's all about external factors. You make the statues. It's nobody's fault, it's the outsiders. You shut down the lignites, you're criminalizing - we've been shouting since? - and you've been moving on to a violent frustration of the country. We have the most expensive fuel in Europe since Scandinavia and the Netherlands. The minimum wage in Greece at 650 euros, in Cyprus 900, in Germany, France, in the Netherlands, in Italy 1,700, in Spain 1,000 euros and we 650! Let's go to the pandemic. With unnecessarily lockdown, you have dismantled the economy. You have charged our country more than that and you have destroyed the focus area. You have divided society, the people that you could not convince them either by inhibitions, either by social isolation, by exclusion, or by fines. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Instead of speaking honestly to the world and explaining them, you put him to wash his hands and treat the Greeks as if they were infants. We lose every day a hundred and ten people. We are at the top of Europe. In Greece we lose eleven people per million, in Germany two, in France six. Why? Why? We're talking about human lives. You have despaired the National Health System. Seven and a half thousand avengers remain on a job suspension. What can I say about national issues? Where can we catch you and where can we leave you? Where should we catch you? Your works and days are these. Works and days of New Democracy. You skeptically deceived Greek citizens. You were speaking electorally of betrayals and you made selfie at the rally, and then you spoke of a nationally advantageous agreement. You signed a reduced EEZ with Egypt, reduced EEZ with Italy, reduced influence on our islands. For the first time in time deny the extractions of natural gas and hydrocarbons, you refuse to make use of Greece's assets, not yours. You insist that Greece go to The Hague for Turkey. You gave land and water to the Americans. You made an indefinite agreement for the first time. We have crimes. We have the migration. You have converted Greece into a vast hot spot. You say that you have reduced the illegals on the islands and scattered them in Greece, on the ground. You have Islamized Greece. 13% of adults who live in Greece do not have the nationality of our country. We're putting it in the Minutes. That's what EUROSTAT says. They are elements of January 2020. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what that means? That the population of the country is being altered, that if we continue to do so, in a few years' time we will have a Greece in which the Greeks will be a minority. I'll write you history. The story will write you as those who altered the country's population and led Greece to a Greek without Greeks. As far as security is concerned, Mr. Theodorikos, you took the country's keys and entered as sheriffs to bring the law and order. So you said, as you said and reigned out in lawlessness and incompetence. Crime is having a party. We have murders at noon on the streets. The burglars go into the house and you take the cops out, the police officers ready, looking for certificates and cutting fines for masks. You even built a university police force, your scary ones, and in the universities it becomes a mess. I'm closing, Mr. President. If we sit down and list all your failures and all the suffering you've caused, we'll be caught at dawn. You've broken all the negative records. The Greek Solution entered the House to offer, to offer to the next generations and not to prepare itself for the next elections. Maybe the pollsters, your friends, don't want to see us, the media might not want to see us, but you know very well that the Greek society, the Greek citizens want to see us, because the Greek people want people who care about him. So, as far as you heard us, you did well. We told you about the Rafahs. We told you about the fresh brunettes. We told you about the Greek - French agreement. We told you about the wall on Evros. Mr. Velopoulos told you two years ago about the eight confiscated armoured in Evros. You did it. We were telling you to store oil, to buy oil, to buy gas, when it was $20 a barrel, and you didn't. If you'd heard of the lignites, we'd be better now. First we called for elections, gentlemen of SYRIZA, on December 18, 2021, through the statement by Kyriakos Velopoulos, the President of Greek Solution. We requested an election of 18 December. But you have a chance to do a good one in the country. We've said everything you've done with the catastrophics. You have the opportunity to really do a great good: Get out and quit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Mr. Heta. Generally speaking, so far with a minimum derogation, speaking time is respected, speaking time is respected. It would be a wish that this will continue. We all have to do this so that we do not unfairly blame those colleagues who are going to speak in the last few hours or the last day. It has the floor now, so that the speakers in the circle can be closed by a priority, Mrs Sakurafa Sophia, Vice-President of Parliament, on behalf of the party Mera25. I do not see, of course, KINAL colleagues at the moment, but I will not say anything which raises objections. I agree with Mr Scandalides who said that the issue of the parliamentary group that wanted to meet at the time when this debate is going on is a worrying one. And for me it's sad, maybe for other reasons. Finally, they shall inform me just now that a request was made for a meeting outside the time limit for the three-day debate. That's something different. It can be done. However, the final and permanent solution to how the new Head of KINAL will speak, Mr Androulakis, who is not a parliament, will be given to the Conference of Presidents. We'll talk about it and make a permanent decision. But I wanted you to understand that it was not wrong for anyone. It protects. Thursday there is a serious question for the Change Movement to five Ministers. Three ministers will be here to answer. Can you imagine at the same time having given the Senate hall to a parliamentary group, the New Democracy or the SYRIZA or the Greek Solution meeting? We must find a modus vivendi with this situation, which the Conference of Presidents will do. And it is not exotic what I decided to say and I apologise to Mrs Sacorafa. The Rules of Procedure stipulate that the premises of Parliament are made available by decisions of the President of Parliament, and yet I lead the matter to the Conference to provide a permanent solution to this issue, which is not frequent. It is not common for a large party to be represented by a leader, who is not a Member of Parliament. The Group of the European People's Party is in charge. He's got all the rights. We'll talk. We're going to give a permanent solution. I said, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be a meeting of the parliamentary group outside our debate today and we will give a permanent solution to this problem, on this matter at the Conference of Presidents. But let's not go on with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u55	Come on, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u56	Because we always want to be expensive, Mr President, we are not asking Mr Androlyakis to speak, we are asking for a sitting of our parliamentary group, as we are entitled to, and, of course, the President of our party, Nikos Androulakis. I would like to believe, as I have not heard you, that the matter will be resolved and we will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u57	A new request has been made, which is accepted. It's out of time for these discussions. But we will always resolve this at the Conference of Presidents. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u58	This is very important. We do not want to give more scope to this whole phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u59	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u60	We hope in the future that you will not surprise us again with such decisions as are made on your own and in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u61	The Rules of Procedure give me the right to make these decisions myself, and I am driving this issue, as I have told you, at the Conference to solve it permanently. Mrs. Sacorafa, I'm sorry. You've got your tenth full of yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the relocation to date ten proposals of distrust have been tabled. I would remind you: 1988 Mitsotakis v Papandreou for foreign policy and economy, 1989 Mitsotakis vs Papandreou for the scandals, 1993 Papandreou v Mitsotakis for the Macedonian, 1996 Evert vs Papandreou at the time of Onaseios, 1999 Karamanlis vs. Geramos Arsenis for the educational reform, 2001 Karamanlis against the Minister of Economy Yannos Papantoniou for the Stock Exchange, 2005 George Papandreou vs. The Prime Minister immediately asked for a vote of confidence and took it. I continue: 2007 Papandreou against the Government of Karamanlis for article 16 of the Constitution and private universities, 2008 Papandreou against the Government of Karamanlis for the then insurance bill, 2013 Tsipras against the Government of Samaras for the closure of the ERT. All without exception rejected. So our history alone shows that the relevant provisions of the Constitution are not effective. They are simply used for tactical policy moves, and that is where they end up. Other, incomplete proposals of distrust next to the previous one, the previous one and so on. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are now in such a process, ladies and gentlemen. The once again failure of the Mitsotakis government gives rise to a spectacular opposition movement. The spectacle will cover the absence of an alternative policy or will the Civic Opposition be committed today to reversing the confiscation of public property through privatisation? Will it say today in the state of the country and society that it will'resurrect an anthem' and is it determined not to submit everything to the interests of the parasitic oligarchy and the powerful of the international scene? Are you going to say - SYRIZA - that after the end of the current Convention with Attica, the national roads will return to public control? Will you say today that you are condemning the sale of OSE, the appropriate fragmentation of PPC, the privatisation of airports, ports, concessions of the national road transport network? Are you ready - SYRIZA - to unravel a "mea cuulpa"? Oh, no! No alternative, then, any way out! A simulation of political battle, no ammunition, with fake weapons in the trenches of power. We will watch the same dreadful game, a three-day dead-end debate that will run out of the so-called arguments, 'You have done this', 'yes, but you have the other one'. However, ladies and gentlemen, this false controversy does not concern anyone, no one except you, the lawmakers of power, and perhaps only those who have confined themselves to the role of fanatical fan. On the contrary, all this burden of political rhetoric proves to be one thing, that as long as you self-confirm yourself to your rivalry, the country is constantly moving towards the worst. From your confrontation it only wins a lasting catastrophe and the consequences the Greek people pay for them every day more and more. The problem, of course, is not the way or effectiveness of government management. The real problem for the country is the policy you are implementing and there the SYRIZA does not show any substantial or radical differentiation. Because, therefore, the country's real problem is not management, but policy orientation, the motion of censure you have tabled is reflected in you too. You have made a suggestion of distrust or reproach, as you say against yourself. Moreover, I cannot imagine anyone hoping that the suffocating party discipline or the spear of the occupation of power will retreat and that there will be a break in the government's majority. You all know that's impossible. This government has unleashed a legislative - and not only - war against society, laws which, based on either purpose of service, conception or both, dissolve health, education, work, environment, rights. Nothing's left standing. And all this is voted on as if everyone were in agreement with everything. This is simply a distortion of parliamentary function, because opposition is becoming a mere tool for laws made in secret and unregulated manners by a closed, small group of out-of-control power that operates essentially without any democratic legitimacy. Ladies and gentlemen, my limited time of intervention does not even allow me to list the most provocative of what the government majority in this House has voted for, not only in the interpretation of society, but also against it and with an absolute contempt for the common sense. I cannot, however, comment on the issue of pandemic, precisely because it is an extremist expression of the way in which you perceive the exercise of government power, a policy which is both foreign and provocative. Remember the numbers for the IF beds you announced that you were supposed to have secured the first year. For over three hundred, you even talked from this one, this Step of the House. Then came the reality, with fewer than half the tubed, the system was sealed, the victims of the virus were roughly intubated or even without it in the waiting. When it came to the hour of a hundred dead a day, you tried to convince us that there are no studies to prove that care outside the IM is incomplete and at the end, since society was not addicted to the daily number of the dead, the communal hurricane came. It is true that the government does not participate in human life and society, but it is the responsibility of doctors to choose who will live, that even if human lives that could be saved are lost, the government that is against luxury did not want and could not strengthen the EHS to deal with this situation. And the non-documentary papers of the public government that in any case, whatever ICUs we had built would not arrive, that is the government response to unjust and unjust deaths. The phrase "if I can save even a life, I have to do it" is just for the school rooms in your own Greece! Now, if I'm talking about provocative and incomprehensible analgesia of government power, you'll blame me immediately for populism. Behind the great titles, behind the famous ending state there is only a shortage, failure, arrogance and communication. But Greece can't last any longer, Prime Minister. We saw it in the fires, too, but it grew up in the past few days. And ladies and gentlemen, the climax of your state's accomplishment was just the day before - just the day before! - the distributor who regulated the traffic on the main highway and the Navy - if possible! - who shoveled the ice on Attica Street. The only area of success for your final state is governmental deals, domestic and international. Besides, the entire state of government shows that this is your priority, and that's all you care about. That is why you seek, and that is why you hold and enjoy authority. And the whole world understands that to save the hard core of your system of power you are ready at all times to sacrifice and "Figures". Your failure costs great and unfortunately, in the long term. You will allow me to say that if George Souris lived today, he would say again and he would still be right that Greek politicians are permanently engaged in saving their homeland, which is why they avoid diligently saving her, because after salvation they will not have a profession. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are critical, and society lives these policies literally on its side and pays them very expensively. We believe that society must take the situation in its hands, because power systems do not produce either saviours or leaders. At best, if there were no selfishness and interests, they can only produce prefectures and insufficient managers. And in our party, Mera25, this is what we consider to be the reason and purpose of our existence, the overthrowing of this situation, that is, to walk along with society and through it, without hegemony, in order to contribute with all the powers we have and without inexpensive promises in the struggle to put an end to this vicious cycle of failure and your ruthless failure to bring a new beginning, another future for his place and for his people. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs now has the floor, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that today's debate will be completed as soon as the fourth cycle is completed, that is to say, until Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou - those who have a list - up to thirty-six and continue with the fifth cycle tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government has never claimed to be infallible, much more in the face of certain natural disasters, including, of course, the last snow storm called 'Elpi'. After all, the Prime Minister himself clearly spoke. In any case, our fellow citizens have eyes and see, see our own management in this area, but also yours, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. And you will forgive me for saying that the motion of censure you have tabled itself automatically reminds you of your management in Matti and Mandra with the hundreds of twenty-four dead. We do not want to remind ourselves of this, all of this is not eradicated and arise more strongly in front of us with your own arrogant political speech. At least we had the courage to ask for an apology. Since I have been involved in the public affairs of the country, I do not remember having done so by any other Greek political party, nor by its present or past. And if you did, it might be a profit for the Hellenic Republic. But you are evacuating the same arrogant speech about pandemic. Of course, there are too many victims of the pandemic. No one's denying it. Alas! And one of our fellow citizens was losing his life from the coronary, it would be tragic. However, it is well-known, and the evidence shows that from the beginning of the pandemic we have moved with fluctuations close to the European Union's average. But who are criticizing us? Those who almost professionally say exactly the opposite of what the government does. They're opening schools? "To close schools" is SYRIZA's proposal. Is the schools closing? "To open schools" is SYRIZA's proposal and so on. And that is why, in my view, especially on the issue of pandemic, for which you are once again swinging our fingers, your very attitude in the last two years has, in my view, taken almost comico-tragic features in many cases. Today, therefore, you are putting us on a motion of censure. I assume that you are making a motion of censure to us both on our attitude to Evros and the Aegean Sea to Turkey, on the multidimensional diplomacy of the government, on the free market - you have not voted on them - and on the new war planes. You make us a motion of censure, because we have checked the migration. You are making us a motion of censure, because we have moved forward very quickly in the digital state. You make us a motion of censure, because in the pandemic period we have given more than EUR 40. 43 billion to deal with its consequences for businesses, workers and the unemployed. This is the biggest social package ever in Greece! If you can, question it! However, I am sure that the speakers who will follow will also blame us - it is your permanent 'caramella', after all - for the policy we are conducting at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Whatever happens, whatever developments exist, you use the old tape and you keep talking about analgesics and neoliberals. And before you talk, we know what you're gonna say, regardless of developments. Let me remind you, then, of the reasons why you are making us a motion of censure. You are obviously making us a motion of censure, because the unemployment rate was 17.2% in the summer of 2019 and now, in November, where the latest official figures are, it had fallen to four points and it has gone to 13.3%. That's why you make a motion of censure! You are obviously making us a motion of censure, because the income of the worker paid at the minimum wage, which I have said two, three times from this Step and no one has questioned, thanks to the government's tax arrangements, the reduction of insurance contributions and the small increase of 2% of the minimum wage has increased from EUR 305 to EUR 534 per year. It's an increase of 4%-5.5% on the minimum wage. You make us a motion of censure, because we are preparing a new, important, increase in minimum wage by May, which will further hamper the monopolising of social sensitivity from your side. You know, reality sometimes is very hard on slogans. You make us a motion of censure, because with the digital working card that we are pushing forward and will get flesh and bones in the next few months there will be a substantial and continuous check to keep the working hours of the workers, their overtime and respect for their rights in a modern digital and objective way. Once again, the reality will avenge your slogans. You are making us a motion of censure, because the OAS has proved itself in recent years to draw on active employment policies, that is to say, programmes for the employment of the unemployed, who have three times as high as your period. Prove the opposite! I imagine that you will have to submit, as usual, square arguments and figures inconsistently. You are making us a motion of censure, because we have brought the insurance reform with the individual knots for the new generation, as Denmark, the Netherlands, Sweden, governments which you obviously consider to be retarded and analgesic, and which leads us on the basis of European experience in supplementary pensions for young people more than 43%-68%. You make us a motion of censure, because we have received a million and nine thousand outstanding insurance cases, which we have dealt with in their very great majority, while at the same time we have achieved the last year's record of all the times in the issue of pensions. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From a hundred and twenty-three thousand decisions in 2019 we went to sixty thousand decisions in 2020 and two hundred and twenty-five thousand in 2021. That's obviously why you're making a motion of censure. You are also making us a motion of censure, because only in 2021 have the funds for social protection increased. The housing allowance increased, ladies and gentlemen, 34%, the 14% child allowance and the 12% disability benefits. You make us a motion of censure, because we are preparing to make a reality the "personal assistant" for the disabled, according to the practice of advanced European states and the disability card, a constant demand for the disabled movement in Greece! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You make us a motion of censure for the 2,000 euros allowance for every child born. It was a proposal by Kyriakos Mitsotakis since we were opposition and we acted in the first few months of New Democracy's governance! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are making us a motion of censure, because we are promoting projects such as the 'neighbourhood nannies' for baby care in low-density areas in nurseries. That is why you make us a motion of censure and for all of this you have this sacred wrath that holds you. But let's not hide behind our finger. People understand. The main reasons you make the motion of censure are first, because despite your catastrophe for two and a half years, instead of gaining a resonance on all the polls published, go from evil to worse. And that's what your soul knows in, no matter how much you report the polls. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And even more, you are making the motion of censure, because after the last elections of KINAL, it seems that even the role you have in recent years as the second main pillar of the Greek political system can be called into question. In fact, it is your existential agony that led you to make this motion of censure. However, it is the motion of censure that will enable Greek citizens to judge and compare. Judging our own work with any mistakes and your own amateurs and dangerous choices. It is recently the events for Greek citizens to forget about the overtaxation of the middle class, the thirty new taxes you have imposed, the trespassing of almost all your election promises, the danger of driving the country out of the Eurozone. This is where we were, and we all remember them. However, Greek citizens will be able to compare the style of both parties with this motion of censure and I think it will be even more clear that on the one hand there are those who work, who may also make mistakes, who admit them, but who follow a European path, a common sense, I would say, and on the other hand there are those who represent professionally and continuously the prosecutors, with a bile-and-familiar word, without any self-criticism, obviously and without any serious proposal, the main thing. It is therefore clear that this is the case, and I conclude that this is the case. We have to choose between a Skilled Opposition that remains unrepentant and becomes more toxic and a government that, despite its mistakes, produces work and is the only force that can secure stability and prospects in Greece. For this reason, on Sunday evening the majority of the House will express its distrust with the SYRIZA proposal and will instruct the government to go ahead with a path of seriousness, stability and perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now entering the third circle of speakers, with the first speaker, Mr Efstratios Simopoulos, from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mrs Efi Ahtsoglou will speak from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in my report I will concentrate exclusively on civil protection issues. At first sight, someone would say that my role is difficult. It's not at all. I will begin with a personal example and they will understand mainly from the side of SYRIZA. It was July 11, 2019, the Mitsotakis government had sworn two days ago and today's parliament still had no oath. I was about to go to my political office this morning. The former, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, had become the great cyclone in Halkidiki. My phone's ringing. Where was he from? The Civil Protection. What did they want? They thought I was still Secretary General of Public Works, four and a half years after my resignation. So you handed over the Civil Protection, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA! I could have been generous, but I'm not. I could say that it was the Civil Protection. So you come here and blame a government for the issues of civil protection. And yet the present government has an extremely important task in the field of civil protection. I begin with the bill brought in in February 2020, a bill that actually created the outline, I would say, for civil protection. Because the General Secretariat of Civil Protection until then, what he knew to do - I would say and do well - is give the earthquakes greedy tents. That was the role of Civil Protection, in fact, until then and as you received it, you made it much worse. I brought you the characteristic example of where we were. It was Law 4662 of February 2020, a law that even upgraded the system of volunteering and reorganised the Fire Corps. At the same time it created a National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, which included all stakeholders and local authorities. I don't need to mention them in detail. Continuing in the same direction, one month after this government created the State Secretary for Civil Protection, indicating that he understood the messages of the times, while continuing to secure resources necessary to have a good level of civil protection. I remind you, because I will come later, that last year we had the "Medea" with tens of thousands of households without power, mainly due to droppings of trees and branches. However, by continuing the government's work and analyzing for the immunisation of civil protection, I mention the EUR 700 million guarantee from the NSRP 2021-2027, while for the Environment and Climate Change sector, for which you are cut, EUR 3.5 billion. Here are the numbers and they're relentless. The actions planned include the provision of many and modern air means. Ladies and gentlemen, this summer's fires made it necessary to create a Ministry of Climate Change and Civil Protection, which would have taken full responsibility for preventing and responding to natural disasters. This ministry was created and began to strengthen its structures. But the road is a long one. Protocols shall be required to be automatically activated and appropriate persons and instruments shall be activated, depending on the size of the risk. At the same time, it is necessary to create a guide for actions with simplified all individual actions and actions, without allowing room for errors and failures. I am referring to an electronic system, another glorious field for our Government through the Department of Digital Governance. I also know that similar systems, even with a different structure, exist internationally. I would like to stress at this point that resources have been provided for civil protection and from the Recovery Fund for airborne instruments, for flooding, for thirteen regional risk management centres and for modern equipment tools, such as sensors, cameras and seismographs, but also for what we call'smart infrastructure' will be through the programming of the Recovery Fund, for example, the delimitation of the ramps, but also specific measuring systems for sensors and bridge maintenance. Mr President, last year's 'Medea', summer fires and the recent bad weather in Attica was the precursor of similar phenomena that we will often have in the future. Our country is moving ahead with steady steps in creating a modern and automated civil protection system. We have, of course, experienced traumatic experiences so far. However, as the TEN has dealt with electrical holidays with greater success last year, it even continues without victims to incorporate the experiences of fires and snows. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. At this point I would remind you that the gigantic task of subjugating PPC's cables with resources from the Recovery Fund has now begun. Throughout the established framework for dealing with natural disasters, we must incorporate the armed forces, which have relevant experience through the NEIGHAGE system and at the same time support local government in obtaining know-how and appropriate means. Because, let us admit, local government is not ready to cope with this kind of natural disaster. Finally, our government does not sit with crucifixed hands. He has received a civil protection with almost unique capabilities, as I said, to share tents for earthquakes and create a modern structure, within a modern framework of operation and with a crisis management body. It does so in the pandemic, with a public sector which, despite its important steps of modernisation, is far from being modern.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u67	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u68	Not even thirty seconds, Mr. President. The failures and lack of coordination in the recent bad weather in Attica must and will be a past. Finally, a conquest is, with the contribution of the Prime Minister and the Government, the compensation to be paid by the concessionaires to those who have been afflicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mrs Ahtsoglou has the floor and then Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou from New Democracy immediately thereafter. In order to make coordination, after Mr. Papadimitriou, will Mrs. Antonia Antoniou speak from the Change Movement, then Mr. Kavvadas from New Democracy, Mr. Nikolaos Friends from SYRIZA and then the Minister of Interior Mr. Voridis. Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA to the Government of New Democracy, effectively transferring to Parliament the reproach which society itself puts to the Government of New Democracy. But the government of Mr. Mitsotakis has long resigned and does not understand it. Because a government which does not consider itself responsible for almost anything, a government that does not consider itself responsible for guaranteeing the safety of citizens, the vast majority of citizens, is a government long-standing resignation. It's not a government. They're a team of politicians on a run. Such a treaty is in itself an adequate reason for the call for elections. Such a treaty is not worthy of citizens of a modern democratic state. It is not worth the citizens of this country a Prime Minister who in any problem disappears. It is not worth the citizens of this country a government that at every crisis its staff at best remain silent, in the worst case they are photographed as models of snow, not just confirming the enormous distance that separates them from social reality, but actually mocking the concerns of the citizens. Because this attitude mocks the extermination of the worker who has been trapped for hours on the main road of the city trying to go to work. Why do we do what? Some people are still dependent on their wages. It mocks the anxiety of the citizen who waited at a bus stop, the urban transport that was immobilized. He mocks the agony of the passenger of a crashed train, stuck on the road, the suffering of families who waited in pandemic conditions and stayed without power and heating for days. What, of course, should we expect, when we heard the Minister for Labour speaking about employment rights and their protection, says in particular about overtime workers? The man who has instituted unpaid work, the man who has legitimised unpaid overtime, the man who has abolished the declaration of overworking and has made workers work an hour extra in the day without being declared and without being paid and speaking here of work rights! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And he says he doesn't understand why SYRIZA has a motion of censure. It's okay, the world of work understands, Mr. Hatzidakis, you can be sure of that. But it was not just the recent bad weather that showed the complete collapse of the state mechanism. In further crises that we have experienced lately, in parallel crises that the country has been experiencing recently, the government has provided a picture of a general decline. In the pandemic, we exceeded twenty-three thousand dead. Our country is twice as much as the European Union average in terms of deaths per million population, hospitals and health care have collapsed, and what does the government do? It cuts funding for public health by 820 million, does not demand private clinics, increases students by class instead of reducing them, insists on an incomprehensible protocol of 50%+1, denies the free prescribing of molecular tests. And the Prime Minister of the country appears in Parliament not to apologise, not to explain, but to argue for a long time that a patient who is being hospitalized outside of the country is at the same risk as an intensified person who is being hospitalized and causing political opponents if they have a study that proves otherwise! And it turns out the study existed and not just was there, but he knew it before everyone! And the man himself comes back and says "Okay, it was a physicist atom". This is the Prime Minister of the country and I wonder what country the Prime Minister would remain in his place after such a tragedy. And in the judgement of accuracy, inflation records a record level of 5.1%, the highest in 2011. Explosive increases in electricity, heating, basic foods. How does the government respond? At first he ignored the problem, then insists that the problem is temporary and repeats the same pattern of insufficient subsidies, which prove to be ineffective, just the day after their announcement. And while citizens are struggling for the cost of living that is constantly escalating, what does the government answer? ‘We had an increase in available income in the first nine months of 2021 in relation to 2020.’. The same answer and the same one again. So what? Citizens should feel shielded. Badly they say they have a problem with the cost of living, badly feel, badly experience what they are experiencing. They should experience what we tell them they're experiencing. It is obvious that increases in individual types of primary need are more than double in inflation and are not covered by this specific "photography" that you are trying to make. It is obvious that these price rises for basic types of living are particularly burdened by workers, and are particularly burdened by low and medium-sized strata. It is clear that the basic problem, the major social problem, is not only inflation, the growing trend that is going to stop at some point, but the new price level that is being created and to which they cannot respond to workers and households. We have told you that and in the budget debate. A few days later, the U.S. Institute of Labour also took a report confirming it, and I'll testify to it. And what does it say? That the purchasing power of the minimum wage was reduced by 10.4%. The average wage of parttime workers fell by 13.7%. The average monthly individual income lost 7% of its purchasing power. I put the relevant study into it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Efi Ahtzioglu, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] That's the reality. That's what the workers are experiencing. You insist on a narrative that suits you and you think that that's how you'll convince people that you don't live what lives. And in practice you refuse to reduce excise duties, refuse to raise the minimum wage to EUR 800 and exhaust the budget space with a class-based one-sidedness, promoting measures for a few. And when the time comes when the households say they have a survival problem, you answer them that the budget can no longer stand. What did the Minister of Finance say about VAT on bread? Listen to what he said: Be serious, we cannot increase the deficit. Only in bread is a reduction in VAT costing 140 million euros. It says, EUR 140 million has a reduction in VAT on bread and we cannot do it. How much did the measures cost to abolish the parental benefit tax on maximum assets, reduce the profits tax on large companies, tax on capital concentration? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let me tell you how much it cost? Twice and twice the cost of reducing VAT on bread, which Mr Stakoras says is that we cannot do because it is very expensive. Serious and strict with bread, loose and lightweight with the pancake. Faced with all the major problems facing the country, you have declared yourself excellent, you have proved incapable of selective - I would say - for the large social majority, you have also reached the last dangerous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Ahchioglu, please conclude, because by mistake I put you ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. Apart from the issues relating to public health and the living conditions of the citizens, however, there is another crisis, an institutional crisis, a sense of generalised institutional degeneration that we face. The government appears to be dealing with subjugates, talking to people who blackmailed ministers, broke up public money. And with this it is not only that the government is sinking into rot, it is that it offers bad services and democracy, deceives institutions, strengthens anti-policy, finally gives the extreme right space. These are the reasons Mr Hatzidakis did before that he does not understand with arrogantness once again he said that the problems are the inner part of SYRIZA and it is the cry of the citizens that leads to the motion of censure. I'm closing in a phrase. The problem is political and the response to political problems can only be political. That is why the request for a political change is not rhetorical. It's an urgent need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr Charalambos (Babis) Papademiriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, panic is a bad consultant. Especially when it comes from a party, which was found at a random moment in history suitable for a minority government, and ruled as he did, with the catastrophes he caused to then be able to say that he did something, it is literally interesting. But interesting history. For us, I don't think he has any special interest. Why is he interested? What is it that caused panic? How and why does Mr. Tsipras for the second time in a few days realize, and in secret he tries to make the surprise? Obviously not the majority. He knows very well that the majority has no problem at all on Sunday evening to confirm what happened a few days ago in the budget vote, which is also a vote of confidence. How does the panic of a measure they denounce - because I see that there has been a complaint about this measure - that, of course, still the instrument - official or informal, as you wish, choose you - of your prolongation thinks the Mitsotakis family is still behind? How a measurement, which could just pass,-we'd all say 'ok', we'll see what the next ones will show, but because it's the fourth in a row that shows there are problems, it causes panic. And we see that in public measurements public opinion sends a message to the government, but we record it calmly. Such panic can cause a measurement that you are questioning, I cannot explain. Except that this measurement was transmitted by one of the channels that has the place that is very front and viewing and very friendly to your side. Maybe Mr. Tsipras knows something you don't know, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership. Perhaps for the same reason, when the good of his man came up with the same idea, how to turmoil your own waters, bringing in practically something that is being discussed. And I understand why Mr. Skourletis was angry, and I found out in your conversation. Why are they angry? Because it is possible not to discuss such initiatives, such as this one on how the President will go out or what is a motion of distrust against the government, which, as it turns out, are not discussed in your party either, but here, thank God, is a parliament and there is democracy. In short, we are living and going to spend three days happy, because it is good to confirm certain things, but we all live in an unpleasant situation, because there is no worse thing than what has happened - which is unpleasant - pandemics, disasters, uncertainties where the state mechanism exists, the mistakes of the government. But because the people that are watching are not used to going out and saying to them, "I'm really sorry." It's over and out. He recalls, however, that someone said to him: "But what are you going to do the two grand? You'll spend it." We still remember that an entire festival was set up that satellites were moving over us and firing down fires. Not even the comics I loved when I was younger. Unfortunately, this is going through some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u75	And we still love them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u76	And we still love them. Thank you. As I cannot forget that you have set up a fair that we are being chased by the Council of Europe, that 'LE MONDE' writes articles, that everyone is against Greece, that Greece has fallen into freedoms, one of the most beautiful jokes I have heard, that we do not have freedoms in this place, and especially that fellow journalists do not have freedom. It's endless! Whatever they want, as they want, thank God. And forget you were after Andreas Petrolakis for writing an article with a 2 million-dollar lawsuit, a doctor, a sketch artist, a journalist. You forget that you were chasing Mr. Kourtakis by sending police officers to the offices of the newspaper "Parapolistics" to arrest him, that you were after my colleague and dear friend, Mars Portuguese, as a moral automotive attack, that you were chasing the "Athens Review of Books" because he wrote an opinion somewhere. I've told dear Nikos Kotzia hundreds of times, in the past few years, when we talked differently between us, that she has something Stalinic. None of you were found to say to Mr. Kotzia: "Hold on, Nico, pick up a little. We cannot be chasing the "Athens Review of Books" which is a pride. That you were chasing Giorgos Papachristos at the "News" and chasing him again now. Your right to suction, I'm not saying. That you were chasing SKAI, and you didn't even agree to come to SKAI until the "Ruvikon" took action. I get it, because the bomb broke out in my office, it took me a while to get the wreckage. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] After what had happened you were chasing people, talking to them badly when they came out to tell you what happened to Matty. You forget that you were chasing Giannis Stournara's wife, that your Chief didn't find the courage and honesty to visit Papademos at the hospital that the terrorism had hit him. With all this stuff you're trying to control who? Us? As many times as you want. But your people are watching. And what does he see? He sees what we don't have. What we do not have is an opposition and even an official role from the Constitution, which will stand next to it at the difficult time. You're across the street. You have voted against everything that came here to strengthen the situation in the pandemic, everything. Don't read the list, because you didn't vote almost anything. Nowhere have you stood helpless in this effort, which is an effort of the state. The government may suggest something, but the state does. You refused to vote in favour of compensation for doctors for vaccination. It is about twenty-fifths of the arrangements you refused to vote on. In short, yes, there is an opportunity to remind you of what has happened, but the question I still do not find an answer is why so panic. And why is it bothering me? I don't want to interfere with yours. But because panic's a bad consultant. We'll miss you if you stop having the same tactic you have in these two years. Honestly for that, even thank you, I could.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u77	I thank Mr Papadimitriou and the consistency in time. I would ask everyone very warmly for the time being. Because every violation means we're wrong by some colleagues who won't talk at all. Therefore, warmly ask everyone to complete in seven minutes. The speaker of the Change Movement now has the floor, Mrs Antonia Antoniou for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Movement of Change, we will vote for the motion of censure because we do not support a government that has completely failed in all the crises it has managed and has failed to meet its basic commitments to the Greek people. At the same time, we will use this parliamentary procedure as an opportunity to hear the positions and proposals of the Change Movement. At the same time, citizens are being watched unreservedly by an irrational theater in view of the two political forces that have managed the fate of the country in recent years, the New Democracy and SYRIZA, in a competition between them for who has failed most. New Democracy won the elections in 2019 with the issue of civil protection and security flag. Almost three years later, he can't look the public in the eye. The final state has collapsed, excellent people have proved incompetent and citizens already count many repetitive apologies on the part of Prime Minister. The question is how many failures you burn and leave. Because citizens don't care if the Prime Minister has good social ways. They're interested in whether his apology can be practicable. What samples of practical apology have they seen in the past year? Continuous revisions of crisis management plans? Upgrades in civil protection papers from the General Secretariat level at the State Secretary level and after the Ministry were ultimately translated into another management debacle? How, after so many paper designs, can the government justify the immediate danger faced by thousands of our fellow citizens who were enclaved and left helpless for too many hours? How can he justify the despair situation in which thousands of households were found, in different areas of Athens and all of Greece since the blackout of electricity that he did not say to come back? Citizens from the areas of southern Athens - the dear friend and former mayor of Falliro knows - stayed with more than forty-five hours a cut stream. If this happens in Athens, we all understand what is happening in the rest of Greece. All this at a time of failed management of the pandemic, failed choices of the economy and great precision for Greek citizens. I will concentrate on the area of civil protection, an area in which you have neither plan nor strategy. With the institutional framework that you have created over the past three years, rather than simplifying procedures and functions, and responsibilities are spread in such a way that they can't finally be identified. And this finally became a tool in the hands of the government that sought to renounce its own responsibilities and transfer them to either the meteorologists, saying that they allegedly did not inform it in time, or to the private company "Attractive ID.". But another question is the company's responsibilities and the government's political responsibilities for the lack of serious planning, proper coordination and timely intervention. But once the Prime Minister has been forced to confess to failure, new questions arise: who, when and where, the decisions that led to the final fiasco of the recent storm are being taken. Tell us, after all, who has the responsibilities. Gentlemen of the Government, let us remind you that in the winter of 2020 you voted for Law 4662, but you were, in fact, suspended by the legislative act adopted on 14-320. A number of regulatory provisions have not been adopted and civil protection continues to operate with the former regime. We ask you to inform us: what provisions of Law 4662/2020 have been completed? When will the validity of the act be suspended? When are we going to go to a clear, unified and functional institutional framework in civil protection? Our proposals focus on the following issues. Firstly, the emphasis on prevention, for which nothing is foreseen in your own framework, because, as in practice, ex post treatment is also ineffective, except for multiple costs. Secondly, substantial strengthening of the new Ministry of Civil Protection, which is today an empty shirt without resources and responsibilities and above all without personnel. Thirdly, state resilience targets need to be set so that under any circumstances the centrals of Attica and country, electricity and airports are not dismantled. As far as electricity is concerned, this can be achieved by substituting the cables announced by the Prime Minister a year ago and now he has announced again. Fourthly, there needs to be an upgrade of firefighting at the level of education and a worthwhile structure, without customer logic. Fifthly, we need a civil protection plan with clear procedures, without overlap of responsibilities between the state, regions and municipalities, so that it does not place responsibility on each other. Sixthly, we need to provide the necessary operational means at the disposal of the services that raise the burden of civil protection. Ladies and gentlemen, the fighters of the ruins of Mandra, the burnt in Eye and Evia and, of course, the state's ultimate degradation are seriously harming common sense. They are seriously harming parliamentary institutions and, in the end, they are seriously harming the Parliamentary Republic, as in the eyes of the citizen the state is never next to it as it owes at a difficult time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement does not cry out "elections" in the pandemic, because it has proved to be a responsible political force. He's proved it all over the years of postmulsion.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u79	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u80	But if elections are called, it is ready to overthrow today's political connections. The citizens' demand for new change is resounding and it is the citizens who will impose it. Time's up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Antoniou. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Kavvada, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabling a motion of censure is a very serious institutional process. However, Mr Tsipras uses it for tiny and inner-party reasons. He tabled a motion of censure on the echo of serious inner-party disputes, which took place in the previous period for his choices. At the same time, he is trying to increase SYRIZA's collapsing, which now counts for significant losses. The aim of Mr Tsipras is therefore not the government, which on Sunday evening will confirm that he has the confidence of the House. The aim of Mr. Tsipras is the inner-party opposition and the Change Movement, because the Chief of Officer Responsibility sees this second position also being questioned. She can't even look or hope. But even under these circumstances, this parliamentary procedure once again gives us the opportunity to judge and compare citizens, to judge and compare policies, to judge and compare the credibility of the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff. And it's an opportunity to remember all the features of SYRIZA governance, management failure at all levels, lies, overtaxation, irresponsibility and contempt for the citizen. Of course, with regard to the newly known Attica extreme weather phenomena of these days and their consequences, there is no doubt that there have been failures. The Prime Minister, directly, with sincerity and bravery, apologized to the citizens, clearly. When did Mr. Tsipras and his ministers do that? When did they assume their responsibilities for Matty and Mandra, where we did not just live natural disasters, but did we experience the loss of a hundred and twenty-five of our fellow people? When did an apology sound? Remember the appearance of Mr. Tsipras the same night and the statements of Ministers that they said they were looking for big mistakes and they didn't find them? Remember the excuse that the dead were just because they "did sit on their shift"? I will then submit to the Minutes what they have said. On the contrary, the Government of the New Democracy and it will bear responsibility. Most importantly, however, it sets as a priority the improvement of the structures and efficiency of civil protection, like any other aspect of the state and governance. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has given examinations in many areas. Its work in the economy, development, investment, technical issues, speaks for itself. It has been tested in unprecedented crises, extreme natural phenomena, external challenges. And not only has kept society and the economy standing, but it leads the country to a time of growth and prosperity. Without having imposed a single tax, on the contrary, by systematically reducing burdens on citizens, it has managed to bring about investment and growth to a positive pace in the economy. And not to forget twenty-nine new taxes had been imposed by the SYRIZA government. Twenty times he cut off pensions by kicking the civilians. On the contrary, for two and a half years, we have introduced, among other things, reductions in ENPI, income tax, advance payment and withholding tax, a freeze in the contribution of solidarity to the private sector, a reduction in insurance contributions and much more. Unemployment has fallen, households' available income has increased. The international economic community and the rating agencies give Greece a vote of confidence. Indicatively recent example is the large investment ‘JP MORGAN’. The course of the economy is valued positively and possibly in a few months to get out of reinforced supervision. The Government and the Prime Minister himself have demanded and achieved the creation of a financial and development instrument, the Recovery Fund, which will carry in the coming years 32,000,000 euros in addition to 400,000,000,000 euros in the new ESDP and the Common Agricultural Policy. It supported society and the real economy during the pandemic period, with over 43,700,000 euros. He shielded the country against external threats. Strengthen the deterrent power of the Armed Forces. It builds strong alliances for peace and stability in the region. It has great diplomatic achievements culminating in the strategic alliance with France, which has ensured the mutual defence aid clause in our country. It ensured twenty-four top Ruffalo aircraft, three state-of-the-art bellara fryers, of course, along with the F-16 update agreement and the Mirages of our Hellenic Air Force that had precedented. These agreements, which dictate national unity and responsibility towards the country, the Qualified Opposition either voted against them or declared "residents". At a time when our foreign policy is crucial, we have the misfortune of having a Civic Opposition that invested and invested in destruction. But, ladies and gentlemen, this SYRIZA attitude does nothing but convince the citizens that they have made the right choice. Because citizens know that the Prime Minister is consistent in what he says, he is true and effective. Because they realize the danger for the country if a SYRIZA government had been called upon to manage the attempted invasion attempt in Evros, the pandemic, the Turkish challenges in the Aegean Sea. Greek citizens will never return to paranoia, populism, division, improvisations, destructive and minority ideas. SYRIZA will never return to the government again. On Sunday, Parliament will vote against the motion of distrust and another day, which will be and then Sunday, Greek citizens will again vote against SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras and reaffirm confidence in the face of Mr Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. I fully support the government and the promotion of the place for the well-being of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u83	We are also grateful to Mr Cavada and to him for the consistency in time. The floor is now, after the Stepma is settled, the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Nikolaos Friends, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting with a question to the ministers who are here. I hear that at the meeting of the relevant Ministries with companies on the roads and other stakeholders on Sunday to deal with the wave of snow that was coming: First, the Minister for Civil Protection was not there. Is it true? Who participated on behalf of this Ministry? Secondly, the Ministry of Education insisted that the schools should finally be opened on Monday and Tuesday. Be careful with the snow, the cold, the condition we have all lived on, imagine this school bus traffic, children, parents in the snow towns. Is that true? I would like a simple answer from the government, because it is a very serious matter and, above all, the Minutes of the Sunday sitting, which I referred to, must be submitted to the House. It's a crucial issue. So let's leave the apology. What they're worth, we all understand. "Since the apology has been discovered, the honor is lost," says our people, and without the official documentary of this meeting. Let's see, finally, if the state, the government or a private business are responsible for road safety, as we have heard from Mr Theodorikos earlier. Our country is in the war of many crises. He's in a free fall. We do not accept fatalism that we cannot get out of these crises standing. We do not agree with the idea that Greece is proportional to the third worst position in terms of the pandemic's dead, among the western countries of the European Union. This is the result of the government's bankruptcy in the vaccination programme, but also in its choices not to strengthen the ESS, even in the conditions of the pandemic. Our country is facing a growing economic crisis which was not defined by the pandemic, but has been exacerbated by the Government's choices to turn pandemic into an opportunity to enrich its friends, to break up public money, scandals and to strengthen large business groups at the expense of labour and small and medium-sized enterprises. The government celebrates the investments that are supposed to come. But the evidence is relentless. Greece is in the third worst position in the European Union in terms of economic and social exclusion, just over Bulgaria and Romania. Our country is being condemned internationally for the ever lower level of democratic rights. The Council of Europe and the European Parliament - not SYRIZA - are supporting behaviour - obviously with a government mandate - of the Greek authorities that turn the Aegean into a cemetery of refugees and immigrants, as was said by Pope Francis. Other international organisations such as the "Publishers Without Borders" now rank our country at the worst levels in terms of freedom of press: persecution of journalists, major economic interests, or the government that affects freedom of press. In other words, we are a little more than Hungary, Bulgaria and Malta, where they are, of course, carrying out journalists. Police brutality phenomena, such as the murder of young Roma, are covered by the government, which is enough to lose a whole car - phenomena, while the minister responsible visited the perpetrators of policemen and not the family of the victim. And yet other heinous crimes, such as rape for young girls, are treated with something that looks like bureaucratic indifference. In reality, however, this is a cover-up, without controlling who and why they have slipped, especially whenever the rapists allegedly are the descendants of the high elite in our country. It's not worth our people and our youth such a fortune. It is necessary to make the quickest possible political change. But we know that the fall of the Mitsotakis government is not a numerical event. Around it there are great interests, complexity, bankers, the dominant media, with the money from European funds. It is about trying to restructure the urban political system that has been demolished by the bankruptcy of the memorials and is now seeking to re-engine against the left and the people. This is a great social and political confrontation between two poles, organized programmatically and ideologically around the right that goes increasingly on the right from the left. There are no interim neutral consents to intensified crisis. This message is international and European from elsewhere. The modern left projections as the force that can represent the interests of the vast majority, to shape the necessary political and social alliances, so that the intended development is based on work for all, especially for young people, on the creation of a new social state which has guaranteed public health, education, housing, social security, on environmentally-friendly development and promotes understanding between the countries of the region without inflicting on thousands of EastMed who have collapsed as they conflicted with the need to rehabilitate the hydrocarbons. Gentlemen of the government, you have no right to engage the country in the fire of the Ukrainian crisis by conferring the port of Alexandroupolis to US forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Education, because it promotes the commercialisation of education and reduces the right of children to education, does not give rise to unregulated competition within school classrooms, the degradation of teaching and the conversion of school into an examination centre, it pushes 15-year-olds out of education, early training. You squeeze, gentlemen of the government, the physiognomy of the school. You serve darkness, religion, history's subjection to nationalist purposes. You drown in artistic education and social and political education courses. And all this at a time when the crisis in the political phenomenon, the strengthening of individualism and consumerism, as well as social inequalities, is being launched and making it necessary to tackle the new difficulties that undermine the lives and the natural balance of adolescents. Your policy prevents high school students from completing their studies with the infamous bank of topics and with the minimum basis for introduction, which brings about twenty thousand children every year from higher education, creating customers for private colleges and even kills the dream of children studying in night schools to continue their studies. At a time when the outbreak of pandemic creates the need for children to regain the student's status and to face up to the sides of an underground demolition, namely to implement a school's policies of inclusiveness, you invest in false excellence, i.e. atomicism and lead to the dissolution of collective visions of democracy and solidarity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is a model of education of the few that runs counter to the directions of the European Union, which aims at an ever greater number of children with higher education. You apply a model of degraded education that corresponds to a growth with low-qualified, poorly paid and socially-free jobs for a model of development of tourism, casinos and real estate that will lead to economic and social bankruptcy again. And while you support private colleges, you leave underfunded and subordinated public universities. You're setting up police departments at the universities. We heard what Mr Theodorikos said earlier. Bravo! Universities want administration at universities, not police.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u85	Finish, Mr. Friend, please. You're working at the expense of colleagues. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u86	I shall conclude, Mr President. Submit any research into business pursuits rather than the need to transform the economy and create high-value products. The policies of the social and economic exclusions you are following create reasonable reactions to youth, parents and teachers. Your answer each time is one and only: authoritarianism, authoritarianism, authoritarianism and repression. The 'CISCO' scandal, with the personal data that went to the expense of children and teachers, we have all experienced it. The Ministry has long refused to comply, despite being condemned by the Privacy Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Philly, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u88	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u89	You say that many times. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, as has happened at times in the history of our country, youth and education are the meteorological station which warns of the upcoming social and political crisis. We are voting against the government on behalf of young people, people of education and parents. This vote of censure will not end tomorrow with the connections within the House. It is the beginning of unresolved struggles for the education, work and the future of the new generation. Today we're starting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u91	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Be well and always like that! We should be very grateful because this motion of censure is obviously supposed to be about failure in the management of bad weather.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u93	Not only.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u94	I'm filling in, Mr. Skourlet. I read them. We were there, this half-page, I read it. It is supposed to be about the issues of accuracy and the issues of pandemic management. The issues of pandemic management are obvious that the Chamber has discussed them many times, not one, not two. For two years we have been discussing the management of the pandemic. What is the added value of this parentheses debate? None. On the issues of accuracy you were also able to do parliamentary control and discuss them, but they have also been discussed. What's left of it as an extra? To discuss bad weather issues. You have had opportunities of focused parliamentary control, to have discussions with a timely question, a specific debate on these issues, so that the debate is focused. You gave us the gift to enlarge this conversation. You have given us the gift to allow us to discuss all about government work. I have also heard a hint from Mrs Ahtzioglu, who has now been heard by Mr Philadelphia in particular, who is talking about some kind of institutional crisis, institutional definiteness. There is an issue of institutional slipping. You're talking about some conversations. Mr. Friend spoke of prosecuting journalists. You're really causing us. Where we want something to forget and overcome, you have to recall your things in our memory. Do you really come to this Chamber and raise these issues? Be careful, there are various charges which have been attributed to political persons and have been punished by political persons in fact on the way to that country. It's true. It was most, not all, about financial management issues. To date, issues of charges for policing against their political opponents, for abuse of power to intervene in the judiciary to set up charges and to blame innocent people, this privilege is only you. Yours are two indicted ministers for these accusations from Greek justice. And you come here and talk about prosecuting journalists? Was it not your government that journalists were being driven by iron-blockers, please, by the Minister who was speaking with the authorities? You're talking about talks between the Minister and a convicted isovici in prison to organize the charges? Are you talking after the end of the case and the 'NOVARTIS'? You remember, ladies and gentlemen, this sitting at which defendants came, where their affairs were adopted today, and I wonder how you stand against it? What are you going to say now, you who move the finger on institutional integrity? Do they forget about these? And we may want to forget about them, but when you come and give up, can we forget about them? But listen, I will come to open up the wider debate on the functioning of the state and the functioning of the state, which, rightly speaking, is a big, huge and central issue that is concerned. Tell me, you were four and a half years in the government and you were a left-wing government that came to run a class state, a discriminatory state, a state that within its institutions - so does your theory not say? That's what you said?- it's intertwined, welcomes and concludes relationships with interests and serves the interests of the oligarchs. That's what you said, isn't it? And you're here to change the state and make institutional areas. In four and a half years, how many laws did you bring and what content did these laws have? Ladies and gentlemen, in four and a half years the radical SYRIZA and his revolutionary momentum on the issues of administrative reform has been brought to three prefectures. In four and a half years they brought three laws. They brought mobility, brought the Register of Officials and the change of evaluation and brought a law called "Assemblies of the AACC". They brought three laws. Let us see what we are conservative, we who are the ones who are ultimately not evangelizing the big change, say we correct the bad texts. But this is where the radicals came in to change everything and brought these three. Beware, mobility has never been implemented in its entirety. After many institutional changes the first to apply mobility to its fullness is our government for the first time in 2021. The Staff Register has never been implemented. The evaluation was, of course, a great change. The scale from zero to ten of the scores made it from zero to a hundred. Shocking, monumental. And the result of this assessment is that today those rated at 95% get the "Good", get "Very Good" and "Aristotle". This is the result of their reform. The provisions of the law: ‘Reinforcement of the APA’ have never been implemented. What have you come to do to tell us about the state today? What are you doing, tough reformers? You're here to change everything to public administration. And what have we done, which, as your Chief told us, is the most useless and incapable government in Transmigration? You were the very good ones and you did these. Now let's go see what we've done that we're useless not in four and a half years but in two and a half years: Law on development agencies in OTAs. The internal control law applicable, no applicable. Two hundred internal auditors have already been trained by the National Centre for Public Administration and Government. The integrated system with the audit committees is already in place. Internal control with specific programming shall be applied and shall take effect. The Law on ASEP where we are now preparing the Greek competition that is to take place in September or October, but it will be done, is moving forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u95	Is it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u96	Of course it will, Mr Zachariadis, and do not question it. You've started making announcements that you're planning for the future. I advise you to be vigilant for two reasons. First, for reasons of regularity. When you anticipate the future for something I haven't done, I'm likely to. So you'll be exposed. And, secondly, for the reason that even if I didn't want to do that, because I don't do such things, as you know, I don't act like that, but it's not possible to predict the future. The teleworking law which you have voted against today and you are calling us why we are not applying it. It's a comedy. The opposition is a comedian. You vote against the law and tell us why we don't do telework. But you voted against the teleworking law. However, the Presidential Decree on data protection in teleworking is already in place and proceeds to the competent authority. Law on pets. The law on lobbying along with the law of internal auditors are two central legislations that allowed us to climb up seven positions in the corruption index, which you intellected us, the integers, who came on the main demand to deal with the corruption of institutions, and we fell seven positions. We are now back because of these legislation. Civil society law. At OTA level, the law on the abolition of mere proportionality. I hope you understand what you have done with simply proportionality, because this is the only law that we have brought about local government, the change of the electoral system. We are collecting our uncompromising interventions all this time so that we can deal with the issues that you have raised. So the abolition of 50% of the derogations. Be careful, they legislated on mobility and at the same time that they legislated on mobility, legislated within two years and a hundred derogations from mobility and canceled the whole system. And now you're coming to move the finger for the public administration and the state? Are you coming to tell who? We are again very happy and happy about this motion of censure, ladies and gentlemen, because once again the Greek people, but also colleagues in Parliament, have the opportunity to have a clear comparison of what the SYRIZA Government has done and what the New Democracy Government has done. And, of course, we don't stop at that. Our ambitions are much larger. And, yes, a law will come for a new assessment and, yes, a law will come for a new targeting system and, yes, a law will come with which to change the Code of Citizenship and, yes, a law with which to make the Single Code of Government. Mr Zachariadis, I am pleased that last time I heard you give up on us because we have delayed the transfer of powers. I am pleased when you encourage us to implement our programme more quickly, but it is important, since you like it and want it to be implemented quickly, to vote on it already. Because of all this, you haven't voted for anything. So the answer is as follows. It is obvious, Mr President, that this motion of censure does not have any political objects in relation to the government. That's understandable. You know the result of Sunday. You know that our parliamentary group will be solid. You know that Parliament is going to give its trust on Sunday afternoon to the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. That's well known. So what makes you do it? Why did your Chief decide? Mr. Tsipras, from a charismatic and great new leader, a brilliant left-wing child, in which all European dreams have been invested, is now defeated three times, for two and a half years with two and a two-digit difference between Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. And now, recently, in polls, he's been struggling for the next one, and he's got a third one. And in agony what did he say? To table a motion of censure as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u97	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u98	So no opposition is built or social reports made. The answer will be given on Sunday evening by the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which will support the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Vlassis, has spoken for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, today's motion of censure tabled by the SYRIZA Parliament's Group against our Government, as well as Mr Tsipras has made sure to present it as a prerequisite, is, in essence, nothing more than a movement of impression, with the ultimate aim of concise party audiences. In any case, today's debate, not only does it scare us, but rather it is a first-class opportunity to take stock of the government's work over the last thirty months. And I am sure that at the end of this debate, every Greek citizen can easily answer the question whether the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis deserves to be at the wheel of our country. In the positions of Mr Tsipras on social and national tragedies, we respond with the facts of our administration. For those who forgot or chose to forget about it, I would remind you that we have received the rule of the country at a time when Greece was being treated by its partners as the "black sheep" of the European family and imagined as the easy target for those who wanted to harm or use it for their own benefit. At the very first moment, we left behind the period when the sea had no borders and our country was a clear vine and we defended our national sovereignty to the full. The migration-refugee, which had evolved into an unsolved equation, was effectively dealt with by our Government, with the flows showing a 90% reduction. And all this while the challenges from Turkey were constant and particularly intense. Successful response to events in Evros, but also constant tensions, was the result of the determination and the right judgment of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and our Government. Perhaps - and I say perhaps - if others had the responsibility of managing these situations, then we were really dealing with tragedies. In two and a half years we have managed to do what SYRIZA and PASOK governments have not done for decades. We have built strong relations with strategic partners. We signed important agreements. We have managed to have the support of the international community by strengthening our country's position in the South-East Mediterranean. We did not, however, remain in the unprecedented diplomatic marathon, but in practice we strengthened our country's deterrent power through an important armament programme. We did what many dreamed, but they didn’t dare touch. Our country of exile played a leading role, because this was the target of Mr.Mitsotakis since the first time he took over the rule of the country. Do you forget that we were the first to set up the European Recovery Fund, through which 32 billion euros will be raised? Or are you deliberately overlooking the country's development orbit, which is abstractly reflected in both the numbers and the major projects and investments that take place after years? The international community and our partners are constantly making praise, at the same time as you are seeing tragedies. Even in the unprecedented health crisis that has arisen because of the coronary pandemic, the image that Accuracy wants to present is certainly not the right one. Great reinforcement of the National Health System for the last two years with fourteen thousand medical and paramedical staff, while on the subject of ICU beds, don't forget that we received five hundred and fifty-seven beds in 2019 and today are a thousand three hundred. Do you really think that you can convince the middle Greek that you would manage the situation better, you who in the first wave of our pandemic accused us of having a lockdown and shut down schools? Is that what you would have done if you were in the country's rule? Would you have created pictures of Bergamo in Athens? Of course, your attitude is negative in all the critical votes on the pandemic in the House. Obviously, mistakes and omissions have also been made during our administration. But our mistakes are far from justifying the motion of censure. In all the unprecedented situations we have had to deal with, such as the severe bad times of the last two years or the fires of summer, we have set human life as the first priority and have managed to protect it against similar cases in the past. I'm sure the state mechanism could have done better. But it is not easy within thirty months to change his pathogens, which your governments have nourished and have not faced. And we certainly don't play theatre, as Mr. Tsipras and the SYRIZA officials did after the tragedy in Matti, nor did they ever come out of the ministers of our own government to say that 'I am trying to find a mistake, but I do not find' as the Minister responsible, Mr. Toskas, said at the time. Mr. Tsipras was not the one who had the nerve to say on fire: “What can you do with the two grand? You're going to spend it."? For a sincere apology, no reason. But we have also had the equilibrium and sincereness to apologise and, in practice, to address our omissions. Every mistake becomes a head office for improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, the time is too limited to listing what the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has done in the short two and a half years. I will mention, for example, the fight against violence in our universities, the creation of foreign-language departments, the first essential claim for the return of the Parthenon Marbles to Greece, the digital transformation of the state in record time, the stricterisation of the Penal Code, but also in economic sizes the reduction of the ENPI and significant tax rates. I am sure the Prime Minister in his speech will give all the answers he needs. However, if you wanted - and I am finishing, Mr President - to be honest with yourself, but also with the citizens, you should admit that it is particularly convenient for you that at the present time, you are in the opposition. The difficulties are for those capable and responsible. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy have proved in practice both their ability and their responsibility, always in the light of the interests of the country and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. A first comment on Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, all the infrastructure you had on your birthday cake, the ones you delivered to business interests, streets, and others, when you were shown as Superman - or Batman, I don't remember exactly - they collapsed in bad weather. Superman did not go well, Mr Hatzidakis, as did the rest of you today. No apologies from any government or any reproach can mitigate the serious consequences, close the wounds of the working people's families, from the implementation of a policy by all parties, integrated into the single strategy of pluralism to shield its power and its profitability. The management of natural phenomena, earthquakes, fires, floods, snow, is based on the European Union's choices for eligible projects, on the logic of cost and benefits, rather than on the protection of life. That's why the heavy consequences. Government, regional and municipal authorities each time present the readiness of the central and local state mechanism and are disproved. These days it has also been shown that profit with safety and quality is not compatible, as in the privatisation road network, in this case the ‘ATTI’, ‘TRAINOSE’, ‘PPC’. Almost all the streets in Attica, with the majority of the mayors supporting and implementing central policy, have troubled thousands of people. Because the logic of costs and benefits does not allow costs for staff, machinery, infrastructure as a whole. Justified rage and indignation must not fade. It needs to be organised, struggle, vindication, to have results. That is why we welcome the initiative of the Municipality of Patras for the gathering tomorrow with the participation of hundreds of operators in Attica. We call on the people to make a mass'residence' of this policy, regardless of which government they apply it, so as not to be shy about the weather phenomena, to claim the life and the future that they deserve. The strategy of capitalist development is the one that stands in the way of satisfying people's needs. This scans the lives of working people's families. All parties to the chapter, except the JRC, are subject to it. One government builds on the other the anti-government, anti-grassroots future of working people's families and especially young people. The anti-legislative framework is hard to tell which work it is. He has the signatures of all the parties to the capital. For the wages that have collapsed and poured crocodile tears you are all accomplices. Recall that New Democracy - PASOK with the Act of Legislative Content 6/2012 reduced the minimum wage to one night 22% and 32% for young people under twenty-five years. SYRIZA maintained it in his term of office and at the end, in 2019, increased, refusing to abolish the abortion law, restoring the collective minimum wage contracts to EUR 751. This is currently missing by EUR 101 from 2012. Now it proposes 800 euros, but with the maintenance of the Brutsi - Ahchioglu Law. All together, ladies and gentlemen, you rejected the proposal of five hundred thirty unions, tabled by the JRC on several occasions, to restore collective labour agreements, the minimum wage to EUR 751 as the basis for increases. What is the result of this policy? One out of three employees making the month with 345 euros, gentlemen! I repeat, 345 euros. The average wage has reached 785 euros. Sunday's over. Eight the New Democracy and the PASOK before, thirty-two SYRIZA continues, of course, now the New Democracy. As far as labour relations are concerned, each government has, since 1990, legislated flexible forms, short-term, poorly paid projects which recycle unemployment. In the ninth month of January - November 2011, redundancies, gentlemen, were two million sixty-seven thousand forty-one, as well as all employees in the private sector, and recruitment, at the same time, was two hundred and two thousand. Flexibility and hunger wages are now a permanent situation. It's your work! All of you! The accuracy, the appreciation of the types of primary need, with current leading to energy poverty and misery. It increases the rate below the statistical limits of poverty. You are all shielding pluralism, with the limitation of trade unions and democratic freedoms. The restraining framework added the Achtsoglou strike and was enriched by the Hatzidakis Act, which is considered as psychological violence, providing for the right to the employer to claim compensation from the club and proclaiming the strike as illegal and abusive. The same law enacted in the eighth hour, the increase in hours of overtime, hours of overtime, while at the same time reducing their remuneration. Do you think the workers would applaud you, Mr. Hatzidakis, for this project? Shame on you! Thousands of cases, hundreds permeated, and the dead more than twenty - three thousand. This is the result of the class management of the pandemic! Workplaces, public transport, schools are without measures, with workers experience the consequences. The blackmails of the factory have been taken off, they have been aired in their sails. "Take Depon and come to work" or - yesterday - "Stop your neck to come to work with the snow"! The minimum safety and safety standards are not complied with in the workplace. Employers' crimes are daily. The Labour Inspectors' House has allegedly become an independent authority, fully dependent on the objectives and strategies of capitalist development, which does not fit in with labour and insurance rights, trade union liberties, without any control. In time, all parties present each time as saviours have the priority of privatising social security. In insurance, governments build, alternately, on each other's structure. The law of SYRIZA, the Katrugalo Law, was the most emblematic, extended by the Government of New Democracy and by the Law on supplementary pensions by implementing a provision of the Katrugalo Law, now, to cut the so-called 'national', which reaches 245 euros. In the next few days, the New Democracy brings a bill on EVA, where it is revealed that the attack on the overall privatisation of insurance has no end. Here is what your work is: over a hundred and fifty thousand basic pensions are currently pending and a hundred and twenty-five thousand are subsidiary. That's a disgrace! 27% of retired people are invited to spend 370 euros, gentlemen! 38% of retired people, about a million, get a 580-euro pension clean. Where do you want the pensions to go anyway, gentlemen? Will you stop? Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u103	Close, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President. The capitalist development you all serve is neither can it ever become growth for everyone. Growth rates go up as far as labour and insurance rights are scanned, as injustice is growing at the expense of citizens. The victorious struggles of “EFOOD”, “COSCO” show the strength of the labour union movement and its organisations against the policy that breaks down labour security rights. The struggles of "LARCO", "PETROLA KAVALAS", the builders, the land workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u105	Close, Mr. Katsotis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u106	...they give an answer - and I shall end, Mr President - to the workers' and the Government of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, you said that three times. Finish. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u108	For the working class there's no hope...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u109	You're working at the expense of colleagues who won't talk at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u110	...if she doesn't organize her own race...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u111	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u112	I shall conclude, Mr President, just a minute. ...with a strong question about the sovereignty of capital, its political staff. They can't be sentenced to wages...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u113	Mr Kattotis, please warmly!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u114	...and starvation pensions and work...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u115	Mr Katsotis, you're all saying you're done and you're always turning pages. Oh, no! You're done!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u116	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u117	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u118	...and modern slavery and still remain in these parties, that deprive them of prosperity, happiness. Now join the JRC on the path of overthrowing, the other form of organization of society. We vote 'yes' in reproach...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u119	You, however, deprive some colleagues of the right to speak. If each takes two and two and a half minutes more then twenty, thirty colleagues will not speak. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, now has the floor for seven minutes. Hot request: Everyone knows the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u120	You didn't interrupt Vorides, who spoke for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u121	He didn't speak so much and don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u122	Fifteen minutes he spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u123	And Mr. Voridis, I'm the...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u124	You didn't interrupt him!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u125	I made an observation four times. Do you want me to turn off the microphone? Did I turn it off for you? Listen to something: Do you want some of our colleagues not to talk? Time is given, each Member speaks seven minutes, so - warm request - adapt your texts. You're all texting. Customise your texts to seven minutes. It is a one-minute tolerance, but from there on it cannot go on, because then some colleagues will not talk. Well, you talk as much as you like, and some colleagues won't talk. Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three things identify the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA and lead to its self-evident rejection: its reason, its cause and its political face. I'll start on her occasion. The proposal follows on from an unprecedented bad weather, a natural phenomenon which has, in fact, affected and afflicted the citizens. And the Civic Opposition comes with its proposal, on the basis of such a natural phenomenon, to give the government the form of general incompetence. I don't want to escape. Besides, the Prime Minister himself courageously and responsibly apologized to the citizens for any problems that have arisen, no matter whether the main problem was caused by the ineffective management of a private company. So we didn't escape. We have taken a responsibility, even if it does not account for us, precisely because we recognise and appreciate the problem created by the citizen. And I do not remember another time and another government making advances and obliging individuals to pay compensation and financial compensation to those in trouble. As I said, however, we did, because it is within our worthy framework and our political culture. The Ministry of Energy, in cooperation with the European Union, has already begun and launched the very important task of substituting PPC cables. So we're neither irresponsible nor opportunityal. And precisely responsibility and prediction are the key to any long-term disaster management and to any civil protection, which, after all, concerns citizens. I shall close parentheses, however, and go back where I started, on the occasion of the motion of censure, because, as I said, a motion of censure is being raised on the occasion of a natural disaster, it also reveals the quality of this proposal. And you know why? Because natural disasters and problems in people's lives, which inevitably create, even unite enemies. Let me remind you of the famous quake diplomacy, where even Greece and Turkey put it all aside, because these phenomena are so superior to us and the suffering of people so real, even traditional opponents realize that it does not fit our political culture to make these sad things happen because of cheap exploitation. We have not made a motion of censure either in Mandra or in Matti, although we have had hundreds of deaths. This political culture, which even Turkey can show to Greece and vice versa, even Pakistan in India and vice versa, even Azerbaijan in Armenia and vice versa, the SYRZA cannot show it. This proposal is a proposal for a policy of harassment, a proposal for a political humour, a proposal for people under the circumstances. Because that's what this is about. You tell me, it's not surprising that SYRIZA works this way, because all his course has been the course of a political host, an opportunityr of events. In this way it managed to be made by a party of 3%, government and a majority. Like, in other words, it is today trying to exploit the human problems of a natural disaster, so it was then contracted to exploit the financial pain created by the crisis and the memorials and, finally, to do so, when it took over power, the best and the most obedient child of austerity. They were the same, ladies and gentlemen, and they remain the same. Trading pain has also been a trade of pain. The difference is, of course, that the world has understood them. You know, I've been one of the first - if not the first - who in this Chamber I said that SYRIZA will return to its historical rates. And it is a matter of time, apparently, SYRIZA ends up with a third party. I said it then, and I repeat it today. And the quality characteristics, in particular, polls, deserve it. And I sincerely believe that when we go to elections, at the end of four years, SYRIZA will indeed become a third party and Tsipras will see Mr. Androulakis as the chief of the opposition officer. So the reason for the motion of censure is diffuse panic. SYRIZA understands that it will not remain Certified Opposition for a long time. However, there is also a third reason why the rejection of the debated motion of censure is a one-way street. It is not just a question of parliamentary numbers and correlations. The king is naked not only as regards the occasion and the cause, as I have already developed, but as regards the political sign and its political content, which are both empty. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a peculiar matter for SYRIZA to accuse the Government of New Democracy, the government of the third memorandum and of the Katrugalos Act, which has denounced the middle class in Greece, has dismantled small entrepreneurship and declared a class war on the productive potential of the people. This government doesn't accept skill classes from SYRIZA's losers. Your proposal will be voted against, not because the parliamentary figures want it, but because political reality and political logic do so. And you know what that logic says? That the world wants universities to learn and not to be beaten by the teachers, wants the streets to circulate and not to have organised minority parties. The world wants modern equipment for the Armed Forces and not your Chief - as recently said - that we should not have a armaments race, causing waves of sympathy to Turkey and the "Zumhuret" to welcome it on a front page. The world wants to abolish the solidarity levy - as we have done - and it wants to rationalise ENPIA - as we are about to do, it wants fair insurance contributions - such as those that we have implemented - and not the carpets of the Katrugalos law, as, of course, the world wanted and appreciated that we have kept the economy standing at pandemic times, with returnable advances, with the rent subsidies, with the suspension of tax obligations and with the guarantee of jobs. And you see the paradox? These demand-enhancing policies were guaranteed and implemented by us, the so-called neoliberals and the so-called analgesics, the so-called austerity fans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. And we are not sorry that, in the end, with this policy, we made the last card of figs from the so-called Left to swallow. Because the real austerityists are you. On the contrary, we are the prolongation of the development and strengthening of popular incomes. And all this without the methodology of borrowers, in which you are traditionally addicted, without the collective pogroms that you impose on the Greek people, and especially not on foolish policies, which you closed down the banks in 2015. And so - I close - for all these reasons, her reason, her reason, her political sign and content, your motion of censure will not have and could not have a chance of success. But perhaps we should let you enjoy it, even as a fantasy, because, as I have told you, in the next elections you will become a third party and hence your ability to submit a motion of censure will now be drastically limited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u127	I too thank Mr Karagunis and the time approach. After the Step is settled, the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Chara Kafantaris for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, New Democracy's former colleague expressed wishful wishes. But I'm afraid he'll be disobeyed. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Members, who are supporting the Mitsotakis Government, are you really happy about what we have lived and lived in the past week? Are you pleased with the "declared functioning state", expressed many by the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection? Are you pleased with Mr Petsa's statement, which happens to be here: 'Political protection is at a good level'? "We're building a new Ministry with a skilled attitude, this is Mr. Mitsotakis' statement at the ICU last September. In other words, a new Ministry has been set up and five months is without an organisational framework, without a clear legislative framework, without a law to be applied, because regulatory acts have not been adopted, but only selectively, certain articles, such as special mobilisation, have been used, that is to say, Article 26, where again you have failed to do so when you have implemented it. Because the theme of the druids is very close, in August it happened, in the eighteen parts of Attica. What was the result? It's a failure there, too. Burned 1.4 million acres of land. Since the country's rule has been taken over by Mr. Mitsotakis and his Government, we have many natural disasters that have occurred. It was "JANOS", "NODIA", the fires of summer, "BALLOS" and of course the recent one we are still experiencing, "ELPIS". But Mr. Mitsotakis' little and taste slipped into the muds and snow of "Hellenic". Of course he's locked in. The tragic thing is, of course, that many of our fellow citizens, many of our compatriots, even twenty-four hours in the Attica Road, have been caught. Indeed, trying to change the debate, to overcome it, I would say, to twist positions, to falsify things. And the characteristic - and that, you know, for a favored state is tragic - is to falsify and ignore warnings from scientists and specialist scientific bodies and institutions in your country, either the Observatory or the National Meteorological Service. Even for the start time of the phenomenon you had certain warnings from the scientific world. You are using the argument that snow was unprecedented. But the National Observatory is coming - and I am presenting the posting that has been done and his announcement - and specifically states that in the hundreds of twelve years we have had such great and serious snowfall in even within the capital. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is a very serious issue, and it must concern you and concern the society that is happening today. But you're interested in one thing. You are interested in communication, you are interested in holding successive press conferences in the new Ministry, and you have no prevention policy, no preparation or preparedness of the operational mechanism, and of course you have been able to achieve elementary coordination, much more so for short-term recovery policies. Who's to blame for you? It's someone else's fault. The government, the state at the end, is not the fault of anything. Mr. Mitsotakis has no responsibility. It has a responsibility - you see - that the 'ATIC LEI' may also have a responsibility for the Attica Region, and there are indeed responsibilities there and we do not want to overcome them. I would say to you that the Political Protection Coordination Body in the North of Athens met on Monday, when this phenomenon began on Monday morning. So there are no other responsibilities centrally to the government and the Prime Minister, always someone else is to blame. But responsibility is basically in inadequate and incompetent, I would say, your ultimate state. You are also hiding behind climate change, which no one of course refuses. But it is a very cheap argument about the inadequacy of implementing climate change adaptation policies. It was one of the first to legislate by the SYRIZA government in 2016 and at regional level nothing is implemented. We are taught by our mistakes, Mr Mitsotakis said yesterday to the Ministerial Council. Every time he says we're taught! Unacceptable learning by the government and the Prime Minister is all taught. In application on the ground, when the problem exists, the result is always tragic and a great failure. But of course, your new ministry - and Mr Mitsotakis has said so very strongly - is the so-called 'Aegis' programme, a programme of EUR 1.71 million involving equipment, the supply of international instruments, in fact by planes - which have not yet been done, the Canander from 2025 will be produced - with other scientific instruments, of various kinds of equipment. Of course you have not forgotten about Law 4662, which we voted against and raised in the House the shortcomings, that there are also secret funds. There is a specific article that talks about classified funds in Civil Protection. Everyone who listens to us, Greek and Greek, at the moment, draws some conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, we as SYRIZA are always in the criticism we are making of specific positions. And because you're always trying - and today it started this, and I'm sure that in the other days there will be a set-aside - that what you and we have done, we will responsibly say that after the tragic event in Matti a specific draft law was tabled, which was tabled in the autumn of 2019 in the Greek Parliament, to create the National Civil Protection and Resilience Authority, with effective participation of the scientific world, with an upgraded operational mechanism and, of course, with the head of international prestige through international procedures, based also on the Goldamer Programme, a team of scientists. Then you voted for it, agreed, agreed the CEDEFOP. Your inability is proverbable at all levels. What can I say about the pandemic, in fact, about prices, about education, about small and medium-sized enterprises, about everything! You're talking about investment, and that's what I'd like to close. Look, you have celebrated within the process of "ELPIS", the natural phenomenon of what is happening this week, for large investment in the country, agreements, etc. Of course we have to say: The break-up of our country, when Athens is on international and European headlines, the center of Athens, the situation with snow and the lack of traffic capacity, eh, that's not the best for our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u129	Mrs. Kafantari, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u130	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you. Investors want a stable tax regime, they want rules, they want land registers, they want urban planning, forest maps, to come and invest. But you seem to want opportunity for investors, who come to our home country to win alone, without any added value.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u131	Close, Mrs. Kafantari. It's not polite for me to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u132	That is why we too, for all of this, are voting against the government. We are voting on the motion of censure and call for democratic opposition to a common step towards a political solution for a democratic progressive change. To leave the worst government of postpopulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u133	Mrs Kafantaris, I beg your pardon, but if every Member takes two to two and a half minutes, every three Members deprive a Member of the last seats to speak. I have to protect all my colleagues. What you are doing, with this excessive overrun, is not right at all. It's a warm request. Mr. Antonios Mylonakis has the floor from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, following the broken society, as you have brought it to such a point today, listening here to the debate on the motion of censure against the government, wonders 'where I am in trouble', 'who I have sent in there to represent me'. It is a motion of censure which is being made, Mr SYRIZA, deceased. Now did you realize that this government can no longer pull the car? Haven't you ever understood the first time we were yelling in here, the Greek Solution, that this government is going on the wrong paths? I have already heard why our logic here, PASOK or KINAL, or as Mr Scandalides says, 'we are in favour of the motion of censure, we are voting in favour of it, but we are not calling for elections'. So what does KINAL want? Is there any set-aside in here and no government has been made while no elections have been held? Unless Mr Androlyakis, who we haven't seen yet, is ready to rule, wants to rule the country. And you need to make that clear, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, this thing. Are you in favour of the motion of censure and leaving this bad government, to go to elections, to decide on the Greek people, or do you want a dalle? Because that's the way it is. And don't tell me that there's no election in the pandemic, because you did elections, and you chose your new leader. As for the show you asked to do, I think you were wrong. Amid a parliamentary procedure, everything has been frozen, a proposal is being discussed to leave this bad government and you are asking to be a parliamentary group when the political leaders are speaking? I think we should sit down and think about who we are addressing. We are addressing the Greek people. The Greek people are, I believe, a serious people. He can't take any more. Now let's go to the government. Gentlemen, we have told you since the first time that the ultimate state will be your destruction. You didn't hear us. Kyriakos Velopoulos and the Greek Solution honorably, from the very beginning, made a serious, constructive opposition. We told you what you must avoid. We made suggestions to you. We've been giving you solutions. And instead of listening to us, you wrote us on the oldest of your shoes, you fed the channels so they wouldn't take us off at all, the populace companies to give us 2%, bring you 40%, the KINAL - PASOK to 20%, SYRIZA to 23% and the rest of the missing, play the tripartite game. I don't understand what's going on here. Do you think the Greek people don't understand it? He said Mr. Theodorikos needed time for the Ministry of Climate Change. I have heard the same from Mr Petsa, who says that 'we need time'. What are you? Team coaches and you need time? Your time's up. There's no time to lose. People die every day. Mrs. Gaga's here and I'm going to ask a few questions to answer us. I say it, Mrs. Gaga, do you know why? Why should you answer us because in some hospitals the mortality is too high in the ICU and I'm talking about Alexandra Hospital. I want you to see this thing if you don't know. Mortality in ICUs is unbelievable. They call it doctors, I don't say it. That's how they take us. If it's wrong, let's say it. You don't have any time, gentlemen of the government. Your time is up. The pandemic of what the Greek people have gained is intransigent, authoritarian, terrorism and a Prime Minister who at any time told us about a fairy tale. Until he came to say that these people who are out of ICU are the same as those who are in ICU. So you fooled the Greek people, we reached twenty-three thousand and more dead and we have the highest mortality in all of Europe per million. It's unbelievable! And it's who's to blame? Is it the epidemic of the invaders yet? But we have as many vaccinated as Germany, as much vaccinated as France. What are we, that is, the Greeks? The bad guys? In the economy, have you been out to the world to ask how the average Greek citizen is going to go? Have you seen what's going on with PPC's accounts? Do you know where this thing is going? We told you not to close the lignites. The President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, Mr. Prime Minister, "Don't hang up, brother, lignites" was begging here. We have the autonomy of our current. Why get into adventures? We got into a huge adventure. And now put the lignite factories back in the way. What can we make of it? We buy electricity overpriced by those who produce it with lignite. So all the bad news, all the evils of a Greek people are going to pull it? Ten years Memorandum. This government came here except for SYRIZA, who destroyed everything he found and brought a third memorandum. Yes, you made a third memorandum and now you want to rule again. As time is running out, the Greek Solution says that you are, gentlemen, the government of the ultimate failure, the government that impoverished the Greek people and immersed him even more in economic exaltation. You're blind. You ask for time, only time no longer exists. Greeks are a proud people. You have underestimated him, terrified him, deceived him, made him happy. It's time for you to leave, to tell the Greek people what he wants from here, who wants to rule him. I believe he will not want to be ruled either by PASOK, which has ruled him for so many years and destroyed him, nor by SYRIZA. He'll give a chance to the Greek solution. We've been asking for a four-year change. The state will not continue with the Greek Solution. We will start everything from the beginning, from foreign policy and defence and, above all, from the economy. Be well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u135	I, too, thank Mr Mylonakis in particular for the consistency in time. Ms Maria Apatzidis has the floor for seven minutes, and immediately after the speech the Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs Gaga, will be given. Here, Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a truth has been revealed these days. What was revealed in the brutal weather called "Elpida" is that the private sector is not better than the public sector. And the snow came along with the accuracy and pandemic to destroy the terrible lies of the present government, but also of all the Memorandum Governments, who sold everything without shame, the lie that we supposedly have to render the structures of the public to private individuals, who are supposedly doing better. But what did we see in all three cases? In the pandemic we saw private clinicians do not get dirty with the coronary, at a time when public doctors and nurses fought to the last, with huge physical and mental exhaustion, to save lives. The government did the public hospitals alone, to promote the rest of the morbidity at the CIVID free private clinics, which, in addition, were incapable of gaining prey on the sacrifice of the doctors and nurses of the public and on the losses of the entire Greek people. In fact, what did we see? We saw the supermarket cartels and electricity cartels throwing a valance party, at prices far above the increase in energy costs and raw materials, for the sake of the Energy Exchange established by SYRIZA. And it comes as a third and a special shot of snow. At the same time as the municipalities were trying to keep the streets open, the few-growers who exploit the major motorways, such as Attica Street, did not care to work on snowmobiles, did not despair drivers. In fact, your congressman, Mrs Papakosta, told us it was the people's fault. It's just incapacity, will you tell me? Certainly it is incompetent, but above all it is that oligarchy and lending governments since 2010 have delivered and even hand over important roads to specific companies as a monopoly. So the oligarchs have no reason to spend even a euro in order to work the snowmoon or to disguise drivers, very simply because the purpose of private individuals is the most profit and not the common benefit. Profit, profit, profit. In Mera25, however, we believe that the real hope will come if we learn from the bad weather 'Elpida'. And the lesson is that, in good weather, the fewers make countless money from expensive tolls in bad weather, because they have the power of the monopoly, let drivers suffer. Why? Because they simply can, because they can't spend a single euro on snowmooning, since there will always be a willing Prime Minister to intervene for them. So let's not be fooled. The Mitsotakis Government, which we, as Mer 25, are also being blamed, blamed, is incompetent, but it is even worse. It is guilty, because it leads the public to a planned and planned failure in all areas, health, services, networks, to push them into privatisation and pillaging by the few-government. Hope is not the bad weather, hope is the truth and truth - as MERA25 we will remind you again and again - is the truth that has emerged in these last days, that the fewers in Greece are parasitic, state incomes and hope will come only if fundamental infrastructures, services, networks and goods of general interest are renationalised as soon as possible, which are currently being destroyed in the hands of the parasitic oligarchs. Yeah, we're messing with this government, we're denouncing it. However, we also have to ask SYRIZA's colleagues the question: to leave these few-farmers and be replaced by other few-farmers? To leave, then, a right-wing oligarch government and come a so-called left, a so-called progressive government again of oligarchs? Unfortunately, however, colleagues of SYRIZA do not have a problem with the granting of public wealth either to Mr Latsis or to Mr AKOOR, or to 'TERNA'. You had devaluated our trains - you remember very well - which you finally gave to a company that in Italy is bankrupt. And the airports had given it to you. How do you want this Greek people - explain to me - to trust you again, for the second time? In other words, you have a record that all this was required by the troika and you have given it with a heavy heart, that is, overcoming the delusion of the past, as you have said since the conspiracy. Then the real alternative was delusion. Let me take it. Now you're supposed to be the real alternative. But now is the moment of truth. In 2024 the contract with the ‘Attica Road’ expires. What are you going to do then, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? So, yes, we accuse a government that essentially commands nothing to be done preventatively and simply retrospectively gives compensation to the enclaved, completely out-of-institutional, as a feudal to a subordinate private representative, but compensations which private fewers will take back, through the well-known artifact of the evasive gains. We denounce the government, which during the pandemic, while they died, die twenty-three thousand of our fellow people, does not give money for the ITH and recruitment of doctors and nurses, but gives 4,88 million euros to the "ELLAKOR" of the "Attica Road" for for foregone profits. In other words, we blame a government which has discovered a million-dollar tree for 'FRAPORT', 'AEGEAN'. We are dissatisfied with a government in which Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis makes direct consultations with the President of the Board of Directors of the "ELLAKOPOR" Group of the "Attica Road", which is accidentally also a legal counsel of the Prime Minister himself since the summer of 2019, as his law firm says. We deplore a government that shares a thousand to drown out the right and self-evident demand that the Greek people have: renationalisation of every infrastructure, every network, because the private sector is structurally, intrinsically, failing to manage it, precisely because it does not manage it on the basis of common interest, but - what - the share profit. Yes, we have a government to blame for all these reasons. Since, however, the whole Memorandum Arc - SYRIZA - KINAL - New Democracy - cannot say with us the same proposal, namely the renationalisation of every infrastructure and every network, we are dealing with the whole Memorandum Arc.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u137	Close, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u138	Because as Mera25 we do not want to replace an oligarchal regime with another. Our demand is specific: we want to break with oligarchy, for a democratic future. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u139	And we thank Mrs. Apajidis. Now the Deputy Minister for Health, Mrs Gaga, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u140	Good evening. I will start with a story about the ESS, about how it was in the last ten years, because in the last ten years we have experienced an ESS that has continuously reduced staff, continuously reducing armaments, with the economic crisis, reduced the remuneration of health workers, doctors and we have seen a terrible "haemorrhage" of personnel, particularly young doctors, leaving abroad. So the ESS has not been in good condition for many years. The pandemic found it with less, well, personal, old staff and a few insiders. Someone said before that there was no prevention. I must tell you that, as a doctor in the 'Save' pandemic plan, we were given a pandemic plan in January 2020, when the pandemic had not arrived in Italy, it had not arrived in Europe. The plan was for our own hospital to be the first reference hospital for the 1st D.E. and no one imagined the size of the pandemic that came. Plan was there, but I have to say that the main part was the people who worked in the ESS, who became a team, forgot everything else and worked together, keeping each other together, keeping an eye on each other, keeping the protocols and the first wave went very well. It went very well, because the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis was prevented, because it took steps early on for Lockdown, we didn't have too many cases, and in hospitals we were able to deal with the whole first wave very efficiently, having all the world, colleagues from all the countries abroad, to tell us how well Greece was doing. That was very good. There was an adversary, "Why did you close, why you opened up", but the pandemic was treated extremely well in the first wave. There was a second wave of very heavy, mostly in northern Greece, with vast imports of sick and real difficulties, because hospitals that were built and designed to have thirty pathological diseases suddenly acquired a hundred pathological diseases, which all wanted. There have been huge problems, which have been tackled, that is, second tanks have entered the hospitals, many have gone through second networks. There were deaths? Of course there were deaths. We have never, of course, reached Italy's level. And I heard someone say that Greece has more deaths. Let me just read to you the data in Europe: Poland - and I am talking to you about Poland, I am not talking about Romania, Bulgaria, countries that have four thousand and more deaths per million inhabitants, I am talking about Poland - is a country that has gone too far ahead, has a good health system and has two thousand seven hundred forty-six deaths per million inhabitants. Belgium has two thousand four hundred fifty-four deaths per million inhabitants. Italy has two thousand four hundred four hundred deaths per million inhabitants. England has two thousand two hundred sixty and it is Greece from behind with two thousand and twenty. Yes, there are many, clearly there are many, clearly not most in Europe. And say something. There have been huge steps, that is...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u141	Two thousand two hundred fifty-four, we have, Mrs. Gaga.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u142	All right, all right, I may have the evidence yesterday. Still doesn't change the show, that's the show I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u143	In the last six months...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u144	Let the Minister conclude, Mr President, and Mr Paulakis will restore it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u145	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u146	I would like to say to you, then, yesterday's deaths, because they are indeed many.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u147	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u148	So we have deaths of which an 80% are human beings uninvasive. Also, over sixty persons are over eighty years old. As you can see, a combination of older people who have multiple problems, kidney failures, various problems, old and respiratory infections, is a terrible combination to have deaths. We have a few deaths in younger people. That's what I have to tell you. Of course, I think that for all the people of the ESS, who are really struggling to do the best they can, it is terrible to use micro-political deaths. Let us all see how we can help together, this to do, but to use deaths for political reasons is wrong as politics. I'm sorry to say it, but it's wrong. I believe that the most compact and most important link in the whole treatment of the pandemic is the people of the ERC, who are actually working two years at all times without a break, and that is very important. There was prevention, there was prevention from the outset, that is, there were masks in hospitals, there were means of personal protection with a lot of trouble, with a lot of noise, because they did not exist in many other countries. We had costumes all along, we had masks all along. Was there a fear? Of course, there was fear! It was a new phenomenon that we faced for the first time and of course there was fear. We began to feel better while the pandemic went by and started managing the first patients and went well. So, from there on, I say, there was prevention, there was a plan, and in fact as far as the ESS is concerned, even though we say what has to be done and what has not to be done, five hundred and fifty things were the beds of the units, so much were. The government of Mr.Mitsotakis received them and made them more than twice as much. Staff were hired, too staffed, more than 12 thousand in total, and hospitals came doctors and nurses for the ICU. And you're gonna ask me why we don't get more intensifiers, because we don't get more anesthetics. Simple enough, because we don't have them, because the ICU counts fewer intensifiers than we need right now, and medical specialties aren't something you can press the button and get the other day. Somebody has to plan to have them. So, to have intensifiers, we need to make sure today that we put in a training programme for doctors who are already specialists in another specialty - that takes five years - and that we do them two more years of training so that we can get intensifiers. So there must be a plan. The plan is not that it did not exist in this government, it did not exist in the previous governments. So we're changing the way of specialties. We start a way of connecting the specialties that we produce, the doctors we produce and that we specialize with people's needs. How many anesthetics does the country need? That's how many we have to produce. How many intensifiers does the country need? That's how many we have to produce. That's the plan for specialties. He's not whoever wants to do what he wants, this plan is nowhere in the world. To tell you about the management of the pandemic that I confess I saw it as a doctor and not on the Ministry's side. The management of the crisis now, the snowstorm - if you like - now I saw it from the Ministry's side, and I can tell you this, because a lot of things have been heard. Today a report came out that twenty - twenty hospitals had no access. There was no hospital without access. Indeed, three hundred and twenty acres of “Save” fell. It makes sense, they are large trees, they are pine trees, they break the branches, the trees fell, they fell on a oxygen tube, they were corrected immediately and no patients were at risk. We cut a lot of roads. The "Save" has over four kilometers of road and snowes a lot. And we had previous - and in the past - floods some years ago. There was a man on the internet on a boat four years ago in "Save". So they are things that can happen to severe weather phenomena, they were dealt with and treated quickly. Let me tell you that it has reached oxygen in all the hospitals that needed it and they need it almost every day with the needs for oxygen with the patients with COVID and they have reached all the oxygen loads from either the road - which was not easy - or a boat - that was bad weather and it was not easy - but it was all there. So the bad weather on the Ministry's side was dealt with. He was treated with the team's work, everyone worked. The contact we have on a daily basis with the government of health regions, with all the people who carry whatever it takes to supply hospitals and health centres is daily and the management has been properly managed. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] So I think it is very important - and I will say it again - that there should be a plan and there is one. We need to rely on people and we rely and I need to thank people again in the ESS, because what they really offer every day is important to all of us. To say again that it is very important for all of us to do something when we have strange or very difficult to deal with, and that means that, in order not to have too many cases, we are all careful that we do not get to hospitals, not to get to hospitals in huge numbers. It is also very important, when we have problems, that we arrive in time, because that is a reason for the deaths in Greece. We have people who arrive late. Of course, because you're talking about mortality, I have to tell you that we have mortality in hospitals, and a list of hospital numbers came out, we have hospitals that have eight thousand imports, such as the Salvation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u149	Why don't you bring in more, Mrs. Gaga?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u150	Please, wait a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u151	The monoclonals don't seem to work at 'Omicron', so we don't take any more monoclonals and take antiviral drugs we have. Studies show this for monoclonals, we've already taken quantities from the new PFIZER pills and we'll have them soon and they got permission so it's very good that we've already made the order. I would like to reply to two other things here. I heard you talking about deal for the vaccines. I am sorry, but the deals for vaccines are European agreements with an agreed price for all of Europe and agreed doses percentage, depending on the population, for all of Europe. But talking about deal for the vaccines is at least insane. I am sorry to tell you, but the vaccines were given a specific price and a specific quota for all of Europe. This mechanism is very important, as is the RRF mechanism we will use, so that we can have better health for all and better access for all of us everywhere, throughout Greece and with emphasis on the urgent treatment of people everywhere in Greece. These are all the plans that the ministry has and puts forward. We had already started training, which, of course, stopped because of the great wave of pandemic. Before I close, I would like to thank all the staff of the HR from this Step. We're here, and we'll be here. We even arrived on a requisition to help where there were no posts and people to help the ERC people. We'll be here for whatever it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has now requested the floor. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I heard you before you spoke, but I think you said half the truth. What was the truth you said, perhaps in a crisis of honesty? That during the memorandum period the public health system had a declining course, was abandoned and was the result of the first two governments in the first and second Memorandums. Yes or no? So I invoke your own personal experience. Has this downhill course been overturned, since SYRIZA took place, with concrete steps? Did they open up structures that you closed? Did people who had been persecuted come back? Is it a hundred and twenty tons? Did the uninsured people find access to hospitals when you refused it to them? This is what people remember, because it is good to compare with the past, but even better to compare it with the previous ones. You talked about recent snowfall and its management. Really, the only problem was the Salvation? The Mediterranean was open? How many hospitals are there in the Mediterranean? Was Kifisia open? But even though Mr. Patoulis was photographed with the beasts, he was supposed to have given 500,000 euros to rent them directly, not even with rough competitions, he was missing. And the worst is - and this has to be heard in the House - that he pursued discriminatory policy and did not go to mayors, when they were not his like, to open the streets, as he did in Halandri. And the ringers of the district started from Vrilyssia, Pendeli, and when they arrived in Halandri they stopped and came back. This is Mr. Patolis, this is Mr. Patolis of your resignation, who is now accusing him! So I ask you why the medical status has now left here and you have started the tricks: the averages of the dead per million, to which you referred, are from the beginning of the pandemic, and they are not in the last few months, to which we are always first or second. For this mortality, therefore, you have responsibilities, because twenty-two months now you have done nothing essential with all that you have described. So while you have recognised that doctors are being given up from hospitals, that they are leaving in training, and that the subsidiary cannot stand, why did you not increase the wages of these people? Because your priority is not the public health system. Why refuse first-line doctors and nurses to join the heavy and unhealthy? Why didn't you do all this? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There's an answer. And you know very well that the deals that took place are about tests, moleculars, rapids. You were humiliated by the mayors by the prices they made at the forum with the agreements they made and which you were unable to make. Because your plan is one: Open space for private entrepreneurs. What can we do? The public common good of health wants a public system, which you cannot serve, because you are dogmatic neoliberals.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Skourletis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u155	I shall conclude, Mr President. And with regard to micropolitics with the dead, you should address this to the Prime Minister, who said last summer about the fires in Evia that we now count burnt acres when we counted burnt and coffins in the Eye. So who's doing a tombble? That is, for everyone to know what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u156	The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Giannakopoulou, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u157	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u158	Madam Minister, Mrs Giannakopoulou will also speak and I will give you the floor to answer a whole question. Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u159	Madam Minister, it is incomprehensible to have a hundred dead every day. It is incomprehensible for a village to be lost every day and on the government's side to actually pass a message of reassurance. Compared with other countries, we are currently overtaken by Spain and France. We all remember what happened to these countries. But all this happened in those countries, when the vaccine had not been taken, and we now have the vaccine, Minister, and you are giving a message of complacentness and relaxing the measures once again. Once again you give the message that we are in the last mile. Do you remember who said that? The country's prime minister. So we're telling you that unfortunately the pandemic is still here and that you've made a lot of mistakes. A lot of reassurance on the part of the government, many oligopoies, great inefficiency. You know what all you've done is actually in these two and a half years? Derogating supply contracts, without any control and any accountability. You told us, Minister, about recruitment. But you did not tell us that this staff is subsidiary. Recruitment, when are you going to do? Do you want to give us an answer? The excess mortality, which is recorded daily in our country, is a result of the enormous disparities between the centre and the periphery. What are you going to do about them? What are you going to do with the primary health care that you were too late to incorporate into a vaccination program? You have responsibilities! You have made very big mistakes and unfortunately once again you are unrepentant and are giving a message of relaxation, as the Minister responsible, Mr Ploris, has said, with the relaxation of measures in the past few days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, the reality is much worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u161	Madam Minister, Mr Brutsi has also asked for the floor. Then, if you want, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, if you'll excuse me, but the ministers are talking to each other. Where's the list coming from?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u163	I understand you, Mr Colleague, but there has been an agreement on the parliamentary representatives of all the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u164	I said that to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u165	The agreement is, if they ask for the floor, to have it for three minutes. Parliamentary representatives of your parties are and you must accept that. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Following on from the questions which have been raised and because the debate that has been taking place, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is of particular interest, especially in matters of pandemic, but also in matters relating to snow, I, Minister, take this opportunity and would like you to repeat more specifically and answer three questions, which I consider to be very critical for the debate, as has been developed by colleagues from the other parties and also by the parliamentary representatives. First, I want you to tell us, and with the validity of your status as a doctor and as Minister, how many IDs in 2019 and how many are today. Second question: What is the number of medical staff hired to hospitals all this critical period from 2019 until today? Thirdly, because a lot of ink was spilled on it, I would like to ask you whether, during the critical period of these two days, patients had access to hospitals. Mr President, these three questions I wanted to ask the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u167	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. The numbers for the units were already told by Mr. Vlass and we hear them every day. It was five hundred and fifty-seven to be exact in 2019 and is a thousand hundred today, with the possibility that they may even increase because of the MFFs. It is clearly more and the staff in hospitals are much more. Of course, it is a place that is mostly permanent doctors and several subsidiary agents, because the procedures of permanent staff, as you know, last much longer, that is to say, recruitments are much easier to do at a time of particularly high need with the post of assistants. The permanent positions are now being proclaimed and we are changing the criteria, so that they can be announced, put an end to procedures more quickly, that is to say we are turning them from healthcare to hospitals so that the hospitals can finish them within a very short period of time. Today we have crises that have not taken place since 2016 and 2014, to give you the understanding. It is therefore very important that we change the way of the crises. Accessibility was found in all hospitals, the on-call was normally made in all hospitals. Let me tell you that on Tuesday fourteen hemorrhages arrived at the "Lacto" and along with the on-site hemorrhaging was normally done, as was scheduled, so it was done everywhere. And hospital supplies were also made everywhere, so there was no real health problem or any serious problem with hospitals these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u169	We are now continuing with Mr Manosso Voloudakis. Mrs Papanatsiou, Mr Kallianos, Mr Constantopoulos, will then continue and the Minister, Mr Varvitsiotis, will also speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, although the motion of censure we are debating has been tabled on the occasion of the management of bad weather, it has been made with reference to the whole policy that has been conducted over the last two and a half years. One wonders why the motion of censure was tabled. To get the government down? It's not falling. We all know that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will support the government. Should we discuss all our things? But it hasn't been two months since we had the five-day budget debate we discussed it all. We all hear them again, second time, and the audience and people who listen to us. So for some other reason the motion of censure has been made. It was done for KINAL to be twisted, because whatever decision it took, it's true, some would be sad, either way. The truth, too, is that KINAL was indeed led to a mistake. Because saying 'I am voting for the motion of censure, but I do not want elections' is an obvious contradiction and it gives a very bad message, ladies and gentlemen. It gives a message that while making a new start, you move on the basis of the impressions and that's not good for the place. Now we're going to the point. The reference to the motion of censure was, of course, the management of bad weather, where major mistakes have actually been made. Because it is inconceivable that drivers are locked in the Attica Street. It is incomprehensible what has been done on other major roads in the Lefkanope and it was unacceptable that so many thousands of households in Attica remain without power, although we must say that progress has been made in this area especially in relation to previous bad weather. But the Prime Minister has already apologized to the citizens for what has happened. Of course others should apologise and not hide behind the courageous attitude of the Prime Minister. The dear Minister of Interior, Mr Petsas, today, sent a message to self-government, the region and the municipalities. And of course it was the occasion of what happened in Attica. A message that was very meaningful for those who see it, because it calls on local authorities to exercise their responsibility. But, as you can judge bad weather management, I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber or in this country who believes that this management, good or bad, especially with the follow-up that I have mentioned, is a reason to stand or fall down on a government. We therefore need to talk about general matters, because yesterday you raised the question of the economy. What's the picture in the economy for the last two and a half years? This year, after the pandemic, we go for 7% of GDP increase and we appreciate it less than the European Union predicts. We have a 3% reduction in unemployment, we have an increase of 19 billion in deposits, with 55% of this increase being household deposits. And how did that happen, ladies and gentlemen? They were because a consistent economic policy, which the Greek people have asked for, was followed by a policy of reducing taxes, tax reductions and contributions and, of course, this was also followed by a policy of strengthening the economy during the pandemic with EUR 43 billion. Is everything all broken up? No, we have the problem of accuracy - it is a fact - with the energy crisis. The first steps have been taken here and we have more to do. What do you suggest? You only have to suggest that they are recipes for the 1980s, that we cut money to give the world, no adaptation to today's data. We're supposed to be the ones that are repetitive liberals, and you're the ones who made social policy. Watch out now where your account collapses. We, then, are the unscrupulous liberals cutting off taxes and getting the economy started, but we are not cutting off the benefits that you have paid and which you think is the whole thing about economic policy. The Minister for Labour has told you, Mr Hatzidakis, a moment ago. In this day even these allowances have increased: the housing allowance of 34%, the child's allowance of 14%, the disability benefits of 12%. I don't want to go on any further. Even in the days of this government, speaking of the general totals, the international position and security of the country were strengthened. I won't say much. I will only remind you of the defensive agreement with France, which you have voted against, the market for the Rafalis and the French wells, who change the data in our region and ensure the sovereignty of our country, but also the success that our Government has shown so far in managing immigration, with 90% reduction in illegal immigration flows. "Have you achieved everything in this area?" You'll tell me. No, we still have a lot to do. Because I am one of those who say that asylum should also be granted under stricter conditions and that we need to find the way to manage and what happens to those who illegally enter the country and are still here. But what government can better handle this case? Who can correct, if you want, and any uncertainties so far? The ones who took the first steps. Time doesn't allow me to talk about pandemic stuff. Minister Gaga said so a little while ago. I will just say that yes, indeed, in the first year of the pandemic, we have been pioneers in Europe and the second we have retreated to some points. Why have we retreated? What's changed? The level of our vaccination in relation to Europe. And when you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have long followed a policy of closing eyes to the anti-invasives, you have no right today to come and wonder why things are supposedly wrong. For all these reasons, I will vote against SYRIZA's proposal of distrust. Many people say mistakes are made, but we support the New Democracy government because if SYRIZA came, it would be a disaster. That's not what I'm saying. This is not why, although there is no doubt that the memory of SYRIZA is sad. I'm thinking differently. I support first of all, because its balance of policy up to now is positive, but also something else. Because I am convinced that, as far as corrections are concerned, this government, which is supported by the patriotic centre-right party of the New Democracy, is the one that can best lead our country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u171	Thank you. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure towards the Government of New Democracy does not simply point out its inadequacy, but comes to strengthen the voice of the citizens with a huge: 'It goes no longer'. The motion of censure of the SYRIZA expresses the disapproval of citizens and society of a government which only interests it is propaganda working properly. Everything goes well, always shifting responsibilities to others. For a long time now, we have been living in a dystopia, with our country counting over five hundred life losses in the last few days. Greece is twice above the European Union's average in losses proportional to its inhabitants and amidst a political undermining of the National Health System. At the same time, last week, we have once again witnessed a truly unprecedented chaos: thousands of our fellow citizens excluded without food, without water, in the snow, for many hours. Not in Pelion, but on main highways in the capital city, people have been exposed to cold, without the necessary and the Governing Representative has rushed to declare that Katechaki and Marathon Avenue are not in the state's responsibility. It's disgusting, gentlemen of the government. So cynicism and mockery that words are not enough to describe it. You stated as government that the meteorologists had not warned you of the cruelty and precise time of evolution of the phenomenon. You're all disgusting, gentlemen! And the Director of the National Meteorological Service himself disguises you. You are so familiar with transferring responsibilities to all others except your “excellent” Government, that you do not hesitate at every crisis to work science, first for the pandemic, now and in the weather. Incredible things! It's obvious you're not interested in citizens, for any welfare. The constant stress is communication. It's the same stress that summer brought you to declare that apnea favours the spread of fire and makes the work of firefighting difficult. It would be funny if we weren't talking about man, if we weren't talking about human lives. Unacceptable statements showing you're in an ongoing denial of reality. You're dangerous. This tragic situation is even coming in the middle of an extreme rise in inflation and accuracy, a record of 5.1% in December, and from what ELSTAT informs us, it leads Genarris to 6%. So heavy in the family budgets too. Simply for the majority of households basic goods and foodstuffs, with social cohesion being threatened once again by your unspeakable policy. We have been warning the government for months that if it continues to monitor the phenomenon as a commentator, this rise will turn into a regime. The precision wave continues uncontrolled by recording record levels higher than 2011, with huge increases in natural gas, electricity, heating oil, fuel and basic foods, with appreciations ranging from 5% to 20%. The government, however, does not fall. He suffers from the liberal syndrome of the trochomont. At first he was talking about SYRIZA's disaster, then he invested in the transientity of the phenomenon, and in the end it ended up being an international problem that will be cut off. But instead, a permanent hustler, and the citizens in the meantime live in fear and insecurity. This is the state that has created the status of Mr Mitsotakis and his government. The previous speaker in the New Democracy, however, sees the economy going well and asks us about SYRIZA's proposals. SYRIZA has submitted proposals, and accurate and costly, for each of the above questions, from the prescribing of tests and the strengthening of the National Health System, until the reduction of excise duties and the increase in minimum wages. The government refuses to discuss these proposals. We're no longer asking you to listen to us. We ask you to leave to implement a reconstruction programme for the state and strengthening of society. Two years now we have witnessed an unprecedented collapse of the main pillars of the state. The golden pound, promised to the citizens by the New Democracy Government, proved to be polluting. There is no scope, a situation, a crisis that the 'perfect' government has been called upon to face, which has been successfully crowned. An entire society lives in a permanent insecurity and fear regime, watching a cynical government staff numb to shake her finger, from the health crisis and its tragic management, which led to thousands of lives being lost, some of which could have been saved if the government were not caught in its neoliberal obsessions. From the accuracy and lack of intervention for its retention, which leads society to massive inability to access basic goods, electricity, heating, food supplies. From the fires, the floods, the snow, the direct assignments. From the gruesome doctrine that your government has only rights and no obligation on citizens. Enough with this dystopia! Enough about the New Democracy pandemic! Enough with the permanent bad weather Mitsotakis in our lives! It doesn't work anymore. People are asking to be disembodied by you and SYRIZA will become the voice of this world. It's time for you to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mr. Callianos has the floor and Mr. Konstantopoulos follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure tabled by Mr Tsipras did not in any way surprise us either in this Chamber or in the public. I think that, after what Mr Tsipras said yesterday, and also from the positions I have seen here by SYRIZA colleagues up to now, we are embodied in the confession of the political deadlock to which they have come, and that is precisely what reflects, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of distrust, with which they are attempting to show the government their own social isolation. You are at a dead end, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - and I will explain the reason - and your political deadlock is absolute and is confirmed by your move, a move of impression, but in reality a move perfectly predictable, after the latest demographic findings. But it is not a good advisor to politics to prosper and behave from the polls, because it is clear to all of us that they led you to this move, that is, while at the same time trying to convince you that any polls and "flatted" as you like to say, are unreliable, not realizing that your actions and panic testify exactly the opposite. We thank you, however, for moving on to this act of parliamentary scrutiny, it is very important that, while your objective is to establish the so-called unrealisticness of society and government, all you will achieve is to confirm your own misrepresentation with Greece today. It is of great symbolic importance that you table, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this motion of censure, when in the House the development law was discussed and in the Maximos Mansion, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis had a meeting with the head of one of the largest financial institutions in the world for an even high investment, like the ones you loved to bring back then. At the same time, when markets, investors and partners invest in Greece, you in SYRIZA decide to invest politically where you know best. And what do you know how to do better? Investment in the division and misery of micropolitical controversy, promoting meaninglessness in the face of truly important issues, thus reflecting your failure to place politically on critical issues. Parenthesis. Yesterday I was on a channel and he was a colleague of yours. I won't say his name, there's no need to hear it. He said that "it is your fault, Mr. Mitsotakis, New Democracy, the government, all of you, for the hundreds of ten deaths a day" etc. So in the question of what you would do, so that we didn't have a hundred and ten deaths a day and had twenty deaths a day or even better to have zero deaths a day, as you can see, he couldn't answer anything. He was messing with his tongue, trying to make some arguments, etc. So you should also have suggestions and know that it is not Mr. Mitsotakis' fault that we have a hundred deaths a day. From the first moment on, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been trying to show you how important it is to be vaccinated. From the first moment on, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been trying to communicate with the message and the particular government and the relevant ministers that it is good to have this gift that science has given us, to go to hospitals and be vaccinated. There's no other way, there's no other way. Now the antiviral pill is on its way. It will also help, but it is good to be vaccinated, and not to step on two boats, as you pressed until first. So on your own goal, dear friends of SYRIZA and anguish for two and a half years now is to blur the great reform effort that takes place in Greece and to keep the country's economic, investment and geopolitical upgrading going on the ground. After all, Mr Tsipras' abhorrence that a few months ago in the House was talking about a small Greece - if you remember well - during the debate on the historical Greek-French agreement is confusing the way you practice politics, the way you govern and today you are fighting. It explains a lot about your current attitude. When you think your country is small and therefore weak you are treating as you are today. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis instead believes deeply in a Greece with national self-confidence, strong at all levels, and that is what we are trying to do every day, to become stronger and to be a strong country in Europe that belongs to the hard core of Europe, a country really with reforms right that goes through steps forward. And it is this faith that is translated into actions that permeate all areas of politics. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the fact that this motion of censure has been tabled to the Government. The occasion was the bad weather that hit Attica, but for the management of which the Prime Minister himself apologized for the mistakes that were made, a word "excuse" unknown to you. Four and a half years you've ruled, we haven't heard an apology for some mistakes you've made. I won't say you did it all wrong. But for the mistakes you made an apology, there was not a minister coming out to say, one of your operatives, one of your MPs, the Prime Minister himself then, the former Prime Minister. We cannot, therefore, have examples in front of us that you have failed in many areas when you have ruled and that a man should not come out of you to say: 'I'm sorry, we made a mistake'. But that's our difference. We're sorry. You're saying that she's gone with the apology. Fear not to lose your friendship, so you did not apologise then to many examples. Mrs. Kafantaris gave me, if I'm not mistaken...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u175	Eventually, did EMY anticipate the bad weather?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u176	I'll tell you. That's what I mean, Mr. Skourlet. Mrs Kafantaris gave a painting of the National Observatory of Athens, who said it was not one of the most important bad times in the last 100 years. It would be a good thing if Mrs Kafantaris were to deal with meteorology as well. Like me, I'm not gonna play doctor or legal or engineer, it would be nice for others not to play meteorologists. But be careful now. As far as the elements of the weather are concerned, this bad weather has indeed been one of the strongest times in the last ten years. Within less than an hour and a half, snowstorming in the center of Athens exceeded twenty centimeters. Bad times in the past surpassed fifteen to twenty centimeters in forty eight hours. This bad weather gave a thirty - inch snowstorm to the Constitution within less than a half to two hours. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. So you understand that we are talking about a very strong weather. I must also tell you that, in fact, twenty-four hours before the weather began, all the data showed that bad weather would start at noon Monday and not in the early morning hours. Twelve hours before the beginning of bad weather the models changed to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u177	That's where you lost it in the exotic?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u178	Let me finish and you'll understand exactly what I mean. Let me explain. That's what I'm trying to do, and I want you to respect what I'm doing right now. Very few hours before the beginning of bad weather they changed the models and indeed everything was harmonized in a fact that this bad weather would start early in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u179	Twelve hours ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u180	Ten to twelve hours ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u181	Isn't it 12 hours to prepare the state mechanism?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u182	I have explained that this is a very strong weather, a bad time for which we will be talking many years later, with many centimeters of snow rolling not only in the center of Athens, but to Voula.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u183	Mr. Calliano, the meteors will tell Mr. Fumello later.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u184	It is very important, however, to explain why it is the matter of the day. Let me 30 more seconds. So I explained how important bad weather was. It's been so hard on snow, Mr. Skourlet, and I've been telling many of my interviews lately...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u185	In 2002, wasn't she fierce? In 2004, wasn't she fierce?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u186	Was 2008 greater or less?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u187	From who?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u188	Mr. Calliano, you're not here on meteorological grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u189	But he won't let me finish. It's been so hard on bad weather.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u190	In 2008...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u191	But please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u192	Let me finish, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u193	Mr. Polakis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u194	Was 2008 greater or less?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u195	It was a long time ago because, Mr Polakis, at least we had the same snowstroke heights. So we're right about what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u196	You can call them unless you tell them the questions about the weather.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u197	All right, I'm done with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u198	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u199	It was so intense the snowfall that I'm telling even a grouper to have on every street in the city again would create problems. It was very bad weather.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u200	Good, we get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u201	Turning off to say this. I'm talking nine and a half minutes. I'm hanging up here. Thank you very much. I just wanted to explain why there were too many titles written, and I was very sad at what I read, that Callian throws them to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u202	Well, that's your thing. Now, don't get the meteorological stuff involved with politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u203	Wait a minute, I answer the Greek citizens and I answer the government. Callianos Yannis honors the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u204	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u205	Listen to me, it's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u206	But it's all important.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u207	Callianos Yiannis does not expose the New Democracy. Callianos Yiannis is fighting for the New Democracy, because Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a leading figure and we must all be next to him. Be well. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u208	Now that Mr. Callian has come down, ask him whatever you want. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the SYRIZA's proposal of distrust against the government has been tabled and discussed following a failed crisis management. An early announcement, I would say, of bad weather revealed the sluggishness, frustration, inefficiency and inefficiency of the government. We, the PASOK, the Change Movement, state our negative assessment to the government not only for the bad management of the bad weather but also for the bad management of the pandemic, the bad management of the accuracy of all households. I should like to mention here the heavyly affected sector of artists and related professions in culture, a sector which is severely affected and which expects substantial support from the government. Ladies and gentlemen, that we will vote on the motion of censure to the government does not mean that we are associated with the Qualifying Opposition that it eats and contradicts, which did not see elections a while ago, and indeed because of the pandemic it said that there are no elections. After a while, of course, several days ago, he asks for elections with multiple cases and a hundred deaths per day. So take your conclusions. In conclusion, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the New Democracy, I would say that you should make a political fund among you, rate yourselves for Eye, for Mandra, for "Medea", for the recent summer fires, for the images of shame on the Attica Road and after you have made a fund, announce the extent to which you have put yourself. Let me remind you here that, from 1987 until today, no government has fallen from a motion of censure. And let this be held. Gentlemen of the government, the ultimate state you're evangelizing, I'd say it's sunk in the snow. You had an early update from the NYPD. What didn't you have? You didn't have an operational plan, a response plan. Your actions are delayed and not centrally coordinated. A overconcentration, a duplication of responsibilities and of course a transfer of responsibilities. We've heard apologies. Sustained. But it's not enough. Why? Because they don't work. Indeed, the responsibilities of the company that currently manages the Attica Road are enormous. These responsibilities were also correctly sought. Thousands of our fellow citizens are trapped, troubled, compromised. It is time, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss all the major projects in the country from the outset, the operation, exploitation, financial model and toll policy in these projects paid by the Greek taxpayer. Many problems on main roads within the stadium. The responsibility of the region and of the municipalities is enormous. However, it did not respond to the criticality of the situation with closed LEAs on the Attica Road without any control of the entrances of the Attica Road, any compliance with the CAS. What do the relevant ministers say about the bad weather action plan that EYY announced before? We're still waiting for their answer. Ladies and gentlemen, in each region, there is an institutionalised civil protection agency to deal with natural phenomena. The result is one wonders about what plan was drawn up, what strategy was implemented. It is essential, ladies and gentlemen, that we discuss the future of local self-government from the outset, in the middle of the climate crisis. What does decentralization mean? What does that mean, finally? It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that the experience of the February 2021 snowfall has not been exploited by the TEDO and so thousands of our fellow citizens have left without power in adverse conditions this year. I would say that, in the evaluation of things, there is no prevention at all. The red tape's going well. We at the Change Movement, at PASOK, proposed that the Ministry of Climate Change acquire a substantial role, responsibilities, resources, staff. Upgrade fire-fighting equipment. There must be a pitiful and not a customer structure. Upgrade civil protection plans on the basis of best European practices. I would remind you that in order to subjugate the cables which were the responsibility of the DEDDIE, the relevant Minister, Mr Screkas, said last year in Parliament that priority will be given to subjugation in the north of Attica. What's he answering today? What's the timeline? Is it in or out? Or is he waiting for the resources from the Recovery Fund? Here it should be stressed that the Government of the Recovery Fund gives 60 million for upgrading the city network and 40m euros for forest land. Of course these amounts should be multiple according to needs. Pandemic: We are eighteenth on vaccination pan-European. We send the wrong message that the pandemic has been overtaken, when the country mourns a hundred dead a day. There are still loose protocols when these European countries have been tightened up. The position of PASOK, the Change Movement, is strict Covid Pass everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the accuracy, which exacerbates inequalities, that affects the vulnerable social strata which have a significant share of their income in expenditure such as heating, food and fuel. Inflation in our country is 5.1%, when in the Eurozone it is 4.9%. As a result, consumers are charged with significant increases in gas, heating oil, fuel, electricity. Mr Ministers, all European governments have designed direct and long-term policies to upgrade accuracy. Greece, however, found itself unprepared. And your responsibilities are enormous. We, the Change Movement, the PASOK, have proposed that energy prices be retained, targeted and not horizontal benefits with social and income criteria, of course with a continuous assessment by the regulatory authorities. Also, reducing taxes and VAT on basic food and energy goods, utilizing the resources of the Recovery Fund to diffuse energy from renewable sources by promoting energy autonomy, as well as an immediate increase in the minimum wage, as all European countries do. We're talking about demographics with a minimum wage of 633. What new couple can fall in love, what new couple can be envisioned as being able to live in this country, make a family? It is an issue that should come to a debate in the House and, in fact, immediately. Gentlemen of the Government, your ineffective management in multiple crises experienced by Greek society leads us to vote in favour of SYRIZA's motion of censure. In no case does it mean that we give SYRIZA and an alibi to the SYRIZA. We were commanded by two hundred and seventy thousand citizens for autonomy with clean, fertile, programmed opposition. And that is what we will do consciously. I have heard Mr Voloudakis say that on the one hand we are voting on reproach, on the other hand we do not want elections, that we are in contradiction. That's good. Why is it positive? Because we don't follow anyone. We are autonomous and we have our own policy. And that's what credits us. As far as Mr Mylonakis is concerned, who said about Mr Androylakis that he did not see him, I will tell him that he will see him and listen to him. Maybe being indestructible is annoying. We're on our way. PASOK returns, the democratic party returns. We will be here to solve the problems and give these solutions that Greek society needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u210	Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, we must thank the SYRIZA Members for the proposal of distrust of the government, because we are given the opportunity not only to reiterate the Prime Minister's apologies to the citizens who have been afflicted and to assure them that we are doing everything possible to compensate them for this suffering for the first time in history, but because we are also given the opportunity to make a comprehensive assessment of government policy. Mitsotakis Government has been managing a number of crises since the day it was elected: national crises, immigration crises, health crises, climate change crises. And in the face of the management it has done in these crises, our opposition judges us to be inadequate. But I would really like to ask if we were inadequate, what would be different from what we did in the area of safeguarding the security of the country and foreign policy. I know she voted against all our initiatives. He voted against the extension of territorial waters, voted against the establishment - for the first time in our history - of EOZs both with Italy and with Egypt. We know that she voted against the defensive agreements with France and the United States. We know that he voted against the supply of critical equipment, Rafalis and wells, which protect the Aegean and protect our air space. And he voted against all of this, in essence, by saying that he would pursue a different policy, that is, a policy of what? Submittency? A policy in which our national laws would not become part of European policy? That the country should not face an existing threat of both military and diplomatic armour? That he shouldn't find alliances? That it should not solve problems, which it has been carrying out for decades in its foreign policy, in order to convey the image of a safe country, a country that believes in itself, a country that has been playing its stabilising role in the region? Is that what you'd do? I do not want to believe that you are making a motion of censure against your own failures and bad positions in this House. But, unfortunately, you will hear the criticism of this attitude of the irresponsible opposition. Because when we consider a government as the 'worst government' as a whole - as your Chief said - 'which has passed since the Cultivation to date' then we will have to see how we manage all these crises. And Greece managed to build the image of the serious, reliable and assets of a European partner, to create alliances that it had not had in the past, to speak and to be in alignment with countries which you considered to be neo-nazi or whatever their governments were, to find solidarity with the refugee crisis in Evros, to have turned Greek-Turkish relations into a Euro-Turkish problem, to have made our country a major contender for the reversal of the difficulties that come from pandemic. May I remind you that the Recovery Fund was launched by an initiative by the Greek Prime Minister with seven other colleagues? Let me remind you that from the Recovery Fund and the negotiation we have made, Greece has been won, as much as any other European Union country, why has it taken more money per capita than any other country? Let me remind you that our initiative, what your Chief, former Prime Minister Tsipras, made fun of in the digital certificate and said 'never happens', was the basic tool with which tourism was moved last year and on which we have based our hopes for a very good tourist year, the one that comes? So what would you do? What else would you do? If it were the logic of 'we would not do any of this', then of course your criticism toward us is not only confronted with the logic and reality, but also with the sense of Greek citizens. And, ladies and gentlemen, because I have listened a little while ago to doubt what we have achieved and in the area of investment, I will tell you that Mr Frangoyannis will not have the opportunity to mention that only through efforts to integrate strategic investments through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the figures are overwhelming. Over the past five years - SYRIZA has ruled - all of these investments, as strategic investments that came to the country, were EUR 1,300,000. From July 2019 to December 2021, EUR 4,800,000 investments have been integrated through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs channel, and at the moment EUR 7,000,000 investments are under consideration. This is the different policy that we are doing, and that is why any criticism of high tones, which you want to do to protect your low-popular opinionary advantage vis-à-vis KINAL, will actually lead you once again to face up to your own inability, to plan, to pursue an international policy that will bring roots and results. Ladies and gentlemen, I am saying all this because I really feel that we have some challenges and climate change ahead of us of unprecedented tension. Only last year hundreds of dead people were mourned in Belgium, Germany, by the killing floods. Two years ago, there were thousands of dead in France from an unprecedented heat wave. And we are experiencing extreme natural phenomena. For these extreme natural phenomena we must shield our country in the best possible way. And I would remind you here that, for the first time in our European policy, we have so much money to make available on equipment necessary for civil protection. From the Recovery Fund EUR 1,700,000 will go to policies related to climate change and the shielding of civil protection, and another EUR 11,000,000 will go to energy upgrades for parallel climate change reversal policies. It is a huge sum, which I am sure that if we let SYRIZA manage it, unfortunately, neither would there be any result. Ladies and gentlemen, we sometimes need to have a mean political speech. The unorthodox opposition cries do not fit either in the era or in the emotion or in the crisis that the average Greek citizen sees before him, as well as the European citizen. I was in Strasbourg this weekend at the conference on the future of Europe. That is where we discussed the issues of a greener Europe. We have heard the recommendations of the citizens, and I have one thing to say to you through this wide dialogue of European institutions and European citizens, that many of these recommendations made today by the citizens, the Mitsotakis Government, have already taken the lead and adopted them. And we will continue to be at the forefront of tackling, not only the challenges of climate change, but above all of the armoring of what we have always believed as a patriotic party, the armouring of our country, the armouring of our country as a player in the wider region, and of course the armoring and coercion of Greece on solid foundations within the European Union, not by questioning the European path, but by contributing to the European path, so as to be a path that guarantees a better future for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u212	Mr Panaghi Kappatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the motion of censure tabled by the chief and the members of the Staff Committee is a very serious parliamentary procedure. Constitutionally, institutionally and essentially, Parliament's confidence in the government is confirmed or withdrawn at the end of the anticipated work. It is therefore expected that the parliamentary forces that make up this House the political position within the relevant procedure will be prudent, but also honest, as to what is intended to emerge from this debate. What does SYRIZA want anyway to show with this move? The fragmentation of the responsibilities of the civil protection chain raised by recent bad weather? Is the problems that arise reasonably during the management of the COVID-19 pandemic? But we both have timely and direct answers. We do not hide the errors under the rug, but we evaluate them by redefining our strategy whenever conditions require it. We are not ignoring that malfunctions exist. But we're here to solve them. This is our deepest qualitative difference. At the same time as recognizing our own mistakes, we are rushing to correct them immediately, we see SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras remain irreparable. How can a political force which attempts to resolve its inner-party problem by means of the parliamentary procedure of the motion of censure? How else can the political leader who sees this debate be described as an opportunity to resolve his internal disengagement? Questions are obviously rhetorical, since Greek citizens know well. It is for this reason that the experience of the period 2015- 2019, a period that you have ruled, you have been judged and measured. Citizens now have the opportunity to compare not only programmes or election promises, but the result of a government experience that we fortunately have left behind. It's not a mistake that anyone who does nothing is wrong. The Government of New Democracy headed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis neither hides nor resurrects, nor refuses to admit any weaknesses and apologizes for them, an apology that Greek citizens still expect from you, Mr. Tsipras, and it seems that they will wait for much longer. Ladies and gentlemen, in the thought of SYRIZA colleagues, the motion of censure that has tabled to be the opportunity to overcome any pressure from public opinion investigations, may seriously believe that we have forgotten so quickly or so easily their mark that in the summer of 2019 the public rejected them. Whatever they may think, it does not rebut our responsibility to explain what we have done to date, how we plan to complete the current parliamentary term and how our fellow citizens can see, compare and decide when the poll time comes. In our own reading we have been faced with two central challenges. The first concerns the pandemic and the management that we were called upon to do together with the European and international context. By imposing the necessary containment and social distances we have managed to shield and strengthen the National Health System. With the medical, nursing and administrative staff exaggerating ourselves in our great joint effort, we kept the system upright. Then the advent of the vaccines enabled us to optimize the restriction, but also the happy ending of the pandemic. At the same time, it brought us before an historic obligation: to plan, organise and implement the necessary and ambitious vaccination programme. Any problems that we have encountered in individual cases have not affected to a minimum the success of the project. After all, the participatory logic that we introduced into the operation "ELLERIA" can only confirm the maturity with which the majority of Greek citizens responded and still responded to the process. The second challenge concerns the economy. The Government of New Democracy since its creation has attempted and implemented the reduction of taxes and social security contributions. In order to support households and businesses in the context of the effects of the pandemic, we have made EUR 43 billion of relief measures. It adds policies such as suspensions of tax obligations, reduction of insurance contributions by three units, and the mid-term reduction of HPAI by 22%. Having today fully and more quickly recovered from the majority of European countries the lost territory of the economy, we are returning to a path of strong long-term development, a development that is of benefit to all Greek citizens. However, the responsibility of public policy is not limited and should not be limited to the areas mentioned above. Since July 2019, a number of interventions have been undertaken in relation to the sensitive workplace of work, social security and the welfare state. With the Labour Protection Act, we anticipated the digital working card. Many have rushed to question our intentions. Reality has devastated them, having proved to be an important innovation that shields workers' rights for their working hours and is currently being implemented, a basic measure of social justice and transparency that responds effectively to the challenge of dealing with undeclared and undeclared work. At a time when SYRIZA is accusing us of analgesia, the reality comes to their revenge. The evidence from ELSTAT, which has just seen the light of publicity ten days ago, shows that the unemployment we received at 17.2% and last November was 16.1%, today in the middle of a pandemic is falling to 13.3%. In other words, four units fell in total and three units in the last year. In the social field, we increased pre-primary allowances by 24% and granted the beneficiaries exceptional financial support for December. We increased the housing allowance by 34%. With the program "House and Work" we ensure rent subsidies, cover costs for construction and support for those who live in extreme poverty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. With the program "Creating a social and affordable housing network" we support individuals and families at risk or experience a lack of housing. Finally, we apply to the homeless census no later than mid-year. Our goal is not to leave anyone behind. It is not about words, it is about our actions. Ladies and gentlemen, in the election period of 2019 Mr. Tsipras, having paid the election result, stated that he wanted Kyriakos Mitsotakis to remain, although defeated, in the presidency of the party, which would very much attract SYRIZA, a defeat that fortunately remained a wishful desire for the place, Mr. Tsipras confirming something that the Greek citizens have long understood: the ruthlessness and disrespect with which SYRIZA continues to be civilised.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u214	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u215	Citizens, on the contrary, have memory and judgment. How can they forget that SYRIZA was the only party to vote against the article of the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure concerning the process of rebuilding and repairing the workers' residences in Lixouri after the catastrophic earthquakes of 2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President. How can it not be remembered that the Civic Opposition refused to vote in favour of the support measures for the citizens of Kefalonia and Ithaca affected by the 'Jan' Mediterranean cyclone? I conclude by pointing out something that as a citizen I am offended. Mr Tsipras' reference to the Mitsotakis regime is first of all offensive to him. Since 1974, when we left behind all traces of status, tens of elections have been held. A smooth succession to power has never been called into question. The loss of power may have caused the agony to the SYRIZA to repeat it. But that will happen when citizens express it with elections democratically and freely. It means a democratic restriction, ladies and gentlemen. I invite you to be more careful when you refer to the party that brought democracy to the place. We will therefore not tell you that it serves us while Mr. Tsipras remains in the leadership of the Officership. We will not say it because we are not the same and we do not want to be, because it does not fit our way of thinking and because our opponent is today and the expectations of the Greek people. With them we are tempered, we are responding, and for them we will be judged at the end of the four-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this. As long as there is a delay in time, the last colleague, instead of speaking at 3:00, will speak at 4:00. If you take all the colleagues who are going to speak, that is to say by number thirty-five, three minutes, we'll be done at about 3.45 ́. Evaluate it. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of censure expresses and reflects the strong social dissatisfaction with the Mitsotakis Government. It is hard to find a social group that is not affected by this policy, which does not feel insecurity. With the motion of censure we are putting forward a clear demand for a genuine sense of responsibility and not for hypocritical apologies, but also for political change, so that we do not always find ourselves in our sights, so that our country can change its course. The Greek society is tired of Greek entrepreneurship listening to excuses and transferring responsibility from Mr. Mitsotakis. If he is taught by his mistakes, as he hypocritically said to the Ministerial Council, it is time for him to leave, because the mistake in Greek society is Mr. Mitsotakis himself and this parasitic system of power that he has around him, all of which are groups of interests. It is such that the catastrophic effects on Greek society and the economy of your policy that is spontaneously "do not go anymore". You need to leave now. Where to start? From the tragic results of the pandemic with the hundreds of victims every day, with twice the number of victims from the average of Europe inside and outside the subordinated ICMs, to a weak SSR standing up because of the esteem and self-determination of its executives to whom you act with authoritarianism? Not to talk about the incomprehensible option not to prescribe private clinics, not to prescribe the tests or the twenty-three thousand victims of whom 38% are due to your own choices, as demonstrated by the Tsiodra - Lytra study. To mention the continuing wave of accuracy in basic goods, particularly gas, electricity, fuels that threaten the sustainability of households and businesses? This is a wave of precision which, we warn, will be intensified the next time in the raw materials of all producers. What's the truth? The Mitsotakis Government chose to start power accuracy with increases in September 2019. He chose from 2020 to manipulate prices with responsibility also for PPC, to allow for the shameful gain, to operate in Greece over the last two years a cartel, with your own choices. That is how we have reached our first position in terms of accuracy in Europe that is now also the case. Energy accuracy is clearly due to your choices: First, with the country's gas bonding, a clear deal that you have done with a few entrepreneurs behind hypocritical ligniteification, because you allow there to be a market without regulation and without control, and where regulators simply see the gangsters passing, without long-term bilateral contracts - there are no bilateral contracts in the long term in Greece - while you have blocked the energy communities and green energy. And that is the official position of the European Union and the Commission. In households the bills are unbearable, up to three times as much. No tools have yet been applied to professionals, businesses, farmers, municipal enterprises. Attica's industries officially stated to Mr Skreka that they are closing or suspending their production. After five months of the Mitsotakis announcements in PPC, we are still waiting for a ministerial decision, while you have made three ministerial amendments on the subject. However, to the farmers in the individual businesses of Thessaly, monthly accounts of over 2,000 euros were made in addition to electricity consumption. At this critical moment of the energy transition, you have made the tragic choice to sell, to privatise the country's property to energy operators. 100% of the natural gas networks were provided to a company which decides on the network partly owned by the Italian State, but not even 1% by the Greek State. 49% of the distribution network was allocated to a fund which does not have an investment obligation, but certainly has revenue. The majority of PPC provided it with an increase in share capital outside the House, as you gave the majority of the Board of Directors of ELPE guaranteed by the State. You want to talk about the waste, don't you? You want to talk about the direct assignments of 5 billion on the pretext of pandemic? Do you want to talk about the serious issues of democracy? Greece has come to be persecuted by journalists who reveal the government's scandals. Do you want to talk about the major corruption issues when ministers are exposed and blackmailed by subtle telegraphers? Why don't you talk about all this? But should we also talk about the incredible suffering, the risk of tens of thousands of citizens on the streets and hundreds of thousands of citizens who were left on Monday nights without electricity and without heating? Hide and responsibility ball, which you play very easily, creates rage, but they confirm that you are dangerous. It is not ridiculous that Mr Economou's excuses are that you did not know when the bad weather was coming or that it is not the responsibility of the state of the Mediterranean and Katechaki. It's dangerous for Greece. Are you the one who would evacuate the Eye in 30 minutes? Really, where did that Mr. Colakis get lost? The power breaks in Attica, which still exist today, the fifth day after the bad weather, are yours. It's outrageous, while people are at risk without heating and without electricity, the government's telling one lie after another. On Monday you said that in a short time the stream will be completed with two thousand cut connections, when you cannot open a way to the TEDO workshops. That's not even what you can do. And so you hide not only the failure, something more dangerous, your ignorance of what the problem is with electricity. On Tuesday, Mr Screkas said that by night the vast majority of the problems would have been restored. Today we are on the fifth day. And you're not ashamed to come here and talk to the House? Are the citizens of Attica five days out of power and you have the face to come here and talk? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The government's inadequacy, however, was expected to solve the problems of electricity supply. Do you know why? Why did you choose to privatise this body, leave it without technical staff and without staff, you appointed dozens of managers of "blue children" without a competition, with gold premiums that you gave them at the end of the year for a statement that had already been made and that is where you made a transparent supply of superb health expenditure. That body was all done and you brought them here to the House. And all this is what consumers pay for. They pay them at the "chart Mitsotakis" that comes into every account. Today's proposal by SYRIZA does not allow you to escape with communal tricks and polls. You must apologise for leaving citizens, professionals, businesses against fires, in fact, in the floods, in the snow. The regional adaptation plans for climate change, society's resilience plans were legislated by SYRIZA in 2016 and you have stopped them. That is why our society is not resilient. The Mitsotakis plan is clear. It's not a failure. You have a clear plan for a weak and absent state, with insecure and helpless citizens and businesses, to become behind their backs services and deal with the "fucking friends of Maximos" and the "blue children". You're messing with the public property. Even in Civil Protection you were assigned EUR 10,000,000 by Mr. Hardalis on the pretext of the fires in the areas that were burnt, in the Warabbey, in the Hippocratic State, in Tatoi. That's what you're not talking about. We brought them to the House, though. The policy challenges the sustainability of households and businesses. Your policy leads to the weakening of the state, the weakening of law, energy poverty, social inequalities, environmental degradation...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u221	And all of this is treated with arrogant and lack of respect. While with drumcrackers you advertise your accomplishment, every day the citizen experiences loneliness, insecurity and a propaganda storm. Whenever Mr Mitsotakis is proved once again, a poll comes. It's obvious. What do you tell the citizens, though? "Take it by yourself in the pandemic, take it by yourself on Attica Road." This is what citizens who have stayed abandoned even in hospitals. The government takes pictures and shakes hands. This is a government that used all the means to take power and get hooked up in it, even tomblading. And what does it apply to Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u222	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. We were just talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u223	I shall conclude, Mr President. A state, a Gorsu policy. That's what you're doing. You are a state-owned parasitic system that eats our Greece and reduces it. The debate on the proposal for distrust is not only submitted to Parliament, it is submitted to the Greek society because there is an alternative proposal to this destructive project. There is the proposal for progress and security so that no one stays alone, nobody stays behind. And it is the responsibility of the progressive democratic forces to take the motion of distrust and make it a proposal for progressive governance. It's time for the Greek society to take its luck in her hands. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u224	Mr. Comrade, we were just talking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u225	I'm faster than Mr. Cappato. You must confess.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u226	If that helps you, there is no problem, but I tell you that while you are late, the last colleague will speak an hour later. I don't have a problem. Please Mrs. Friday Brizidou come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the motion of censure made by the Civic Opposition at a time when pandemic is evolving, at a time when we have to deal with many economic issues in the context of the rehearsals, at a time when bad weather occurs, unfavourable conditions, and in particular in some areas there must be a symposium to deal with these difficulties. The citizens have indeed been bothered at the moment, have been concerned and have been in a difficult position. If you sincerely cared about citizens, you should give solutions, suggestions and suggestions to citizens' problems. On the other hand, it comes with a motion of censure by disorientating the direction to be taken, as if the citizens today, who actually have issues, need this debate on the motion of censure by a possible electoral procedure. Although everyone knows that things will not get there, we will simply repeat 90% of discussions that we have often done in here and will simply say some additional elements. Of course, if you look at it from another perspective, you will say that it is not opposition, because it gets three individual issues, as it is analysed in the motion of censure, which are major global problems, we meet them all over the world. And one will think: “There is nothing in this government? Have there not been mistakes in governance to reproach or severe criticism and have the opposition pandemics, dishonesty issues, which concern the whole world?' One will say that 'yes, it's global, it's all over Europe, but we're looking at the way it is managed'. But here too, the facts and the numbers give the answers. On the subject of pandemic a lot of conversations on many levels, which do not need. Four are the levels that need to be discussed. First, pandemic needs a health system, needs an ID, doctors and nurses. The previous government had not secured these beds, had a certain number, and without a pandemic we had shortcomings. The current government has tripled the ICU beds, hired subsidiary and permanent doctors and nurses and responded to this very great crisis. The second required is the vaccination procedure, which proved to be the protection weapon. He wanted an organization, which proved to be the best possible. Citizens were informed, there were vaccines in the urban centres and the process went on. And the latter is judged to be a results-based management. The people who have been ill, the people who have lost their lives in proportion to all of Europe are at such a level that the result shows that the management has been carried out in the right direction. If we now take the individual issues, we are in a disorientation and in the wrong direction. The second issue which concerns and is raised is the appreciation, accuracy and financial problems. And here again, it is the mistake of the Officerial Opposition and of course other parties, which, as has emerged from the debate, support this proposal. Because in economic matters the current government has taken too many steps and has helped in all areas the citizens, professionals and entrepreneurs, and from the effects of the long-term economic crisis, but also from the economic crisis that has arisen because of the pandemic. These, unlike the previous government, which has nothing to say to each one of these measures which supported the citizens, professionals, entrepreneurs, but only the firm answer after what he says: 'We could not do any of this, because we had memoranda'. It's not like that. The Memorandums were forbidden in some areas. But what we are living today in combination with pandemic is even greater obstacles and even greater difficulties. However, the government and the relevant ministries have never taken advantage of these things to find excuses, rather than fighting, fighting, fighting, finding proposals and standing next to the citizens and supporting workers and fighting unemployment. Because no matter how much you help the citizen with a subsidy to pay the electricity or to face everyday life, when he doesn't have a job or when a family member or no one works, things are very difficult. That is why the Government stressed the question of workers and ensured them by the suspension of work throughout the pandemic and was next door. Again in the early 1922s, the minimum wage is increased in order to raise it in the coming months and helps with OAED's programmes to ensure more and more jobs. And business subsidies and financing are done on this condition, not to be redundant, a very important part, because it really supports the citizen. It also supports entrepreneurs with many tax and insurance reductions, with a reduction in VAT, with a reduction in the tax, with suspension of the solidarity levy, with a reduction of three units of insurance contributions. These are all steps which help the citizen. However, we also hear the voice of each of us saying that there is help, but there are still difficulties. We need to take further steps to breathe the economy so that we can move forward. And the government comes in with the big steps and the plans which, for the first time, come to the table, strategic investments, emblematic investments, the top draft of a fair transition to an area that as it was evolving down and struggling, but now has hope and will touch and step to take the next step. All this is the government's concern, it's the Ministry's concern, it's the real effort being made for the citizen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u228	Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u229	In conclusion, I would just like to say that when you stick to some issues like that, you are not going to make big projects, because they will be taken by a great businessman and win, we are destroying and condemning dozens of citizens, dozens of entrepreneurs, workers who will work in these projects and take part in the investments and have a job and will bring growth to our place. For all this, I have to say that the motion of censure really is not based anywhere. I think she gave the government the opportunity, although her job was to work for the citizen, to report on her work in all areas, to all the ministries. And I think the answer to the citizen is that yes, we know that there is a difficult situation now in bad weather and that is why we are correcting what has happened, supplementing what is needed, so that next time there are no unpleasant situations again, but we are looking at the man and the good of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u231	The Communist Party of Greece did not expect any motion of distrust and no one to reveal the profound anti-grassroots and classic character of the New Democracy Government's policy on the part of the people. After all, he does it on his streets every day, in every workplace, in every city and village. It goes without saying that the New Democracy Government will vote against. It goes without saying that its anti-grass policy, which sacrifices life, health, income and labour rights to ensure the profits of pluralism, is voted against. However, we will not let it go unnoticed that this repetitive game of proposals for distrust, this convenient controversy with roll-over, we often live through it. It's a well-known trick. Now the proposal of distrust by SYRIZA to the Government of New Democracy, before a "first-time Left" motion of distrust from the New Democracy to SYRIZA, previously between the two partners of the then-compartmentalism, in the New Democracy and the PASOK. So all this - and that is what workers need to keep - is to hide their strategic partnership in the most profoundly classic, inhuman policy, with constant monuments and cuts, anti-grassroots measures, European semesters, to preserve the sacrosanct and loyal capitalism, the competitiveness and profitability of business groups, serving to the people the crumbs that will be left behind by the food of green and digital capitalist profitability. You are, in fact, deeply mistaken if you think that with such games you will blur the waters, folding the responsibilities for the crimes you are constantly committing at the expense of the social worker, a popular majority. All institutional reforms so far "KARIKRATS", "KALIKRATIS", "KLITHENI I", slowly, but firmly, transformed municipalities into parts of state services, to serve capitalist development, regulate the competition rules of business groups that plunge projects and services into municipalities. This role will also be played by the development organizations, the previously known bankrupt development companies that broke up the Greek people's money. A prerequisite for this is, of course, the reduction of state funding in municipalities and regions, the return of services, the delivery of civil protection to non-governmental organisations and technical services to contractors, without means and personnel, the reduction of social structures, the privatisation of basic services such as the collection and management of waste, the marketing of land, free spaces, refurbishment of areas, the more entrepreneurial exploitation of land, infrastructure and resources, the generalization of labour relations tyres. Finally, the state, municipalities and regions and private capital are the triangle of sin. This was proved by the Attica Road fiasco and the show blamed each other, entangled as mice by thousands of drivers, elderly, women, children and undignified people. You all do the same in Crete, with the case of the construction of the North Road Axis. A project necessary for the safety of residents and visitors, which is delivered from the study to the construction and use of private individuals with a public-private partnership, with a free public and Community money for construction groups, with the Cretan people paying them, with the unfamiliar, expensive toll, while the people's income is refined from the accuracy, appreciation of fuels, flat consumption. Thirty, forty years you've been mocking the Cretans, considering them for election. Two and a half thousand and up the fatal accidents at times of your own government, and now you tell them that it's time for a life-saving project for the people? Of course not. The pain for human life has not caught you, but the need to serve the objectives of capital, because Crete, because of its position, is an important hub in the plans for the monopolistic groups. You are fighting with each other about who will have the paternity of the project to take credit for business groups. Trade says one another. Trade says the other. Toll says New Democracy, SYRIZA and PASOK tolls. SPP says one man, PPP says the other one. But who will be called "pay the marble" either with New Democracy, either with SYRIZA or with PASOK? The people. On the same route, the Mayors, the Region of Crete, the provincial councils, the tripartite majority of New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK on the regional council of Crete. And this is how suffering continues for the people, earthquakes and oppressions, with popular layers burning in the summer and drowning in winter. On the one hand, say to them "stay in your homes so that you don't drown" and on the other, "Go away to be saved". Remind you of the murderous earthquakes in Arkalochori, leaving homeless and helpless thousands of earthquakes plundered. Four months later and continue to be exposed to snow and cold hundreds of earthquakes plundered homeless. It didn't work for air conditioners either. They call for 100% compensation, for food, clothing, household equipment, for debt write-offs to PPC, OTE, banks, taxes, for measures to support unemployed, poor, farmers, self-employed and freelance professionals. But the government has bought it. Not even 1 cent as the first elementary financial aid to be owed. And a lot more. All of this at a time when TERNA invests millions of euros of state money for a private airport with contracts on SYRIZA, leveling high productivity land, altering the land data, resulting in the high flooding in 2020. This is a timely policy that considers infrastructure, people's protection, costs and sacrifices them on the altar of the profits of business groups. This is why these phenomena are constantly repeated, with even greater intensity. And do you now have the nerve to talk about management deficiencies and lack of coordination and to throw everything into climate change? Climate change didn't come as divine punishment. It's the result of the capitalist way of development. So who will protect the climate and nature? How about you? The European Union? The capital? So, the ones who ruined them? Can the wolf guard the sheep? That is why your hypocritical apologies are causing the popular feeling. While the dangers, for phenomena such as what we are living on, were expected, no prevention measures had been taken, no design of the country's anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-Semitism shielding. Because you're all putting it on the cost-benefit scale. So the JRC is against you, it opposes you and is voting against you. He stands against those who serve the capitalist rot, a system hostile to the working class, and does not put it down. He fights for the rights of the people and invites for the struggles of today, but showing the way for the conquests of the future and for the definitive abolition of the exploitation of human beings by people, to extract from the richest means of production and the wealth they steal, to truly become master of himself, for a fairer society. And as the mandarin says, "when the people perpetuate and their ties break, it can build a shower and it can spoil." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u232	Thank you. The Minister now has the floor, Mr. Petsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Before going on, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I should like to express two or three points which have been raised by previous speakers. First of all, for a reversal of Mr Skourletis's speech, which spoke about political characteristics in relation to the snowstorm in Halandri, I have to say, as the Mayor of Halandri himself said, that our cooperation is excellent and in all previous days we have been in constant contact. As for what he said about the Attica region, after I had contacted Mr Patoulis, but also in the previous days with Mr Kokkalis, the Vice-President responsible, I have to say that the region was present in various parts of the Haillands and at the Mint and, of course, in Papanikolis and elsewhere all the previous days and yesterday and Monday and Tuesday. So it's not about finding political features, Mr. Skourlet. The point is to see where there was a problem, where there were malfunctions - as I pointed out today in my letter - and to sit together to deal with them and not to hide behind supposed political features that do not exist. Regarding the report by Mrs Kafantaris and the table she has presented, I will say: Mr Callianos answered this issue, but I think that all of us in Athens in recent years have been able to see for ourselves that the magnitude of snowfall, at least in the center of Athens, has been unprecedented for many decades in a very short time. Therefore, any possibility of snowing from the municipalities, the region and other civil protection mechanisms was much less limited for this period. And we have seen the problems that have arisen in areas such as the northern suburbs - but not the very northern ones - such as Halandri, areas in Maroussi, Psychic, Philothei, Vrilless, where there are no equipment available for other areas such as Horoy, Dionysus, Acharnes and that are much more common in snowfall to act immediately, in due time, within such short time - I repeat - a short period of snowstorming. So it takes a lot more analysis, not a surface panel, to tell us, Mrs. Kafantari, what to do. With regard to what Mr Mylonis said: he specifically stated that this government impoverished the Greeks. But are we serious? Look at the evidence before we talk about making sense of what we're talking about. The growth rate in the third quarter of 2021 was 13.4% compared with 2020. What's that? Depression? Reducing unemployment by three percentage points, from about 16.2% to 13.2%, that is, a hundred and a half thousand five hundred sixty fellow citizens have found us a job in the past year. They're impoverished? They don't eat crowns. They need income, and they need their households. As to what Mr Famelos said, he said too much. I'm just gonna stay here, actually. The people tell us, "The drowned by his hair is caught" and the motion of distrust against the government submitted by the Civic Opposition confirms it. This is because it is a hopeless attempt to impress, motivated by purely micropolitical criteria. In fact, Mr Tsipras sees, firstly, the political resonance of both his own face and his party, going downwards in the polling of public opinion and, secondly, the political future of his area, as an anti-population officer, threatened by the leaking of his voters to the third party. That is why he calls for elections and submits a motion of censure, no, that is, because he believes he will come out first, but because he fears he will come out third. Society, however, perceives this and does not "squee" in such micro-political games. Much more so when the Civic Opposition remains so boring and its krone, when it dares to say that this government is the worst of the Transmigration, they turn boomerang. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the worst government in post-multipleism is Mr Tsipras' first-time left-wing government. He played the country's participation in the European Union and in the Eurozone. Close the banks. He imposed capital control. He signed a third, unnecessarily memorable memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u234	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u235	She mortgaged the country's fortune on lenders for a century and charged over 100 billion euros to Greeks...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u236	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u237	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u238	...who will pay this unbridled government for decades, Mr. Famele. So at the hanged man's house, they don't talk about rope. On the contrary, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, listening to the real needs of the citizens for a better tomorrow, is looking ahead by continuing reforms to make the lives of the Greeks better.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u239	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u240	Let the citizens judge it, Mr. Famele. Ladies and gentlemen, the last five weeks have been difficult especially for our fellow citizens in Attica, who have been tested by this unprecedented, many decades ago, snowfall during the bad weather "Elpida". The major problems that have arisen demonstrate the need for the new framework for civil protection to develop even further, so that the state mechanism reaches the desired point of preparedness, which is needed to deal with phenomena of such a great intensity as this bad weather. We need to improve coordination between state, government and private individuals. Apart from the sincere apologies, which we are asking our fellow citizens for, and having proved that we recognise our mistakes and learn from them, we are working to get a better result in the future. We are putting the cave of requirements higher than the result of the management that has been done and in this context we are constantly trying to improve ourselves against the ever-growing need to address such unusual weather events, which are manifested as a consequence of the climate crisis. We have proved, not in words, but in practice, that we have the solutions for the recovery of the economy and the support of the world of work, the upgrading of our country's defence, the protection of public health, the defence of the rule of law, the jump of digital transformation, the security of citizens, the strengthening of self-government with development resources. We must not forget that as states, governments and societies around the world have been tested for two years by the strong shocks of the most serious health crisis in the last 100 years and the resulting greater economic recession in post-war history, Greece has done so. And, firstly, with the decisive management of the health crisis and, secondly, with the prudent management of its economic consequences. Despite the unprecedented uncertainty of the pandemic, Greece managed mainly because it restored confidence, a valuable intangible capital that is transformed into practical financial support for the business world, households and workers. And so we all stood together. The total support of the economy and society by the state to tackle the pandemic exceeds EUR 43 billion over the period 2020-2022. This is the third largest package of support measures as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone and the fourth world, according to the relevant report by the European Stability Mechanism. What we have said, we have done and this confidence has been consolidated by both historically low interest rates in Greek securities of every duration, as well as by the attracting large foreign investments of global industrial and technological colleges, such as "VOLKSWAGEN", "MICROSOT", "PFIZER" and "DIGITAL REALTY", as well as global banking colleges, such as JP Morgan, which recently upgrade our homeland on the international investment map, adding new dynamics to the Greek economy and creating new, better paid jobs. We said we'd reduce taxes on real estate. We did it. We said we'd cut taxes on business. We did it. We said we'd cut taxes on labour. We did it. We had said that we would introduce a net of investment-friendly tax incentives and with a view to reversing Brain Drain. We did it. We have proved by numbers, not in words, the ability of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis to manage the unprecedented situation caused by the pandemic with methodicity and design, without panic and spasmist movements and our determination to implement, despite the crises, all the necessary reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's reform plan has one main objective: to make the lives of the Greeks better. In the same spirit, we are working on the part of self-government. Our aim at the Ministry of Interior is to strengthen local government, providing the necessary facilities to upgrade its full range of responsibilities. For us the role of self-government, towns and regions in economic development and social cohesion is triple: developmental, social and cultural-sport. Developmental because no central project can be designed and implemented in the absence of local society. Socially because no central intervention when you look at it from above on the macro-level, can show you how much it strengthens social cohesion at a micro-level. And cultural-sporting because it is another thing to talk about protecting our cultural heritage for thousands of years and another thing to talk about fire protection in Mycenes or access to Ancient Olympia or Ancient Messini. With regard to the development role of self-government, it is the first time after many years that we have invested in the remit of regions and municipalities with the relevant resources. We move to four levels. The first concerns the reforms we are implementing, the second concerns the regular financing of the TAs, the third concerns the emergency financing and the fourth concerns the financial instruments of the Ministry of Interior. At the first level, I am talking about reforms such as the new law on ASE, the Internal Audit Act, the new electoral law on OTAs that restores rulership to self-government, the regulation of a series of outstanding issues such as undeclared squares that have forever increased the revenues of the municipalities at the time they have reduced forever and have relieved them from fines and increases. I am also referring to reforms such as late payment arrangements, facilities for the payment of instalments to the Deposit and Loan Fund, exceptional aid for the treatment of pandemic, permanent intervention to facilitate public procurement, the new framework for the welfare of pet animals and secondary legislation in progress, as well as the upgrading of the social structures of the municipalities. We are, of course, promoting the major reform of multi-level governance in the next few years. All these interventions show that we are methodically building a solid relationship of confidence. In the field of regular financing, we have been working in coordination to reverse the downturn in centralised resources in previous years. In this context, this year's first regular grant for 2022 from the CFP totalling EUR 113.5 million is increased by 6.6% compared with the corresponding amount to which the municipalities were awarded last year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will close in a minute, Mr President, respecting the time. As we have said, 2022 will be the year of reform of the CAP in order to have a fairer distribution, but also a significant effort to increase resources, which will lead to a gradual reversal of the decline in the course of recent years. This is also an answer to what Mr Synthrakis said, which he said about a reduction in resources. This is the first time in recent years that we have increased resources significantly. Evidence that even in 2021, Mr. Synthraki, we had given two additional allocations of the CAP. Instead of 12, fourteen were given the same amount. I would like to close by leaving aside the other financial instruments and the proposals we have to do, because just as the President has said, we must respect the time of all the speakers. And I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote against the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition against the Government. Because that is how serious, effective and feeling of responsibility and pride we can move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u241	Thank you for the time too. Mr Dimitrios Markopoulos has the floor from New Democracy, followed by Theophilos Xanthiopoulos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to denounce my resignation. It is true that we in the New Democracy lack a sense of humor, because if we wanted to see the real intentions of the SYRIZA, we should say that yes, we agree to go to an early election to see how much fraud the sack puts. But we're giving up the measure, the seriousness. We're leaving this to them. Look, today, although I'm not a doctor, you'll allow me to speak on medical terms. I'll talk about two specific phenomena. I won't talk about the panic crisis that SYRIZA has fallen into, no. I'll talk about myopia and strabismus. In his motion of censure, Alexis Tsipras proves that he really has problems of sight. He knows that he cannot politically hit Kyriakos Mitsotakis, i.e. he does not look to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but essentially - what he does? - he is blurred towards Nikos Androullakis. There's a targeting problem. He knows from a preamble that Alexis Tsipras does not have the ability to speak as a future Prime Minister, as the first candidate and his party as a candidate for the first party, and he joins in the direction of the Change Movement. So it is political allegiance that has led him to this motion of censure. His eyes are in the Change Movement. As to myopia - to return to the other condition - the problem is that SYRIZA does not understand the modern times. He doesn't really understand what's going on, where society has gone. Can't understand that we're not in 2012-2015. That's it, it's gone, it's left time, it's gone unreturned. Greek citizens seek security, seek progress. They don't want any new adventures. They seek a leader, modern, modern and visionary, not a manager of misery and personal political dead ends. Alexis Tsipras made a motion of censure to save his political future. That, guys, it's clear. Let's get this straight. Dear friends from SYRIZA, anxiety hides this sentence. You don't care about the place. You who, in the burnt-up in Matti, declared cynically with Minister Toska - you will hear it again on Sunday - that you are looking for and find no mistake, you who did not say an apology and played a whole night in Matti, you with such a successful political Rena Dour, who saw how Mandra drowned, now come play us baby virgins. You're serious! I heard before Mr Famello talking about Golden Boys and so on. I have not heard you, Mr Famele, talk about the children of IPTO in your years, about the EUR 1 million premiums in five of the nine members of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u243	Who's now with IPTO?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u244	Did you forget about Petis? The CEO of IPTO, Manusakis, did you forget him? Shall I go down a little? May I remind you of the funds at the Ministry of Migration Policy and OLAF that started the investigations? Do you want to talk about buying a scop company from PPC loss-making? Do you want me to remind you of the EUR 900 million you left in PPC and now you're being cut off for the exact current? You ruined PPC and you're cut off for the expensive power? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Do you remember the pastures? Silence here! Yes, sir. Who are they talking to?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u245	The "original theme" now speaks!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u246	The trucks on the highway that in 2018 you folded them? You forgot about them, didn't you? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And to say another thing, because you are moralizing a lot and I have heard a debate about the media, I remember Mr. Friend - he is gone - when he was a trade unionist in the papers and invited colleagues to strike against the pluralist publishers. What about "HAY"? You're gonna pay them people? Did you find a solution? You're hypocrites, you're born hypocrites. When it comes to 'SYNEY', then it's just a few words. When it was about how many other newspapers, then strike movements to exhaust.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u247	Zero debts, zero!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u248	You're casting, and it seems. The ones you were playing theatre in the management of the fires, sit down now and shake the finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u249	Provokater! You play theater.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u250	We're different, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u251	Sure!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u252	Where we're wrong, we're sorry. We're not playing theatre. I remember the Prime Minister then Mr Tsipras with the maps. He was anxious to see if we had any victims. Now, of course, the fact that they had been victims and had been informed was something else! So the theater's not for us. Look, what turns out here is that you're looking at your political self. And in 2014-2015 when you did not vote for the President of the Republic was the same, you had this bulimia. Mr. Skourletis, this bulimia for power you had. And now you're trying to save yourself. But the second one, because the first one you know that you cannot have it. So what you care about is your political selfishness, these are what guide you. No analysis, no mood to do something essential to the place. I'll say something about the Change Movement. We with the Change Movement, with PASOK, think we have saved the country. But it would be nice not to squeeze, not to follow the hogs of those with whom he was confronted. Dear friends and friends, whether you like it or not, the government of Mitsotakis is the only alternative. There is no alternative, you know that. The world judges you and sees you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u253	Mitchell for ever!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, I see that colleagues are concerned about what to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u255	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u256	We've brought a series of tax evasions here. We've brought the minimum wage increase. We brought HISFIA. You raised HISBIA, we're reducing him. It's a series of social interventions that you couldn't. You're impeccable. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're talking about health. You refused the penalties for uninvasive parents who didn't take their children to school. Your Chief is seriously responsible for talking about unexploiting vaccines. You have voted against the mandatoryity of the vaccines, your mistake. You're talking about the media when you were sending the police. Babis Papadimitriou said it before. History has ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u257	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute or so. Are you talking about institutionalism when Mr. Janakopoulos visited the Arena Ice? What are these things? So already - and I close - you know that political deaths do not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u259	About Gerapitrist and Furthite, say, about the SMS.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u260	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Skourletis, there is no political mortal revolution. You already belong to what Andreas Papandreou rightly said in history. You were a confrontation party - and you remain until the next elections - a political mistake, a historical parentheses. It's time to go where you really deserve, in your political ending, coming, and in oblivion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u262	There was a change between Mr. Xanthopoulou and Mr. Polakis. Mr. Xanthopoulou will speak in Mr. Xanthopoulou's place and in Mr. Polakis's place Mr. Xanthopoulou will not have any misunderstandings. Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. I have a lot to say and I start fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u264	Lavredi Beria, say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u265	After Mr Marcopoulou's speech, I have this challenge to the Members of the New Democracy: you all repeat, because it is obviously the non paper, that we have made the motion of censure not in response to the anger of society, but because he wants Tsipras to be rescued and because we will be a third party. So, listen, do us a favor, vote in favour of the motion of censure seven-eight of you, since you are so sure that the polls are valid, to see Rhodes, to see the fuck. Let's see who's going to be third and who's going to pee on election night. Because you haven't gotten a lot of what's going on in society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go fast. How many dead were we on September 1, 2021 when Mr. Ploris and Mrs. Ganga took over? We had thirteen thousand seven hundred forty-three. How many do we have today, ladies and gentlemen? We have twenty-three thousand percent ninety-five. And Mrs. Gaga dares to come today and say what she says! In five months, butts, we've got nearly nine thousand five hundred dead. Are we first in Europe, third in the world in the last five months and daring and speaking of successful pandemic management, when we arrived at two thousand two hundred and two hundred three deaths per million population, when Sweden, which we did not want to be like, is in the thousand five hundred fifty-one, Denmark is in the six hundred thirty-five, Germany in the thousand four hundred fourteen, Switzerland in the thousand four hundred sixty, Austria in the thousand four hundred sevens? Aren't you ashamed? And you dare talk about successful pandemic management? Two hundred thirty eyes are here what you repeat and repeat. And you're talking to us about bombing? Aren't we ashamed? We've told you so many things since November 2020. What did you do? Nothing, absolutely nothing! Mr. Georgiadis, the protector of the wholesalers, who have humiliated four mayors, left the PCR test at 60 and 80 euros to denominate private centers and put a price of 47 euros when, today, we are talking about, hospitals are provided with the reagent with 7-8 euros, the ESA with 11 euros and the entire private sector with 5 and 7 euros. Aren't you ashamed to say these things? Does Mrs Gaga, who was once a week in our offices when we were at the Ministry to ask for the Salvation and to declare her availability for the Central Health Council? Didn't he see the eighteen beds that ICU increased in "Save" over these days? The 5,000,000 euros budget increase in "Salvation" did not see them? The three hundred people who have been strengthened over these days, which have covered all the vacancies in the 'Salvation', have not been seen by Mrs Gaga? She pays letters and she's ashamed of what she's doing. Let's go down. Mr. Gerapititi, you're not here, but I want you to answer tomorrow. Is Mr. Brutsi here? It was before. He's gone. He'll have his word. It's not his fault, of course. Mr. Gerapetritis, can you tell me whether, on 28, 29 January last year, a day after your multiple phone calls with Mr. Furtiotis were paid by Mr. Furtiotis in October, November, December from the 'Cooperation' programme, that is, 70,000 euros every month, which was cut by law by Mr. Brutsis on 20 December 2020 and on 2 January by order of 2 January by Furthiotis left? Can the professor answer, the main instigator of the state of service? Has Mr. Furtiotis been paid for this money or has it not been paid? He had taken 180 grand by September. He didn't take it for a bruise. The next Mr. Hatzidakis got them? Is that why he called Mr. Hatzidakis's sigal? Let's talk about it here openly. Secondly, Mr Stavros and Mr Pittsilis of the independent authority have not answered me and I have asked three times, was Mr Furtiotis and his companies paid by the Refunded advance programme and, if so, how much? Why don't you answer? Mr Hatzidakis is also the question to Mr Stavoura is also the question to Mr Pittsili of the independent authority. Did you pay him? Either he keeps you, who knows where, and you're smiling and talking to the underworld and the indictment, and the man who's organizing murders, or he's hitting the kalashnikovs on the wall to keep keeping him safe and not even today's ministers? And you're not ashamed? Let's go down. Are you not telling me, Mr Hatzidakis, the Golden Boys of 200,000 and 300,000 euros where it is a fifth day after snowfall and there are so many households without power? Where is he? Aren't you ashamed of that? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To speak as mayor, to close my speech. Snowfall is the most controlled theory. In the flood, which is about three hundred millimetres of rain in three hours and goes down the river with eighty-four kilometers and which occurs once in a hundred years, like Mandra or firestorms like Matty, which suddenly goes in and goes down with a hundred miles ten miles and has a hundred dead, can be compared to that we lived the other day? Since 1983, I've been in medicine, I'm in Athens. Callian's gone too. In 1987 the snowfall wasn't much higher? The biggest thing I remember was. It was 2000, wasn't it? It was 2008, wasn't it? It was 2015, wasn't it? Wasn't it of 2017? When's the Mediterranean reopened? Since 1983, when I have been in Athens, the Mediterranean has never been closed and closed to a state of "Metotakis S.A.".
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u266	Don't scratch on the gossip gossip. In 2015, didn't the Attica Street close, when the trucks folded? It doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u267	Leave Attica Street. We are talking about the Mediterranean, where Pentagon, the "State of Athens", the "Security", the Ministry of Justice, Henry Dunan", or the ERT above. In the central artery of Athens, didn't he know we had to have a snowmoon on top of everything, one from below and go like this? That's what I did as mayor. That's how we dealt with three avalanches. It's not that you're useless, it's not that you're incapable. You are conscious servants of the Chicago School, i.e. the weakening of the state, the absence of control of the markets, authoritarianism and repression and the takeover and the Gempel propaganda and a state of excellence buried in the snow, buried in the fires, buried in the pandemic. Because it's not perfect. It's the mechanism that Mitsotakis built to raise the money and control who's gonna give it to. That's why you're gonna fall and fall on a steak. So here's Rhodes, vote for the reproach to see, Marcopoulou, who's going to go out third and if you're going to be a congressman in Piraeus. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u268	Mrs Athanasios has the floor from the Greek Solution. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen. The next speaker has gone up in Step. Here, Mrs. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the recent bad weather in Elpis and the fiasco in Attica and on the perimeter avenues, the government had all the time to prepare itself to deal effectively with it. Already a week ago, the meteorologists warned and stressed the severeness of snowfall, and that the very centre of Athens and suburbs would be affected, just as it was. In our ears, the typical phrase of meteorologists that this snowfall will remain in history and has been fully confirmed, but unfortunately, for the wrong reasons. The negligence and diligence of the government in managing a twelfth of snowfall will remain in history and will remain as a misguidedly failed management of a weather phenomenon, which should not even have evolved into a crisis. Nevertheless, most of Central Greece and even the capital of the state paralysed, central roads were excluded, while even buses and trains were enclaved and downloaded the world from the trains into the cold for tens of hours. However, you have only focused on Attica Street to get attention from government errors, which have emerged and exist to date in Katechaki, Mediterranean, Kifisia, Lavrios, etc. So imagine that the enclaved cars were electrical, as you want them. The enclosed passengers would have died from the cold, as they would have stopped their operation because they have less autonomy than the current conventional gasoline and diesel engines. Have you considered the enormous responsibilities towards unjustly trapped people who have faced health risks in these extremes of stress, because of coldness and because of the feeling of exclusion and abandonment that you have created them, people who have suffered heart attacks, patients who have been operationed with venoms, patients who have gone to have haemodialysis or chemotherapy or a visit to their doctor, but also the healthy ones who have subsequently been ill due to the omissions of your staff? In addition, what exactly is going on with the DATA? You privatised him to ensure better conditions, better prices, and the services provided are inadequate with a PPC expensive. How many households, how many areas with multi-day power cuts - Marathona, northern suburbs, Kessarian, Ilioupoli - five, six days later and still have no power. In other words, they remain without heating, without food, without hot water, without communication, teleworking. The modernization, which you have announced, and the occupants that you are visionating, is regressive. Even in the 1950 ’ s, things were not like that. With cold power cuts. It's hot, we've got power cuts. Has one of the government considered what effects these breaks had on people with mechanical support in the home with a respirator, on people who are in supply of oxygen, on people who have more need of heating, on babies and on young children? You are concerned about telematics at the time when you have not even ensured the fundamental right and the fundamental need for household electricity. Also, when electricity falls, we are now being cut off by telephone communication. In other words, we are deprived of all kinds of help. It's clean survival conditions in the center of the capital. Please consider, for example, the condition of the “Save” hospitals where the patients were separated with half a night or in hospitals in which Monday's personnel and nurses were locked up and three and five shifts under these circumstances were carried out. And within all this for three days, the Prime Minister was missing, while during the pandemic he used to be present and make proclamations all the time. Gentlemen, all of this is indicative of the lack of coordination and efficiency of the government, which puts the health and safety of citizens at great risk. In this same unfortunate way, you have also dealt with the health crisis. You are presenting new ITH beds in the "Salvation" - which you inaugurate - that have been created at the expense of the Parliament. It's a shame, however, that they don't work, since you haven't placed the proper staff. And I ask: Two years what have you done to train further doctors, pathologists, pneumonologists, cardiologists for the needs of intensive care units? Leave in your knowledge the ESS and additionally set in suspension seven thousand sanitaries as if you were abundant for your prestige alone, the ones that the Republikast told us that they faced the pandemic in their difficult rewards. These irreversibly and unfairly excluded and extremisted health workers would be well controlled with two rapid-tests a week and they would be the only ones sure that they would not disperse the virus to patients unlike their vaccinated colleagues who, with a dubious vaccination certificate they can well disperse. The non-assistance of the ESS, the unauthorised mergers of hospitals, the non-prescribing of molecular tests - I will not say about prices, other colleagues have said so - the change in the protocols for schools all show your wrong handling together. Then you wonder why we have so many deaths. We're past twenty-three thousand deaths. The responsibilities of looking for them in the unfortunate management policies of the pandemic that you have adopted and finally making your self-criticism. You have supported and continue to support your plan unilaterally in vaccination. However, it was the drugs that would solve the problem of the ESS and the economy rather than the emergency vaccines, as according to the WHO, it was doubtful whether the vaccine would eliminate the disease, as confirmed. You do not hesitate to broaden it even to young children who are not ill. You are vaccinating the third dose all the time, although the data show worldwide that the vaccines are ineffective in the 'Omicon' variant and even though the WHO does not warmly support the repeated doses, because they are known to cause immunosuppression. You did not order monoclonally approved by the FDA since November 2020, when respectively Germany, France and Italy had already taken these approved medicines which ensured 70% health from the initial stage. Of course, for this to happen, he needed serious primary health care, he needed a family doctor, who in Greece, of course, has a different meaning from the rest of Europe. You have wrongly made a family doctor the individual who pays him out of his pocket, even though he pays incompletely for medical treatment. So you have only received two thousand doses of monoclonal antibodies under a programme of the European Union lately and are granted only on the basis of a committee report. In what sense should the committee approve? Aren't there any specialist doctors? What are the criteria of this committee? Make it possible in the world to obtain them with a prescription directly, forcing them to receive compulsory vaccination, in the meantime losing valuable time. You broke out the medicine. You humiliated doctors. You doctors of the New Democracy are in agreement with all this? Italy with a population of sixty million took two hundred and fifty thousand. We with ten million shouldn't have guaranteed at least thirty-forty thousand in proportion? Ladies and gentlemen, we have not seen any resignation, no responsibility, no talk of any driver who has caught up in the snow in Marathon and the Mediterranean. Unfortunately, you are cultivating a sense of insecurity to the citizens. This is not the attitude that a state must have towards its citizens. You are punishing everyone with fines every month, 100 euros in receipt, since, as I said before, you do not provide them with the treatment you should have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u270	Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u271	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the motion of censure tabled by SYRIZA against the government on the grounds, but not the only cause, of the total paralysis which Elpida has seen a few days ago. First, let us be honest with ourselves, but above all with the citizens. The bad weather, which was the second successive snowfall in Attica after last year's 'Medea', was predicted in due time. But instead of seeing an organised approach, as we would have expected, what did we see? We saw "Hellenic" proving the conscious withdrawal of the state from its role as a service provider and as the protector of the citizens of that country. For many years we have seen the individual responsibility of substituting the state in the rhetoric of the rulers. We saw our fellow citizens giving food, sharing it with other fellow citizens, while they were all excluded on the Attica Road. The total lack of understanding and total lack of even the slightest shot in dealing with the problems, which every intelligent man would have expected, were seen by the tragic moments that we saw unfolding on Attica Street, with a multitude of drivers enclaved for too many hours, which put their health directly at risk, since the conditions prevailing were particularly inconvenience to people, our citizens to stay without water, with limited fuel and unfortunately, with the state absent. Thus, many people, hundreds of people were there trapped and desperately in the expensive, but, in terms of the end toll, on the most expensive road, which is within the capital's residential fabric. A few hours later, and while we were all watching the images in our receivers, the Minister agreed to intervene to inform us. What did he say? That it is not the government's responsibility, responsibility is burdened with the management company, which had made no provision for the necessary equipment, and that on its own initiative it would ask for responsibility. Let us note, of course, that it is not the government's responsibility to find problems, but to ensure that they are resolved in their origins. However, this seems to be all fine letters for the government of Mitsotakis S.A., since once again we have seen a communication management and an effort to resolve this in such a way that it is a very serious phenomenon. What did we see? We have seen a press conference, as we have also become accustomed to what is happening in that country to see, with the Minister responsible being framed by equally competent State Secretarys who have taken their turn to place themselves on matters of their own competence. In fact, in addition to what we saw during the press conference, communication and only traffic can be considered the horizontal compensation of EUR 2,000 from the company managing the Attica Road for every locked-up given at the Prime Minister's command, but also the omissions that we have seen from government officials on pipelines against the management company. In fact, too many Ministers and State Secretarys have said that it is now on the basis of the legislative framework that citizens are given the opportunity to bring actions. Unfortunately, however, the problem is not solved, and unfortunately, the Attica Street was not the only example, the Mediterranean, Katahakis, Kifissia, the main streets of Athens were closed not only for hours but for days. The prescribed failure once again demonstrated the inadequacy of the private and oligarchs, who all the Memorandum Arc promotes against anything public. Once again, it seemed paradoxical that public goods must function as such. However, as long as the memorial parties continue to ring on their backs - and at one time let's see them demand compensation for the citizens - we will have, we will continue to have rain floods, closed roads and snow problems, our excluded citizens in the cold and cold and fires in the summer. Ladies and gentlemen, Merra25 does not stand in the management of privatised structures. For us, the problem is clearly structural. The state-owned oligarchy is renegotiating the country by, of course, working in good cooperation with the lenders, who are caring for the deregulation, privatisation and commercialisation of everything to lighten the way to all the few-farmers, so that they can buy all the goods in turn, of course, always in the context of the private development initiative. Mera25 of this structure is blaming, this vicious circle murmurs, this oligarchy murmurs, an oligarchy with which all parties of the Memorandum Arc - New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement, PASOK - are smuggling. We are opposed to this structure and to this oligarchy, we will continue to do so until the last minute. That is why our vote on Sunday will be reproached not only to the Mitsotakis Government, but against the state-run oligarchy. It will be reproached in all the way in which you have been operating the state that you have made sure that so far, which, unfortunately, instead of caring for the citizens, often comes to tell them how they are to blame. We heard voices say that the citizens should pay fines because they entered the Attica Street. Other former top ministers, like Mr Manos, said they should pay for the noise they caused and for the suffering they caused. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. If we can hear these words from people who have nursed to ministerial thugs and there is no apology, although the Prime Minister only told her that it was not because he would have to ensure that committees that are going to retrospectively consider what has happened, but instead of making sure that problems are dealt with during their births and not when people are melting snow to take their pills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u272	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Mela from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you have tabled a motion of censure and ask for the resignation of the government and for elections. You're asking for elections to manage the pandemic, in fact, for bad weather. In fact, you ask why Mr. Androullakis, the new President of the Change Movement, is coming up to the polls and that makes you nervous. And it is interesting that your turn to the election issue, because if we see what Mr. Tsipras said in the previous period, we will see that he had a completely different view of the elections, "I will not ask for elections when the Greek fights for tomorrow", "I am a serious human being and we are a serious political force, when we now have more than seven and a half thousand dead and six hundred people patronized, to ask for an election?", "has it based on the Constitution's responsibility to provoke elections whenever it wants, it is not in my culture to exercise such opposition". That's what Mr. Tsipras said. What changed after the internal party elections of the Change Movement? Is the pandemic over or aren't you a serious political force? It's a rhetorical question. In this stalemate, the President of the Officer's Representation found in the bad weather "Elpida" the hope he was looking for to block his curse. So we welcome the motion of censure and thank you for this gift, because it is for us of a first-class opportunity to see your political nakedness and your inadequacy on all the important issues that have dealt with this Chamber and the Greek people in the last two and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, since July 2019 we have been invited as a government to manage many and major crises. What have we lived for these two and a half years? An ever-increasing aggression of Turkey in the Aegean and Evros, a serious migratory crisis that Turkey has worked against Greece, the pandemic of the Koroniovius and its consequences, which are still under way today, climate change with the unprecedented effects on the environment, with the fires and the weather phenomena we are experiencing, the increase in energy prices internationally, which has affected, of course, the Greek economy. Is everything all right? No, mistakes can't only be done by anyone who does nothing. But the sign in the balance of this government is positive. We have been implementing our first moment and programme, for which the Greek people gave us a strong mandate in July 2019. Of course, the pandemic acted inhibition. However, in the economic field and in the field of growth, we have gained the confidence of both foreign and domestic markets. After all, our policy has measurable results and the figures disprove the populism of counter-population. We returned to strong growth rates in 2021, reaching 6.9% and at the same levels we will move in 2022. Unemployment has fallen to 13.3% since the 17.2% that we received from SYRIZA in July 2019. In 2021, a hundred and thirty thousand more Greeks work, resulting from "ERGANI". Citizens' income was increased by 6.2% in the third quarter of 2021, according to ELSTAT. In the pandemic we went out to the markets and raised funds of 24 billion at very low interest rates. We have reduced and continue to reduce taxes. You who tabled the motion of censure, what did you do for the middle class? You have imposed seventeen new taxes and overtaxed them. We reduced the ENPIA by 22%, which you would have abolished, but you probably did not have a chance. We have reduced insurance contributions for employers and workers, a provision you did not vote on. We have increased the IMPs, doubled them, and we are on the European Union's average, I heard before Mr Polakis saying, by addressing Mrs Ghaga, that Mrs Ghaga did not mention that with EUR 5 million she increased the intensive care units in the 'Salvation'. I should like to say to Mr Polakis that, with the sponsorship of the House, which was 8 million euros, the ICMs increased by fifty. Mr Polakis' works are very expensive at the Salvation! We also reduced from 22% to 9% the income tax to 10,000 euros. We reduced the corporate tax from 29% to 22%. We reduced the tax advance from 100% to 55%. We abolished the tax on parental benefits, shielded and upgraded our country's role in our region by means of transnational agreements, such as with France and the United States of America. We supported society within the pandemic with more than EUR 43 billion. We support households and businesses with more than EUR 1.3 billion for the energy increases. We are moving rapidly towards the state's digital transformation. More than a thousand three hundred state services are now available through the ‘gov.gr’. We're turning our country into an attractive investment place. Large enterprises like MICROSOT, PFIZER, AMAZON, JP MORGAN only yesterday choose to invest in our country. In addition, in Piraeus, in the old building of HORIZE, a state of innovation with multiple benefits will be created for Piraeus, as well as for the country as a whole. We are therefore strengthening the competitiveness, the extroversion of the Greek economy and moving forward. Is that the inability of the government you're accusing us of? For all this, have you tabled the motion of censure? Is that why you want elections now? What was your responsible attitude to the difficult decisions that had to be taken for the citizens? You have sabotaged the vaccination programme, maintained in your parliamentary group for a very long time a man, a doctor, Mr Polakis, the former Deputy Minister of Health, who questioned the vaccines, refused to be vaccinated and had a negative mood in the vaccination program of almost as a leader of the anti-embryoes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have voted against the measures for compulsory vaccination in the under sixty and in the sanitary. You voted against the tightening of sentences to uninvasive parents who do not send their children to school. You have voted against the strict fines for fake vaccination certificates. You have not voted for the defensive agreement with France, and you say you will do the same with the agreement with the United States of America. You also voted against social measures, such as the measures to support the firefighting of the Recovery Fund, i.e. 32 billion for the Greek economy, for the Greek market, for growth. You have voted against teleworking in the public sector, but Mr. Zachariadis and Mr. Iliopoulou have been invoking Mr. Voridis for not operating teleworking in the public sector in the last few days. You voted against the abolition of the restrictions on the vote of Greeks abroad, the exemption of HNVIA to the remote islands, the abolition of the tax on parental benefits. You also voted against defensive expenditure in the 2022 budget. We're not the same. We are working on the progress of this place, on the future of this place. You seek identity and compass between the fifty-three, presidential, family, ecologists and the 'polactic'. These are your issues and they are not about Greek society. We are also impressed by the attitude of the new President of KINAAL, Mr Androylakis. He will vote on the motion of censure tabled by Alexis Tsipras, but he does not want elections. It reminds me of Thomas Machio, that President of Edessaic, who said "we want to, but then they didn't want to, and when we wanted to, they wanted to..." You're too close to this. But let us be serious! Let's be serious and let's understand that we can't have the whole pie and the dog full, unless because of the crowdedness that has been lately on the centre-left side you have stuck the same disease with SYRIZA. You are only interested in how you will be second and not how the country will be making progress. It really must be the first time since post-multiple so far that two parties are struggling for who will be second, because unfortunately the opposition we have the first has no opponent. We therefore allow you to address your internal concerns as long as we continue to govern the progress of this country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u274	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u275	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u276	How do you finish? You should be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u277	One thing is certain: on Sunday this government will take the vote of confidence and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group will continue to support this effort by the Prime Minister on the progress of this place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say any more about time, because I have already said so. So we're continuing with Mr. Xanthopopoulou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation discusses the motion of censure presented by the President of SYRIZA with the signature of all members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, a motion of censure which has three fundamental parameters. First, the issue of pandemic, second, the question of accuracy, and Tuesday, the issue of the exclusion of citizens and snowing that has prevailed in the capital over the last few days. First of all, with regard to the comment of my colleague, who I succeeded in the Step, I would like to point out that Paul Paulakis said an increase in the hospital's budget and not that the MIT beds cost 5 million. He talked about a five million budget increase. It had nothing to do with the IF beds.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u280	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u281	If you insist, we'll see it in the Minutes. But you're wrong. As far as the substance is concerned, and where the motion of censure is based, I am surprised, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you are not listening to the spirit of society, which does not hear the question of society and its reaction, that people in the centre of Athens, on the main roads, on a road, on Attica Road, have been excluded for several hours. And it's not just that they stayed out of their way, but that they weren't aspired to be seen by a man, to ask them if they have water, if they want anything, to give them the feeling that the state is here. This for you is 'terra incognita', you have not been involved and you always see the demographic difference from polling and you feel safe. But this country is not governed by the results of the polling companies. The country is governed by policies and the country is governed by acts. And, unfortunately, you are lagging behind in your actions. The country has the great privilege of counting twenty - three thousand dead. It's the first country per million dead. And this has the seal of government Mitsotakis. As you celebrated at the beginning of the pandemic, when the first lockdown was observed, we had excellent performance, so you must recognise your responsibility for this situation. The NHS is helpless, the vaccinations have been "remunerated", "asympathetic", the health workers are out of the NHS and you do not bring them back, and in fact, the latest is the phenomenon that these people, apart from the loss of wages, no longer have the meanings and safety they are entitled to, are uninsured, and you are slowly imposing very serious sanctions against a piece of health personnel. Actually, what do you want to say if you don't understand? You're supposed to - not to be - elected by citizens. The income ends in the third week and the rest remains, and the world wonders how it's going to overcome the problem. You say that the problem is imported, and indeed pandemic and accuracy are imported problems, but they have an accelerator, the policy of the Mitsotakis Government. And we're telling you, lower the excise duty, but for the rest you're squeezing. We told you, reduced VAT on bread and said the economy could not take it while you have "orgia" in other sectors of the economy. He asked why we refused to vote on the increase in the tax on parental benefits. Did you bring tax on parental benefits of 800,000 euros per parent, for the one and a half million to vote in favour of not paying tax on parental benefits? It's obviously not gonna happen. Who's this about? How many is this about? And you're going through this thing as a philosophical policy? But, in any case, these are the general options for which we have repeatedly spoken about. Here the occasion is that the capital stayed with its citizens in snow for hours. Today it is Friday night and there are areas of Athens that have no current. Do you think that? This is a crucial political responsibility and no one can dismiss it, precisely because there is no reasonable argument. The country went through three very serious crises in terms of weather phenomena: "Medea", the fires in Evia in the summer and now the snow. You have a political responsibility for this. We, when the fire took place in Matty, and hundreds of our fellow citizens were lost, set up a committee headed by a great man, the most competent, the Goldamer Commission, and we handed you a hundred-five-page score. You put it aside and, with your own logic, rallyed and transferred a political Cypriot, who had a homogeneous course in the European Parliament, but not in the field of purely civil protection, and which was exposed, you exposed it and along with it the whole of the country. The government's deterioration extends beyond this juncture. And as a judiciary officer, I must point out, in order to record, that the rule of law in the country is being enforced. Legislation by judges who are omitted by the legislators. Lawyers have been absent from all the money you've given professionals, although the courts have been running for two years. Judiciary officers are ignored in all areas where you are going to bring justice. Journalists practicing investigative journalism shall be persecuted. We have already become a headline in 'LE MONDE'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. The association of European journalists has ranked us in the countries similar to Orban, where freedom of the press is curtailed and, of course, the Legal Council of the State unanimously gave us the mandate, gave the government, the country the mandate to exercise the rights deriving from the NOVARTIS scandal and to claim compensation from the company and so far you have done nothing. Finally, on the basis of the new Banking Code, people lose their homes, funds make 70% in auctions, banks 22% and private individuals only 8%. In essence, a society is poor and you are watching unsuccessful, because, as the colleague of the New Democracy said before, there is no alternative. There is an alternative, the motion of censure to become a proposal of progressive openness, elections with a mere analogy and a progressive government to take over the country. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u282	Mr Andrianos from New Democracy has the floor now, followed by Mr Consolas.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say a word about the previous colleague, that your party's progressive governance has seen it, that the Greek people have lived in your term of office, which we almost remember, to lead the country to the rocks. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no citizen of this country, regardless of the extent to which it monitors the political topicality, not fully aware of the real reason why dedicated opposition caused this process. SYRIZA accepts an unbearable demographic pressure today, and this is a key parameter that has obviously led you - because I think the colleague mentioned three parameters before - I think that you should table this motion of censure. On the one hand, the difference with New Democracy remains stable after two and a half years of governance in the most difficult conditions, pandemic conditions, external energy crisis, exacerbation of Turkish aggression - and here I would like to remind you that you did not vote for the agreement with France that was, in fact, a crucial element in tackling Turkish aggression - and, of course, we are dealing with and dealing with the extreme weather, such as the recent snowstorm. On the other hand, you are pressing, you see, even threatening, the prospect of taking second place in the next elections by the Change Movement, PASOK. SYRIZA's aim, therefore, with this motion of censure, is simply to overcome the inner-party problems that have arisen and, of course, to rally his party audience and that is why he seeks polarisation. However, what deserves not to be taken into account is that the institutional weapon of the motion of censure too often can be turned backwards. This is because, through an all-material debate, the major, real, qualitative and measurable differences between the political forces are underlined. It is precisely these differences that emerge even more emphatically through this debate, which, of course, produce the very problem that SYRIZA has. On the occasion of this debate, the consequences of recent bad weather, a few more can be said after the Prime Minister's statements. It is clear that there are still gaps and shortcomings in dealing with such events and these gaps concern both cooperation between the various levels of state, central government, regions, municipalities and the readiness of each of these levels separately. So it is - and remains - what political power has the will and the ability to improve this situation. And here the result of the comparison is clear. Suffice to compare the attitude of the current Prime Minister's honesty with the various communication tricks attempted by the SYRIZA government and the then Prime Minister in the tragedy in Eye. It is enough to compare the specific initiatives taken by the current government, with the first stepping up of civil protection, after the complete inertia of the previous SYRIZA government. Suffice it to see the determination of the current government to immediately record damage to plant and production from recent glacier - and I am referring to Argolida - because the damage is large in citrus, vegetable and other crops. And here I would like to point out that immediately the ELGA and its President come to the affected areas and will be in Argolida tomorrow too, on Tuesday, so that they can see and progress quickly so that there can be a fair compensation for the affected. And, of course, it is sufficient to compare the broader results produced by the current government in all critical areas of public policy with the corresponding performance of the previous period. The most characteristic example, of course, is the course of our national economy. Our country, after the harsh adventure of the economic crisis, met almost immediately after the new adventure of the pandemic. In this extremely difficult environment, therefore, the banning and great disruption of the global supply chains, a world treaty that has become even more difficult than the simultaneous energy crisis, the Greek economy and upright remains and its prospects for a dynamic and sustainable development in the next period are recognised by all valid analysts and international organisations. With targeted actions, we have drastically reduced the effects of pandemic on the real economy and households. We are strengthening investment and real jobs. We effectively reduce the tax and insurance burden borne by Greeks and Greeks. We are dealing with the impact of the external increase in energy prices and inflationary pressures, and at the same time we have guaranteed funds totalling EUR 80 billion from the Recovery and Resistance Fund and the new NSRF, to strengthen the economy and to move to a new and dynamic productive model for our country. Greeks and Greeks, like the whole planet, live the great adventure of the pandemic. So we had to shut down for a long time in our homes. We have seen businesses blocking temporarily, in the context of the forced measures to limit infections, but no one has the slightest doubt that a SYRIZA government would manage this treaty more effectively, especially when the Civic Antipolitics insists on a sterile practice of zeroing and demagogicism, one day closing the eye on anti-invaders and the other day calling for even more stringent measures. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks and Greeks, in their overwhelming majority, regardless of ideological payments, are absolutely certain today that in all the critical fields, in the management of the pandemic and the external energy crisis, in the economy and development, in foreign policy, in education, in health, despite the fact that there are problems and gaps - because, as Minister Gaga said, there are shortcomings in doctors' specialities - in digital reform, there is not even a question of comparing the New Democracy with SYRIZA, neither at the level of the principles and proposals nor much more at the level of the result of the policies applied. The comparison made by SYRIZA with this proposal of distrust can therefore only be interpreted as a despair move. In any case, the current government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis will continue to take responsibility for doing all the commitments that we have made in the run-up to the citizens and for which we will be judged at the end of the four-year period, a society of well-being, of propaganda and justice for a modern state, for a strong and proud Greece. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Consolas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely interesting at this time to discuss and table both ideas and proposals and to criticise them. I am pleased that the majority of colleagues are tabling their arguments with decency. However, there are also colleagues - a portion of colleagues from the Civic Opposition - who unfortunately dynamise this climate and this debate is toxic and I think we should not contribute to it. I was pleased that Mr Andrianos before - but I will also try to - did not contribute to this toxicity, and even at a time when there is a need for the place to exist in these very important, critical issues of a single attitude, because the citizens are severely judging. I note, however, that SYRIZA seems unaware and has not understood and acted like he never ruled this place. And they show it many attitudes but also behaviors, and the leadership and its MPs. And SYRIZA conducts himself as if they had not happened during this governance of natural disasters, which have spent very difficult days citizens due to the damage, the environmental diversions we had the previous period and as if they have not experienced our fellow people's losses. And I'm surprised, then, that's their behavior. I would remind you that there are also two public prosecutors' findings on the murderous fire in Matti and on the floods in Mandra, which have been linked to the loss of our fellow people and have highlighted the responsibilities of the state mechanism at that time. These are findings that should have been included in their thinking and culture by colleagues before going up to this step and, at least, by those who will speak in the next few days, I hope they will be included in their thinking and withdraw these events from their short-term memory. Because these events form a toxicity and a divisional climate. And it is not my intention, at least, to make it clear that there is a set-aside procedure for the events that I have mentioned, no! On the contrary. I take this debate today - and in the next few days I hope other colleagues will hopefully also - as a debate that we will be able to put forward ideas and suggestions in order to improve this very important perspective of the civil protection mechanism, after all the latest events, but above all of the Prime Minister's reference, which was fair, upright and brave, to apologise to the citizens, and also to refer to this need for the development of civil protection. In fact, the Prime Minister addressed, not at the inner audience, messages, positions and suggestions, but addressed to the Greek citizen, the Greek citizen who has to listen and understand what a Prime Minister feels and apologizes, a "sort" that has not been heard in previous years by the previous government, by the previous Prime Minister. And that's a assumption and a poem that we all had, since we know what happened and what position the previous leadership had taken on it. The Prime Minister, therefore, in the past few days, recognised the mistakes made and the failures of others, which, as a result, did not respond to the burden of responsibility and their role. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to remember the oldest of you in the Chamber reporting from the previous Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, who felt the pressure from his Government's responsibility for the far ship of the ship "SAMINA" said that "this is Greece". Ladies and gentlemen, we do not understand Greece like what Mr Simitis said. The Prime Minister was right in pointing out that changes are needed. The creation of the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection is the beginning of these changes. It is a major reform that still has a way of being more effective. Anyone who wants to make a positive contribution to this debate should do so today, in the next few days with proposals, such as the one I put forward today, which is what the Ministry needs, that is to say. Can't with less than 50 people operate this ministry with all the target that we've all set ourselves. The development of a new model of operation of the Ministry of Civil Protection to be the single centre under which all the structures, staff and logistics of the state will be located, and indeed both levels - the first and second degrees - of self-government, in order to have a single coordination centre that takes decisions and, above all, it will take responsibility is very important that we should discuss it in the next period. In the summer that passed us and on the occasion of the events on the ground with the fires I submitted to the Ministry and also to the public a proposal for the creation of a single fire-fighting structure in each region, naturally subordinate to the Ministry of Civil Protection. The single fire-fighting structure will also include infrastructure that will coordinate the staff of all stakeholders, such as the Fire-fighting Agency, the Self-government and non-governmental organisations helping in this direction. This proposal also reflects a programme commitment. I therefore think it will find space in the next period to be seriously discussed by the Ministry's leadership. The aim of this proposal is, on the one hand, speed and effectiveness in the management of fires and, on the other, the coordination of all operators with sufficient air forces that will move directly and specific ground forces that will be attempting rapidly in each region and in coordination with the Ministry of Civil Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, on matters such as civil protection, but also on the way to pandemic, there is only one way to reach agreement and consensus. From there on, however, there are also political issues that we cannot hide and pass. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me one more minute. The Chief of Officer Response is a pretext that he is pressed and understood by an indirect position of colleagues from the Officerial Response. It is pressed by the decline of its public image and the constant decline of SYRIZA percentages, is pressed by the threat that KINAL feels, is being pushed by the inner-party questioning of his choices. It seems that these three factors have led him to submit a motion of censure which seems to be against the government. In fact, however, he was testified to confront the opposition officer and his Chief of Staff of the above-mentioned three serious problems that have existed for some time. The Government of New Democracy has been responsible for governance for thirty-two months. I would like to remind you that he has dealt with very serious issues, such as, for example, the invasion of Evros led by the deep Turkish state, and it is useful to remember the attitude of the Officer at that time. There was no attitude, there was no support.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u286	I'm sorry, Mr. Katsy's talking right after that, and he'll answer right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u287	In addition, the government has been called upon to deal with very important issues that have arisen and appear from the citizens' reaction to recognise its efforts - and let us pass on this report to the polls. I will invoke the social climate. The fact is that after all this, the government and the Prime Minister still have a strong print and a clear head start and the fact is that the Qualified Opposition is constantly retreating and is not trusted by the citizen. It's data no one gets past. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'Sunday short holiday' tells our people. On Sunday there will be a vote of confidence in the government and the Prime Minister and very soon, in a year and a half, you will also see the results of the forthcoming elections where citizens will recognize the work of this government and the Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u288	I'm not talking about time, I said it. Mr. Katsis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I listen to the Members of the New Democracy and the members of the ruling party and even Ministers, who have obviously undisturbed a non-document given to them by the Maximos Mansion, and they must really be in a very bad position, in a very difficult position to invoke - instead of defending the facts of the government - a poll that took place on the second day after the snow, 25 January, when the roads were closed, in a sample of three hundred people, not on the limits of the statistical size that one has to take to ensure proportionality and even day of general holidays. You must be desperate to invoke such a poll, instead of coming here and telling us about your things. But that's what we'll see, 'cause we're the ones who made the move, and we'll see it all. It has been two and a half years since the New Democracy of the Lord Mitsotakis came out of a powerful government. They've got regularity, an increase in available income, technocratic excellence, and an enduring state that will work. In short, they promised to become a Europe. That's public. Because behind closed doors everything has been found in all kinds of aggressive interests. They fed antiSYRIZA hatred, charging to SYRIZA tons of propaganda all the pathogens of the country, as if there were no country before 2015. But two and a half years later the masks fell, and the account time finally came. Because citizens pay very dearly the Mitsotakis Government. You have plunged Greek society into depression. Wherever you look around, you see misery and misery. Where are we today? Why are you on board? The country has less GDP in absolute numbers since 2019 when you received it. At the same time, it has a higher external debt and at the same time it has deficits. So you were poor in the country. Citizens due to cutbacks in benefits, with their wages settled, but also to the market seated by inefficient lockdowns have reduced their available income. So you have been poor both the country and the majority of the citizens. Are the efficient technicians of Harvard and Columbia in the costumes that manage crises? In the rain buses and houses are drowning, with pandemic first in deaths in the last five months in the European Union, with snow being excluded and left without power, the fires are fading out into the sea. The "excellent" proved to be a bunch of incompetent and dangerous gold carpets that have not learned to work, but only to give orders. And what are they telling us? It's the public's fault, it's the meteorologists, it's the old houses, it's the masks that aren't "FFP2", it's all Mr. Mitsotakis. But because reality is annoying citizens, then apologies begin. "I'm sorry" for the bike in Parnitha, "I'm sorry" for the coronary in Ikaria, "I'm sorry" for Evia and Varymbobi, "I'm sorry" for the verbal mistake that there is no study that there is more mortality apart from Ikaria. And like this, Kyriakos Mitsotakis of "Moses" - according to the list of Petsa - became "Sefferlis", as said by Mr. Portasalte of SCAI. The only things that work right in this country - because we have to recognise it - are stranding and propaganda. On the one hand we have the exploitation of the pandemic to share EUR 5 billion in one and a half years direct assignments to friends of the best friend, and on the other hand we have the built regime in the media with Pizza lists, the gift of the 2021 dose for television licenses, the continuous service even on subjugated teleshops, such as Mr Furthiotis. The number two of the government, Mr. Gerapetritis, was legislating at his request. And o of the miracle, what he wrote on SMS was included as articles in the Lebanese Media Bill last year in "Medea", which erased the retrospective fines of the National Broadcasting Council and settled the teleshopping slots. Shame and decline. And of course we have the polls that smell Kurts and Sarkozy. Chancellor of Austria resigned for a comprehensive poll. The President of France sees his advisers go to jail for the same reason. But this is not what is happening here in Greece. Here we are in Europe. As long as citizens deplore the government, opposition will receive it. When all your policies fail, you say 'yes, but in polls we take precedence'. Take the lead, of course, in the direct awards of state money and in the owners of companies, as we have shown in the cases of "Opinion Poll", "InterVIEW" by Mr Georgiadis and, more recently, "ABACUS" for which we have now appealed to Parliament, and in the control of the polls to check and get answers. Finally, we have the state-of-the-art IX fund with privileged relations with Maximos take with capital increases state-of-the-art clothing and private businesses. The greatest restructuring of Greek capitalism over the next 50 years is under way. Ladies and gentlemen, a motion of censure. Form because we're asking for the worst post-multiple government to leave. You have a powerless government, all of self-government, you have salted the state and the independent authorities, you have had thirty - seven billion and budgetary relaxation. So the whole responsibility is yours, the New Democracy. And you failed, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in everything. You're government - fiasco. You are part of the problem and not of the solution, Minister. We saw it with the pandemic. You made Lockdown to save human lives sacrificing the economy. Eventually you also destroyed the economy, and we have a record of deaths because you hate the National Health System. We've actually seen it. You are market freedom monitors. We've got the most expensive megawattage now and the basic species have stretched 30%. Prices, that is, northern Europe, but Balkan wages. In natural disasters, what did you do? Snow? Rain? Fire? Noah's destruction. The government is just throwing responsibility from here. Eventually you're only an ideal state in the spring. Ladies and gentlemen, we must put an end to a brake on this hood. We are asking for elections to leave this destructive government. We are asking for a political change to save lives, for the twenty-three thousand dead with one of the worst performances in deaths per million in the world, not just in Europe. For the Chiodra - Lytra study that says it could have saved 38% of those lost if we had strengthened the ESS. For our fellow citizens who can't make the month because of the accuracy and declining of their wages. Because we have the most expensive electricity in Europe and we are at the bottom of wages. For young people who can't find a job to make a family. For the education that the government turns it from a commodity to a commodity. For the pensioners who lost their thirteenth pension and were deceived with the retrospectives who took half of them back and forth. For healthy businesses at risk of enclosure due to burdens and reduced turnover. For the agricultural world that is suffocating under price pressure on supplies. For the general insecurity and misery that prevails in society. For free briefings with Petsa lists, North Korean polls and Aximous Broadcastings to editors and journalists, and at the same time they are prosecuting research journalism and sitting clarinet in every Furthiote. We're asking for elections because it's enough. We must end with this throat, to pay as Nemesis the arrogance of your authority. That is why we call on the opposition parties and all democratic citizens of this country to join our demand for political change so that a new progressive government with SYRIZA and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras can bring the country, society and the economy back to the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u290	Mr Liakos has the floor from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Delis, Mr. Mandas, Mrs. Gara and Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin as the newest Member I cannot fail to point out that we are talking about best forms of administration and respect and the vast majority of Members from all the Chairs are unable to observe the time set. So I'm going straight to the point of the conversation. With today's motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition and its Chief, my conviction was greatly strengthened that Mr Tsipras is a opportunist, regularist and deceitful politician. And I'm explaining. He is a opportunist because the only thing to which he has remained faithful and consistent is his obsession with SYRIZA's leadership. Regularist because he is strugglingly seeking to seek political oxygen, without, of course, passing through his mind to exercise a serious and responsible opposition. He did not even participate in the more general climate of national upheaval that dominated the Greeks on the grounds of strengthening the Air Force with combatants Rapha. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you mistreat and mistreat by carrotizing for a moment of crisis. But let me tell you something that might escape you. No crisis will be like the one that gave you the opportunity to emerge into the political scene of the country. And you know why? For this government and, personally, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis is building a relationship of trust between every Greek citizen and the state. A relationship that is the great legacy of his administration. A relationship that ensures the smoothness, regularity and health of our political system. That is why he did not hesitate to apologize sincerely and honestly to the citizens who were troubled in Attica. But that's not all she's left in. He asked and won the immediate compensation of 2,000 euros for each locked car from the management company, which is the first time in Greek. Compensation will also be paid for those who travelled with TRAINOSE and who have been unjustly troubled. And I would stress here that the provision of compensation in the event that they do not fulfil their obligations has been added to the concession agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion of censure has been tabled on the pretext of breaking the relationship of trust between the citizen and the state. I can list you dozens of government initiatives in this direction which have been ideologically voted against by SYRIZA. I'm going to mention a few examples. You have voted against the insurance reform and the new subsidiary fund. It's a law dealing exclusively with the future of my generation and making young people trust the public insurance system again. You voted against the working draft, which enables workers to use all modern methods to use their working time and personal time. You are responsible for the great work produced in the Ministry of Digital Governance thanks to which millions of citizens are facilitated by making easy access to dozens of public services and gaining every day a lot of time. You systematically underestimate throughout the pandemic the majority of the Greeks who chose to be vaccinated, thus flirting with conspiracies. Finally - and that is why I think that you are still living in deceit - you are unable to understand the titanic effort that the entire state mechanism has been giving every day over the last two years. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not say a minute that there were no operational errors. I'm not looking for excuses. After all, each of us is judged on the result. I cannot, however, give the following explanations to the current government: the great importance it attaches to civil protection. 2019 on your day was an office. Today it's a whole ministry. The strict priority over all costs in protecting human life. Proof of this is the proper functioning of ‘112’. The repeated unprecedented crises that have been called upon to deal with: the refugee, pandemic, climate change, the energy crisis. Our society, ladies and gentlemen, uses a wise saying: 'Latis does not only do who does not work'. So, it's not about making mistakes. It is important that you first recognize them and then take the necessary steps so that they do not happen again. The vote on the motion of censure to the government is a given, not only for the positive it has done but for something much deeper. Because I owe it to the vast majority of my fellow citizens, who every day thinks what would happen if SYRIZA were government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u292	Thank you for the time. He now has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we are voting against the New Democracy Government, as we voted against all the previous anti-grassroots governments, who, in their policy on the profits of the few, have broken the lives of our people. Anti-popular governments one after another, and their labels would change. Their priorities have always been the needs of business groups, capital gains and a state adapted first and foremost to them, so-called investors. What about the needs of the people of modern, pressurized? He waited for you and always uncovered, sacrifice on the altar of merchandise for the profits of capital. And that, you know, has not only come out of this again, the snow anticipated before, Evia polypathic and repeated winter disasters - summer in our country with dozens, in fact, lost lives. The difficult day-to-day life of the people's families and children shows this all the time because of your policy. Do you want to talk about where your governments are stacking today, in 2022, thousands of four-year-old and five-year-old children, infants, pre-school education? Aren't you the ones turning them into a container and a kibo in the schoolyards of primary, high school and high school? SYRIZA voted for it, the New Democracy is doing so today. But you both refused to give up a euro in order to become the kindergartens they need. There are millions, however, with the scoop for airlines and the concessionaires on roads that do not get enough with tolls and want more to trouble us with the first snow. Do you want to talk about the schools in the pandemic that operate thanks to the heroic effort and the simplicity of their teachers? How's your government? Don't tell me about the suffering of telecommunications, from which one out of four children was even excluded. Refugee, from the first moment you refuse, to dilute the sections as, as the Minister of Education said, 'this costs the state', since apart from spaces, which are not difficult to find, they need - you see - and teachers. And if there are thousands of undetermined teachers and even now, in the middle of the year, thousands of teachers from schools throughout the country are missing. Yes, I do! Only one of the three billion you give for the Rafahs would - yes, it would be enough with the above - to simulate all thousands, wandering years now, substitutes. And instead of making sure there are permanent work as many cleaners as they need in schools today, you unearth them in fatigue and above you go and squeeze the few euros from their heavy and unhealthy work. When? At the time you share a bonus of tens of thousands of euros in the Golden Boys of the TEDO because, he says, they caught the goals and saved a lot of profits for PPC's shareholders, charging to the people and the accuracy of the current and the frequent blackouts on the electricity grid. Not to talk about the health protocols of the 50+1 schools that operate in practice as over-transmission protocols. Let's not talk about limiting the quarantine in five days. And the parent's the one who's going to be sick of his child, 'cause then you got him to lose half of his week. And if we go to the universities that opened this year just as they did, under the same conditions, a year and a half ago, do you know what your Government thinks of as their main problem? Not the amphitheatres and the urban buses at which the coronary party is partying, not the lack of student care at the homes of abandonment and shame, not the downgraded aspects of unemployment, but lawlessness. But don't go to the toddler's toddler's and university's mistress S.A., recently revealed. A mission from the University Police, after all, is precisely the university's business to support. SYRIZA now consents to the University Police as long as she says she's in the dean. You're no longer supporting university asylum, are you asking SYRIZA? Just say it clearly. But together with the COVID pandemic came the pandemic of measures. Measures for schools, work measures - the well-known Hatzidakis law - all with a common goal: Preparing tomorrow's cheap and persuasive workers from the capitalist jungle. In schools, these measures operate as skills workshops at the expense of knowledge, as a multiple book, as an assessment, as a minimum basis for introduction and follow new curriculum programs with the same old rustled materials of fragmentation and immortality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President, for more than a minute. These measures came to do, he says, our schools autonomously, that is to say, to pay even more in their pockets and to get these schools into categories and shelves, according to which they will choose their books for their students. You see, it is for all these years that the European Union and BSE have been shouting, and that is what is being promoted and implemented in education, in turn, by all governments. SYRIZA has instituted the high school examination centre, even saying then he will hit the schools. And the New Democracy is now coming to take it off with the Topic Bank. SYRIZA defended the so-called autonomy of schools and the New Democracy is now coming to implement it. SYRIZA used much and legislated for the evaluation and now the New Democracy comes to implement it, with the victims of children and school in need today. At your school, at the school of New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL, freelance enter business-speaking, supposedly sponsors with the undeserved. In your school they are free to smuggle various NGOs and other "good" institutions of capital. In your school, unreservedly, fascist groups like Eusmos and Stavroupolis are struggling with the state mechanism from above to down to whistle indifferently. At your school, the European Union may have a permanent rebellion to advertise capitalist barbarism in youth consciences, but the collective claim of pupils for a school and for a life worthy of their needs and dreams is hard persecuted by prosecutors and other state officials. They even reached the IEK addresses to forbid even the students' elections for their club and call the police, as if the students were criminals! But this youth, together with the people, will also make you the most fundamental reliance on their struggles for class and with the JRC, of course, firmly next to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u294	Mr Mandash has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I really believe that we need to congratulate both the Chief of Staff and the entire Group of the European Parliament on another commendable originality that they are doing through this motion of censure. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is usually those governments that are sometimes divided by the burden of governance, which may seek out courses which may be unbearable in dealing with difficult issues and which sometimes pay great political costs, and which is why they may seek communication. But here today we are confronted with the paradox: the government should rule, but SYRIZA should be the one being pressed. The government to lift the burden, but SYRIZA to be the one who can't raise a head. The government to reform, modernise, improve and rationalise, face challenges at all levels, in Evros and the Aegean, on the forefront of pandemic, in the economy, education, security, climate change and in all these fields to give battle and the country to change and take a step-by-step new person and turn a new page, but SYRIZA still is the one that is politically entangled. And for that very reason with communication fireworks, he is trying to stop and manoeuvre finally to change the agenda. So let us all be honest, ladies and gentlemen, for the purposes and objectives of this motion of censure, because the truth is that neither the government is going to fall nor is the country going to be head-on in order to serve the micro-political aspirations and tactics of Mr Tsipras and his party. So the truth is one, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We have learned you very well and have known you for many years, even since you ruled and found everything well-built, since we had Mandra and Matti, but also the refugee, the Prespes, the over-taxation and the bleeding of the middle class, and the supposedly thirteenth pension, as well as the puppet, you win a few more votes. We taught you from the competitions - parody for the channels and the curbing referendums, as well as from the "NOVARTIS" brand that is finally led to the file. And I wonder, do you have the guts and the pity to say an apology for this attack on your political opponents, for this mud you've thrown, for that kind of construction you've set up? An apology to these people you have to say? We have taught you all these years and now we understand that whenever you are in a difficult position and when your inadequacy strikes red, a new turbulence discovers to upset the balances as if you could even win something. You're gonna tell me that, of course, you know what you're doing. And that is surely a truth because you really have been caught up and pressed by polls, whenever the riddles and the inner question upset your party balances, your tactics have been one and have been known for a long time: to create a new crisis, to create a new tension, to carry out a new political resalto, if you may find yourself in a power trajectory. However, the plan has been frozen and you no longer have the margin to play the country in the dice. You asked for elections when you yourself spent your time. And now you're asking the government to fall because you say it's catastrophic. What exactly do you want to do, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Can you come to power? You who are not even able to hold a conference that you have not even formulated, which you have not even developed? And I ask you directly: How will this country be governed? How will difficult decisions be made? How will multiple crises be dealt with? Through progressive governance and other fairy tales and greetings? Through arrogant cheetah and turtle turtle? So this is your alternative proposal? That is why the government must fall in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of extreme phenomena, in the midst of Turkish challenges, in the midst of social fatigue? Destroy this government and its huge reform work to the chaos and ambiguity that only suits you? So if you want to hear it, listen to what people say about you. Citizens do not want to think about what would happen if today during this harsh health crisis and the unprecedented energy test we expected solutions from the ministers of the then-government Tsipras - Kammenos. How would people who didn't even think there were vaccines? How would Lockdown be imposed by the people who argued that constitutional freedoms were being violated? How would those who were willing to take the risk of the protesters getting just to outward their revolutionary oestrus? How would Europeans make us alike and want us to leave the European Union? So, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, that's not what we're gonna do with you. The Greeks demand a better, more efficient, more operational, one safer country and require in two years that we restore the mistakes of four decades. That's our cubit, and we've really put him up too high. But to him, all of us will be counted. That is why we are reducing taxes, which is why we are increasing incomes, so we are reforming an ageing state, so we are supporting growth and protecting labour, because we are the responsible party, the patriotic force that assumes responsibility and the mistakes that it has learned to apologise, so that it becomes better and worthy of citizens' confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u296	Mrs Anastasia Gara has the floor from SYRIZA. We'll finish with Mrs. Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution. Here you go, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u297	'I'm cold'. 'I'm hungry.' 'I'm afraid'. ‘Retirement’. ‘Great’. 'They are incompetent'. 'They are analgesable'. 'They are liars'. "Let us go away." These phrases, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will hear how to speak everywhere in Greece if you come out of the well - glazed glass in which you live. If you walk in the neighborhoods of the country, you will understand that these words dominate the feelings and thoughts and mouths of Greeks and Greeks. If you dare look at them in the eyes, you will see anger, despair and suffocation. And that voice, that anger, that feeling has to make political change. Go to save society, save democracy, save the country, save our lives, because it is no longer going. That's all the way across the country. Every day that passes, you leave behind debris, you degrade the dignity and faith of the people and you break up with their endurances. Within two years you have managed to dismantle and sell everything, everything that existed in this country. You are looting public funds as if there is no public money tomorrow, and not even a single euro is directed at society. The 37 billion "cushion" left you by SYRIZA, so that the country can stand on its feet at difficult times like the ones we are experiencing, turn them into ruffles, direct assignments, hatreds and leaps of "blue children", that is, what traditionally knows how to do right-time. You leave the country at the mercy of the pandemic. Full failure to threaten the lives and health of the citizens. They are unprotected citizens with an RU which you have never supported. We have hundreds of dead people every day, which for you cynically are just numbers. Every week they erase entire villages from the map. It's just numbers for you. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, people are not numbers. You've broken up the schools and universities. Refuse stubbornly to shield them sanitarily from the start of the crisis. With the dangerous protocol of "50%+1" we have daily contractions in schools. In Evros, in my region, in northern Greece, departments are closed every day and those that stay open are frozen and children learn with blankets. I guess you'd see the photos released these days. Really, have you learned at minus five degrees, gentlemen? Could you send your children to such rooms to take a class at minus five points with windows open? And that is not enough, the universities, the region, thousands of families still count their wounds from the application of the minimum import base. Deforestation and exclusion. You sacrifice young people to win a few private friends of yours. Refugee to hire teachers. Refugee to hire doctors and nurses. You are equal to daily working rights. You plunge citizens into poverty and insecurity. Close hospitals, close health centers, dismantle HSH, close services. You are an undetermined government, a tourist government, a government which is indifferent to the needs of society, a government of spectators against unprecedented accuracy and ashes sweeping households and businesses. Lucetta, poverty in society. Professionals, small and medium-sized, merchants, farmers, producers are driven into economic suffocation every day on your own responsibility and you are mocking them by saying: "It's not what you think", as if the glorious bills in the current that come every month are a lie, you won't be invited to pay them. You are consciously degrading the region, declining services and public structures necessary for the service of citizens in remote outermost regions, no matter what the infrastructure, you are cutting off pensions, you are tearing down the future. Dedevelopment, desertification, poverty, unemployment. What have you got to tell the citizens that you promised growth and good jobs, and today you have abandoned them at mercy? What do you say to the young children who cut their dreams and keep going abroad? But you also failed in Civil Protection with the country to remain unprotected by all phenomena, without planning, without planning, without efficiency, without the performance you have so advertised, with the country burning in summer and winter in the first snow of thousands of households leaving without electricity and heating. And Mr Mitsotakis thinks, and he also advertises that, that the dignity of this people will buy it off with 2,000 euros. How much more will you insult Greek society? How much longer will you insult our intelligence? Ladies and gentlemen, with a New Democracy Government, democracy itself is in danger. You've devastated the rule of law. You are easing your institutions every day, trespassing rights, abolishing citizens' freedoms, authoritarianism and propaganda, and drowning every democratic function in this country. At the time of Mitsotakis, you see, you are not allowed to talk, you are not allowed to investigate, you are not allowed to do your job if you are a journalist, if you are not subject to the system and the checks of "Loudovik". Split the country internationally, gentlemen, trying to fade the annoying voices. Journalists are being persecuted in our country and threatened with incredible indictments because they dare to reveal scandals, that is to say, to do their job. Information and pluralism in our country today are severely affected by the government of New Democracy. You buy the information with millions of euros from the Pecha lists, public money. You are feeding Meadows to savage you on the night when you are no matter what the needs of society. The chair, you see, she's sweet and you need to take care of her. Ladies and gentlemen, the last delusions have now been broken up. The Mitsotakis system, this anti-corruption staff today, is naked and dangerous for society. Complication, corruption, opacity, propaganda, waste, authoritarianism, constant catastrophe. These are the characteristics of your policy that turns the country back decades. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall now conclude, Mr President. However, you do not have the right to draw an entire society. You have no right to draw a proud Greek people. The hypocritical apologies of the Prime Minister no longer convince anyone. They're angry, they're persuasive, they're angry. It is necessary, therefore, for the country to return, in order to make a new start, to get rid of fear, to drive away the insecurity and uncertainty imposed by the Mitsotakis regime, to turn despair and anger into a power of turn, to a power of change, to protect this society. Get out of here so this world can finally breathe. That is why we are tabling a motion of censure, since many colleagues have wondered before. That is why we are addressing a democratic, progressive, patriotic call to all citizens, to get rid of the worst, most abstract, most destructive government in this country. So go away, because this people deserve much more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u298	Thank you. We will close the procedure with Mrs Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the problems that have occurred over the last three days. Elpis storm. How much more should your Government see to do selflessly? You left helpless people in the literality of God’s mercy in the snow. We need immediate solutions for such problems. One of the main pillars of our state is education and needs radical restructuring. Instead, you've been going down all the time of your government. Our schools and universities since the beginning of the pandemic have gone through fire and iron. Greece was one of the countries where the closure of schools kept many children away from the educational process and its benefits. Unfortunately, we belong to countries that do not have a national education strategy. Neither you nor your predecessors of the older governments did anything to change this. Continuous reforms, continuous changes, without solving any problems. How many times have we told you to set up an intergroup committee to draw up a 12-year training programme that will apply unreservedly any political or state mechanism has power? Uncircumcised. And here's the results. In March 2020, distance learning began as an alternative means of teaching. You dated all proudly and told us that our country has won the teletext bet. However, for the quality of telecommunications, no talk. Although teachers were not required by Law 4807 of 2021, without any previous training and without any state aid, they ran on their own to buy computers, equip their homes with strong online connections, form spaces suitable and quiet in their homes to convert them into school classes. With our question in June 2021 under protocol number 7077 on 4-6-2021, we asked the Ministry of Education to pay the teachers directly. But then, you refused it and now you're running to collect the uncollected with a voucher to teachers and the members of special educational staff and special assistant staff. The National Foundation for Educational Research in England has counted, as we will testify in the Minutes, vertical decline in skills in mathematics, reading and writing to primary students. According to previous estimates, the fall in learning level due to teleworking will cost huge amounts of lost income to the students of this generation. There is talk of incalculable damage to students. Have you taken all this into account or sleep in the law? I guess the second one. As far as the Greek university is concerned, students in Greece today are afraid to go to the university because of the lawlessness in the spaces and around it. The complete shielding of university incomings is one of the main proposals - requirements of the Greek Solution. We stressed and stressed that entry should only take place on a special card and concern only those who have the right to be in the university space. In this way, any breacher and anyone who destroys it will be prevented from being forced to pay and to take responsibility for the damages. We are in favour of asylum ideas and that is unnegotiable. But we are against asylum, illegality, crime and hoodiers. But one year has passed and we still expect you to implement the law. No improvement has been seen either in the conditions of accessibility, not to mention the lack of digital accessibility even on the Ministry of Education's website. Move at turtle rate at a time that keeps running at the speed of light. Do you know that in public IEK the abandonment rate is even greater than in universities? In 2019, the percentage of those who graduated was 41.5% of new entrants. This is not because of the difficulty, but mainly because of the way in which the IEK operates. Without their own buildings, with posted administrative staff, with part-time teachers of 98.8% job cannot be done. Has the Ministry of Education ever done a thorough investigation into this leak? Because of your bad choices in managing the operation of schools at a time of pandemic, which unfortunately continue the educational community lamented the loss of many teachers. In May 2020, the measure of the rotation of schools with much less cases had yielded. We proposed this to you for the opening of schools in September 2020. It was proposed by the experts who, as you said, decided on the basis of their proposals. You said in a statement that you were considering it. You don't do it and the schools are back in two months. It could have been this year. You didn't do it again. We're putting it all in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Sophia - Haido Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The consequences, as you can see, are devastating. As for the gaps, they hold. The example of Kefalonia and Ithaca. And how many more. In the absence of school guidance in high school and 1 in high school. Delay or cancellation to PSA apprenticeship classes. Late vocational training schools and OAED’s professional apprenticeship schools, as they still did not start, although the law has been passed since December 2020. Degradation of second-rate schools. You've got our education moving on the autopilot. They don't fit semimeters in what's got to do with it. And you, with everything you've done to date, lead it to a cliff without turning around. Another major wound which we should point out at every opportunity is that our young people - about six hundred thousand - who left abroad in the years of the crisis and the memoranda to find jobs in countries outside Greece. We must give them opportunities and opportunities to return to our country. We in the Greek Solution, with concrete and targeted proposals, consider that the need for an effective solution to the accumulated problems of education must be a lasting priority. But it's not. The distortions are many and instead of being reduced and resolved, they are gigantic. Build the Greek school and the Greek university correctly, with the main aim of the continuity of our Greekism and orthodox. Now, before it's too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that tomorrow we will start with Mr. Logiadis George and immediately thereafter with Mr. Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-28-S1-commons.u301	With the consent of the House at 3.33 p.m. the sitting is closed for Saturday, January 29, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, continuation of the debate on the motion of censure against the government submitted by the Chief of Civilian Representation and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Alexis Tsipras, and eighty-four Members of the Parliamentary Group, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
