ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are now entering the agenda for the sitting. LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Under the Agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture'. The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, only those who object to this ratification for five minutes, as well as the parliamentary representatives of the parties, provided, of course, that the Heads of State or Government will not speak. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The floor can be given by the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, who voted "in" and by the speaker from Mera25, Mr. Logiadis, who is reservation on the bill. The floor is held by F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. As we have also mentioned in the committee, which preceded today's plenary, in the debate of this bill, the objective of this agreement and other relevant international agreements, it is to facilitate the penetration of Greek business groups, in this case in the agricultural and agri-food sectors on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union's strategic choices to extend to new markets, in this case in the countries of the wider Caucasus, Caspian region, etc. All this is done in order to develop new areas of profitability for plumbing, Greek, Armenian business groups of the European Union, through business groups partnerships, the use of money from the European Union, international organisations and other financial institutions. In addition, the same text states that the aim of the agreement is to encourage the creation of business consortia. Thus, the Government of New Democracy today, taking over from the previous SYRIZA government, like all successively from previous governments so far, and with the same propaganda investment, presents the agreements as development agreements and in line with its policy of inclusive extroversion. But the truth - and we have said it in committee too - is that the bio-populist farmers have to expect such agreements? Nothing. Moreover, they have experience of farmers in our country from the twilights of the Greek bourgeoisie and international agreements and commitments within the European Union, after paying the marble of the consequences of these agreements. Remember the Russian embargo, respectively, the launching of the electricity price, expensive oil, increases in animal feed, fertilisers, agricultural means and supplies imposed by monopolies, but also by the state itself with high VAT. Similarly, low product prices lead the farmer gradually not only to having a satisfactory income, but to not be able to cover his expenses, while at the same time, at the same time, with the implementation of European Union policy by all governments and with the instrument of the Common Agricultural Policy, bio-opportunities farmers, who are struggling for survival, are gradually driven to an end. The same applies to the popular layers and will apply to Armenia. The two peoples, therefore, have nothing to benefit from such agreements within this socio-economic system of capitalism, much more to develop relations of mutual benefit to the peoples of the two countries, in line with the needs of the two peoples. On the basis of the above, we are voting against this agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice President. I would like to inform the House that it has been two communications since 19 January 2022. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modification of competition law for the digital era — Amendment of Law No 3959/2011 and incorporating Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of responsibilities to the competition authorities of the Member States in order to make more effective the rules for ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market’. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Tourism: "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a. or 5A002.b., as follows: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism of Mongolia for cooperation in the field of tourism’; and "Software" specially designed or modified for the "development" or "use" of equipment specified in 5A001.a., 5A002.b. or 5A002.b.; or ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary on cooperation in the field of tourism’. Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. The agreement between Greece and Armenia that we are debating today in the field of agricultural cooperation in agriculture was signed in Girevan, the capital of Armenia, on 30 September 2019 and consists of ten articles. Cooperation shall include the themes of systems for the provision of agricultural advisers, agricultural research, quality systems, certification and control of agricultural products and foodstuffs, biotechnology, training and education services, evaluation of agriculture and offshore improvements, know-how and agricultural infrastructure. Armenia has three million people, but only 18% of its area is used for agricultural crops due to the many scattered mountain tumors and adverse climatic conditions. Recall that the historic Ararat term that was part of Armenia is the highest mountain in the wider region. Today the term Ararat is a Turkish territory. It is visible from the Armenian capital of Yerevan and is considered by the Armenian symbol of their homeland and is depicted by the present national symbol of Armenia. 18% of the working population is employed in the rural economy, which is constantly decreasing as a result of the shift in agriculture. A special problem is the difficulty of financing small rural enterprises. Here too, Mr President, we see a parallel path with Greece. In Greece, too, the agricultural sector is constantly falling, but we also have the problem of funding, because, as we now say, there is no public rural bank that supports farmers, which we are criticising. Let us remember that the two countries have a long history of background. Greece, like other countries - Cyprus, Belgium, France, the USA, Canada, Germany, Italy, Russia, Poland, Switzerland, Sweden, the Vatican, Austria, Brazil and others - have recognised Armenian genocide by the Ottomans in 1915 and Armenia has also recognised the Genocide of the Greeks of the Pontus. Let us stress that in 2020, under the aegis of France, an undeclared coalition of states was created which includes, in addition to France, Greece, Cyprus, Armenia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. I would stress that while we are in favour of international cooperation aimed at developing relations with all countries and improving people's lives, such as the current agreement between Greece and Armenia in the field of agriculture, we, as a PART25, consider that such agreements should not marginalise and, perhaps, create tensions with other neighbours in the region, such as Turkey, having historically difficult relations with that country. Yanis Varoufakis visited Constantinople in December 2019, the Patriarchate and gave talks at the English-speaking University of Bosporus in Istanbul at the beginning of the crisis with Turkey. Let us stress that Armenia has an important geostrategic point for the Caucasus energy deposits. We, Mr President, shall vote 'at present' in this convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u6	Is there any of the parliamentary representatives of the parties who want to speak? Oh, no. So the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to begin my speech with a very important national issue. Today is a historic day for our country and our Armed Forces. He receives today the Prime Minister, representing all the Greeks and Greeks, the first six fighters, from our agreement with the friend country of France, fighters who, along with the rest that will come within the next few weeks, upgrade our older fighter planes, uncompromising boldness and good training for the pilots of our Air Force, ensure pride and supremacy in the south-east Mediterranean. Our country has always committed itself to dialogue and with the aim of peace with its neighbours, even with the aggressive and seized Turkey, we guarantee our defence armour and the absolute protection of our national interests, that is to say, every inch of Greek land and sea. Greece is now universally superior: diplomatic, geostrategic, political and economic. In this context, we are also discussing an important agreement within the framework of our multi-level, multi-level foreign policy. With Armenia, ladies and gentlemen, we are linked by long-standing ties, which were particularly forged during the Byzantine and Ottoman Empire. Greece was a refuge for Armenians persecuted in 1920 after the Turkish war and the Asia Minor Destruction. Our country, in fact, is among those who have officially recognized the Armenian genocide by the Ottomans, which took place in 1915, but we have also criminalised Armenian Genocide's refusal. Today we host a numerous community of Armenians, which is estimated at about thirty-three to forty thousand people who live mainly in Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki and the cities of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. Our time-consuming relationship is reflected in our close cooperation at international level, including the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation. In its capacity as one of the oldest members of the European Union, Greece supports further strengthening relations between the European Union and Armenia. This agreement concerns cooperation between two countries in the agricultural sector and aims to strengthen bilateral trade relations which, despite close ties, are unfortunately moving at very low levels. In particular, the trade balance of agricultural products and foodstuffs is absolutely positive - a height of EUR 2 million - but it can and must be further strengthened. The agreement we are currently ratifying was signed in 2014 in Erevan, Armenia, between our Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia and will enter into force after national formalities have been completed. It is a new agreement, which will replace the previous one signed in 1997 and ratified by Law 3265/2004. The two agreements are essentially a follow-up to the agreement on economic, industrial and technological cooperation signed on 20 January 1992. As our Government, as I have said before in this House, has given priority to promoting rural diplomacy issues, as soon as possible - because of the pandemic - we have speeded up the procedures for ratifying this agreement, which, while signed in 2014, nonetheless the previous SYRIZA and ANEL have pushed forward with its ratification. An important regulation, among other things, is the provision for the establishment of a joint committee of Greece and Armenia on cooperation in agriculture. It will consist of representatives of the two ministries and, where appropriate, representatives of the cooperative and private sectors - because, obviously, we have a different conception from the Communist Party - in order to promote effectively issues of mutual interest. In relation to the first agreement - and in response to my colleague's speech in committee - which was ratified in 2004, there is also provision for cooperation between the two Ministries in areas such as plant and animal production, food marketing, quality systems, certification and control of agricultural products and foodstuffs, agricultural advisory systems, agricultural infrastructure know-how and the protection of geographical indications. With regard to the report by my dear colleague, Mr Villardos, on the committee which I could not be, because I was in Brussels, the Council of Ministers, on the lack of a genetic material bank, I just wanted to inform him, but also the Delegation, that the Genetic Material Conservation Bank has already been in place since 1981 at the Institute of Genetic Improvement and the Plant Genetic Resources of "ELGO - DIMITRA". In recent years we also have very good cooperation with the director there, Mrs Malupa. We inaugurated a new piece in Thessaloniki. We have, in fact, been delayed in a number of areas, but we are speeding up its working procedures and through it, there is a possibility of an exchange of genetic material for scientific use, which is also provided for in the agreement to be ratified. With these thoughts, therefore, and with the pleasure that most parties - in addition to two - support and vote for this ratification, I hope that, from now on, our relations with Armenia will grow even more and that the trade in agri-food products will increase as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle of uniformity, Articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is hereby concluded: "Definition of the Agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture". We move on to vote on the principle, the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the vote will be taken separately. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u9	If all Members have voted, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u10	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: [[CHANGING PAGE]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u11	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Application of the Agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the next two draft resolutions on the agenda: 1. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle of Articles and all the bills of the Ministry of Tourism: 'Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism of Mongolia for cooperation in the tourism sector' and: 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the bills of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary for cooperation in the tourism sector". The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives of the parties for five minutes, provided, of course, that the Presidents of the groups concerned will not speak. The vote on both conventions will take place at the end of the debate separately and in the order of business. However, the correspondents will be able to be placed at the same time for both draft laws, and of course there will be tolerance beyond five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u13	The House has agreed. Regarding the first draft law on ratification with Mongolia, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution, the Mera25 and voted during the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Alexandros Aylonite will therefore be speaking by SYRIZA. Mr Aylonite, as we have said, you can be placed on both draft laws that you have made reservation and there will be a tolerance of time of course. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Today's meeting, ladies and gentlemen, is devoted to the ratification of the agreements between Greece and Mongolia and between Greece and Hungary, in the context of agreed cooperation in the field of tourism. Of course, as I explained in my recommendation yesterday to the Committee on Production and Trade, we could not be negative on such national cooperation that creates better conditions for the rise of visitability in our country. I said yesterday, I repeat today, Madam Secretary, that the health pandemic literally cut off the revenues of people in the industry, created large deficits and holes in huge financial commitments from which, in general, no one escaped it. Of course, it was not only the professionals of tourism and those who - not least - suffered the losses of the vast majority, that is, the small and medium-sized accommodations and family businesses. They experienced and experienced her in the most savage way and the workers throughout the industry, as well as that of the focus. I am therefore calling for the way in which the workers have experienced it to be literally 'wrong', because the Greek state has failed both to limit the bad health and to strengthen and keep the business of tourism and focus. What I'm telling you is not too much, you hear it every day, how much I am in a tourist area like Corfu. This has resulted, Madam Secretary, in full-time workers and seasonal workers trying to live their families without income and with little, minimal aid, namely EUR 534 and the unemployment benefit. With this situation, price increases in all kinds, etc., to see which of us could live. But they live hundreds of thousands of people. I am saying all this as the debate on the sanctions of the Ministry of Tourism which we are discussing today, in addition to those which are positive in the general context, is also an opportunity to discuss. That is why yesterday and today I am devoting my speech to issues relating to tourism. Today is not Mr. Kikilis here, but it's okay. Mrs Zacharakis will respond, as she promised yesterday, to the issues we have raised and have to do with the schools, with the educational process within the tourism sector. I referred to the Tours School and IKK Tourism, and I would ask you, in particular, not to repeat myself, to tell us what you are thinking about, because they lead to a complete disdain and to a suspension of their work. I also mentioned to you here an answer for what is happening with the three hundred and fifty employees at the HILTON Hotel. I think they have a gathering tomorrow too. Not to mention them again. I think you will keep your promise to see what you are doing as a Ministry in relation to the intensity and acidity that exists and the risk of losing three hundred fifty jobs in this chain of hotels, the 'HILTON' chain. I would also like to fill out my position yesterday. You are well aware that the spread of the "Omicon" mutation in the country and the following measures taken to curb it have hit the hotel companies all over Greece. During the holiday season, all businesses expected a great tourist movement, which, of course, - and unfortunately, I will note - was ultimately reduced. The completeness did not move more than 50%. This you understand is a particularly unpleasant fact, and you are well aware that by the next holiday season, the Easter, the move will be down. I would like you to reply to that - and I would ask you, Madam Secretary-General - and I would also like you to reply to the issues relating to hotel payment from the Tourism for All and Social Tourism programmes. Businessmen in the sector are in a particularly unfavourable position. I also have to stress that it is important to increase - and it affects the maximum of all of what I say and the workers in business - energy costs, as well as the increase in the path of basic goods and products in general, together with a substantial and effective counter-proposal for economic measures to support the market and households. What are you going to do with all of them? Your bell's ringing. Who will, to say, cooperate with the tourist agencies from Mongolia and Hungary, which we are today ratifying with their countries for more systematic tourism cooperation? The citizens experience insecurity and unfortunately, Madam Secretary, we are not given the opportunity to talk about the issues that concern workers who have not filled the fifty marks, the two hundred thousand families. I am saying these by breasts because unfortunately I do not have the time to mention specifically the problems they face. Also, as far as tour guides are concerned, it would be very good, giving opportunity today, to tell us exactly what your Ministry is planning to do and please answer the questions, answer us in the documents that we have served you, we have sent you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But I would like to stress - and I ask you, Mr President - this in relation to the EOT. We have said so in the recent bill, which was passed by Parliament, on the introduction of DMOs. I would like to talk a little bit about our national DMO, namely the EOT. Because we are talking about the two agreements, with Mongolia and Hungary, what role will the EOT play? His role is downgraded. Is he gonna play the guy we've talked about so many times? The EOT needs more modernisation in order to have a more protagonist role. The organisation of tourism only by the EOT can be carried out at the level of deepening cooperation with the other states. On the agreements, and I am closing down, I mentioned yesterday that cooperation with both Mongolia and Hungary can make a significant contribution to our national tourism product by creating better conditions for the world of the industry. The prospects of alternative tourism and the potential that promotes forms of tourism, such as religious, cultural or gastronomic tourism, can practically contribute to opening up more and larger markets. We need transnational agreements, but we also need a strong EOT - I repeat - to implement them, through coordinated promotion and promotion programmes. We are voting in favour of the agreements, despite the fact that we did not hear the Minister how this kind of cooperation is seen to go ahead. We are therefore voting in favour of the agreements that we are debating today, considering that any such agreement has something to offer as a whole, but also on the condition that it is technically possible to use them and their derivatives. I'm waiting for your speech, Madam Secretary. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alonite. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. Dimitris Biagis.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic, the current health conditions and the constant developments demand rapid and rapid action by all of us, particularly in the tourism sector, in our country's so-called 'weightly industry'. Tourism does not have the fullness and capacity we would all like to have. Poor thing. It does not substantially meet the real needs that the customer, the tourist, demands today. Society is bent, the economy is on its knees. It is essential, even now, that we change the overall model of our policy. We must finally get rid of this built narrative policy and move on to the essence of things. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in today's plenary we are discussing cooperation in the field of tourism between the Greek Government and the countries of Mongolia and Hungary. This is a formal parliamentary process of ratification already agreed cooperation. Good - nobody can question this - tourist agreements and partnerships. But I appreciate, Madam Secretary, that all this will soon prove tabula rasa if we do not reverse the compass's course and do not change our strategy and rhetoric immediately. Today, in the middle of the pandemic, with the ever-increasing recession, with the daily inflated inflation that haunt our lives for good and determine the survival of all of us, we expect from you, Madam Secretary, the creation of another policy and not just the ratification of international conventions. Tourism and especially the tourist product are at risk. We must hurry, move immediately on to sustainable and practical solutions to prevent the current fatal mutation that threatens the survival of tourism. The viability of Greek tourism, unfortunately, Madam Secretary, is not achieved and is not guaranteed either by the balance of revenue and expenditure or by income gains per traveller. If we really want to achieve a sustainable tourism product, I think we need to get away from the negative effects that mass tourism has brought us so many years. In particular, we need to find ways to slip out of the models we have been using to date, which were based on increased demand for high season and were poorly equipped in off seasons, with low invoicing. The phenomenon of high seasoning, which the numbers of demand are increasing excessively and completely disproportionate to the infrastructure we have - not only in beds, but also in general in infrastructure, road network, waste and so on - all this is a burden on the environment, but also they have irreparably reduced the quality of our tourism. Support for tourism must be immediate, vertical and that means tourism at a better pace, at a more qualitative rate, setting a basis for quality. All the time, every day, customers' demands change. In fact, it is imperative for our new tourist plan to provide for, to provide and include ever-changing health needs and to be able to meet the demands of tourists-clients, who clearly - media and pandemic - will be increasingly demanding. So we need constant communication and cooperation - I would say - between the Ministries of Tourism and Health, in order to address any health risks and to form a healthcare area as far as possible in order to make Greek tourism sustainable, reliable, attractive and effective. As a consequence, the question is the quality holidays, with particular emphasis on health and safety, and secondly on the well-being and relaxation of the body, the spirit, as well as the "placing" of local societies and products and the cultural account of each region. In this way we will offer authenticity, quality and stability to the new product, which will now be chosen by fewer customers, but which will bring more economic benefits and respect the environment and our own homeland. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in Corfu, on the island where I come from, you cannot really think about it and assess, if you do not live, the extent of the destruction of the last few years that have been suffered by both businesses and workers and during the pandemic. Any support measures you announced have not yielded what we all expected. Seasonal enterprises close, small tourist enterprises laud themselves, with the ghost of recession and inflation perpetuating above them. I also take the opportunity to tell you once again that support measures for the firms affected must in no way be horizontal in nature. They must take into account the essential specificities of each region, since the impact of the tourist crisis we are facing does not affect the country's periphery seriously. The measures are not and should not be the same for everyone, since the seasonality of the majority of enterprises in the purely tourist regions, even those which the Ministry of Finance itself considers unaffected, such as small regional food shops and, more generally, the retail trade, is a key factor, as is the nature of the visitors themselves. The great loser, the truly unjustified of this story, and especially of the pandemic, is not one of the workers in tourism, workers who have forgotten them for two years now, Minister, since we have not been bent over their problems, since we have not tried to legislate, as we should have done, so that we can give them a sense of security during the pandemic crisis and leave them without the special help it would need. The intention of seasonality - remember him a little! - which concerns the drivers of tourist buses as well as the workers in tourist offices, etc. He became a convict for thousands of them. They didn't get a single euro! Where was the Ministry of Tourism then? But even today, when we make these agreements, with whom will we propose this implementation of these agreements when we have not protected them? You closed your eyes and ears as government, and you do the same for small and medium-sized family businesses, small accommodations, small units, which strive to link the tourist product to the primary sector, the environment, the cultural heritage of this rich place, which is certainly not just the sun and the sea. The cherry in all of this is that in an ever-changing era where data is changing, stereotypes are abolished and specialization plays a key role, you come and give the final blow, I repeat, the final blow, to the tourist schools in the region. Without personnel, no practical practice, no hope for children who decide to engage intensively in tourism and specialization in their field, you come and help, bring deception. You do not give them the right to serve tourism with other bases and other advantages. For example, take a look at the Tour School, which you inaugurated with bazaars and branches a few months ago in Corfu, or IKK Tourism, which lauds without administrative staff, without workshops and without being able to pay its basic needs. Is that the tourism that we want and pursue? Untrained workers, workers with no support and no prospects? Small businesses, waiting in July and August to justify their existence? What are we going to do first, and what are we going to answer also to the tour guides? Have we ever been seriously involved and have we asked these people to tell us with real evidence how much of them have been doing over the past two years of the crisis? These are the main questions, these are the basic questions. For us, Madam Secretary, the Ministry of Tourism had to set the cubit very high, as new roads had to be opened, beyond and above the stereotypes of mass tourism that have been raised for decades, which we need to recognise. But now we have to invest in quality characteristics that we have forgotten, mark the opening-up of the market with new standards and rules, and legislate by promoting new ways of interconnecting the tourist product with the environment, culture, gastronomy, tradition and culture of each region. But in the primary sector these are our weapons, that's what we need to take the lead. In closing, the pandemic has entered for good in our lives and has come as accelerator of all changes and developments. It is therefore necessary, in view of the health, social and economic conditions, to proceed immediately, now, with the adoption of a new tourist model, which will take into account the specificities of tourist areas throughout the territory, that, Madam Secretary, will provide real solutions for businesses and workers and will give a realistic breath of relief to the whole of our economy and our society. With medium-sized solutions and virtual elements that do not correspond to reality, we will be guided with mathematical accuracy. We must immediately restart the machines and tackle the challenges of the time, if we want to be sustainable, both tourism itself and the tripartite itself, as I have mentioned in the committees, the threefold that concerns our economy, development and society. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u17	Thank you too, Mr. Biagi. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, now has the floor. Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot start with a comment on the previous Minister for Rural Development's reference to the fact that today is a special day, because our country is shielded by the provision of the Rafahs. The Government of New Democracy is fascinating because, in its term of office, our country is the first to spend NATO's needs, even beyond the United States of America. This is money that is deprived of the people. We do not want to blame SYRIZA for protesting through the Foreign Department for the party site, which wanted it to be government, for they too, along with KINAL and the Greek Solution, voted to take 3 billion euros from the people to testify to the French war industries and serve NATO plans. However, state funds are licensed for hospitals, for intensive treatment units, while people die outside them, for schools and for infrastructures for protecting people's lives. Indeed, this is a special day, but not for the workers and the people! And I come to the transnational agreements. Is this supposed to happen? Yes or no? We say it must be done. What, though, is being pursued through them? Who are those who set the terms of the agreements? Who are those who benefit and who are hurt? All the agreements signed by the governments of capital, by representing it, of course, like those which we are discussing today by the New Democracy Government with Hungary and Mongolia on tourism, are part of the geostrategic designs of the transnational organisations of the European Union, NATO and their allies in the United States, in order to implement the overall plans and competition with Russia for the control of energy and other wealthy sources and for the domination of monopolistic groups of their countries in the wider region. Business groups active in tourism in relevant countries and with various cooperative schemes will make use of the friendly investment environment, the legislative framework, all kinds of privileges and incentives and the cheap labour force for the optimal return of their investment funds for greater profitability. Yesterday the debate on the new investment law and on incentives and funding for tourism began. You're doing good good news! We also asked the committee yesterday, but we are mentioning it today: what do the workers of Greece, Hungary and Mongolia have to gain with the partnerships of business groups for investment in similar countries, beyond their deep exploitation? There is rich experience among our workers from foreign investors in tourism. Workers work when they have mosaic working relationships, daily working time is elastic, wages are intensified by multi-employee labour, while over time the working conditions and pay conditions of workers are deteriorating and, at the same time, objectively increase the profits of large groups, since these are coming out of the exploitation of workers. Barbarity reaches the point where workers sleep in unacceptable areas, chamois and containers. At the moment, redundancies are increasing. "HILTON" announced the closure for the upgrade, because it knows that the development law, whose discussion began, will bring funding. So what's he doing? He fired three hundred right-handed workers to get elastic workers. In Rio's casino they fired the trade unionist, the president of the branch club of Patras and the cashier of the Patras Labour Center, because he's coming in for the workers to be paid, that is, the self-evident thing, to pay their jobs. So this is the situation that exists today. Workers experience this barbaric face of the exploitation system, hard exploitation. This is also the problem that needs to be solved, overthrowing this form of organization of the economy. In capitalism, in the system of market freedom, individual ownership in the means of production, in the infrastructures of recreation and holidays, in addition to the great exploitation, as we have said, for the majority of the workers, there are also workers' folk families, who are unable to meet basic needs. Tourism for them looks like a summer night dream. It is greedy and deprives it of the vast majority. So since we are discussing the agreements with countries that have been rectified by capitalism thirty years ago, despite the mistakes and weaknesses of adequate socialism, the people in these countries have now experienced great achievements in every aspect of their lives: work for all, health for all, education, sport, culture, free time, and so on, as well as the right of all to holidays. As much as he tries this barbaric exploitation system with their anti-communism hiding all these conquests, he won't make it. It's a oneway, working class, giving answers, getting the case of this development road in her hands. So the result of these achievements and the impact they had on the working class of capitalist countries was the development of class struggle and the granting of rights and capitalism. The eighth hour that the New Democracy Government has now put into legislation in this context, within the European Union, has done so a ten-hour and a thirteen-hour time. Five days was a conquest, and the world could go two days to escape. Now it's been made six days and seven days. The constant employment, which has given people time, is now tireless with contracts, which, as I said yesterday, are in tourism. The annual salary leave has been abolished, gentlemen, as has the allowances. Because they are made redundant every year last year, now in the sixty-sixty-seven thousand forty-one redundancies, the number of workers in the private sector. And of course, there are so many other hires. That's a recycling of unemployment. So all this has the effect of abolishing whatever rights they have left in labour legislation. Social tourism, excursion programs, and that are basically over. So all this today is getting it back. The workers, the people in all the countries which accept the war of this chapter, have a way of getting rid of it, so that they can make use of the labour power and social design of all the productive potential, move towards mutual and advantageous transnational agreements in all areas, of course, and satisfy their modern expanded needs, which does not exist in these agreements, but is the criterion of profit, the strong, the ironic law of capitalism. The JRC therefore rejects these agreements and supports the workers' struggles and HILTON, and Patras, and all over Greece, so that they can safeguard their rights and claim new conquests.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr Vassilis Viliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are going to start by the fact that if the New Democracy logo was actually placed on the Rafael, as we have read, without knowing whether it is true, the government should be ashamed, since they will be paid by the Greek citizens, who have already charged 43 billion debts in just two years, not by the party. However, the government's failures are widened, with the initial yield of the ten-year bond at 1,89%, which is extremely problematic, when we already owe more than EUR 386 billion. Failures in health, in the economy, in our energy dependency, everywhere. In the tourist contract now with Mongolia, we told the committee that this is a closed country with three million and three hundred thousand people, with 14.3 billion GDP and a per capita of USD 4,185 per capita, a very poor country, while it is considered that it is more than 30% of its economy. We also said that it had in 2019 just thirty-seven thousand tourists, mainly from China, Russia and South Korea, with a few Europeans and Americans. Its tourist income in 2019 was $605 million or 4.5% of its GDP, with average expenditure per tourist of $905, while the contract with it is general and looks like Hungary. Otherwise, as we have said, it is only Article 5, which refers to the promotion of investment in the two countries. It also differs from 7, which concerns respect for the European Union's rules, where Mongolia seems to have no commitments. In conclusion, this is a meaningless contract, without any visible benefit, although there is no reason to vote against and not to vote in favour. In relation to Hungary, we said it was a country of comparable size and economy with Greece, with nine million seven hundred and fifty thousand population, with a GDP of $180.9 billion in 2021, according to IMF forecasts and a per capita GDP of 18,527 dollars. Of course in 2008, when our own GDP was at $356 billion -189 billion today - Hungary was only $158 billion, as we will testify in the Minutes, having plunged into $130 billion with the crisis. In particular, it experienced a major crisis in 2008, with its socialist government then leading it to the IMF, implementing its disastrous policy. However, its citizens, unlike the Greeks, did not give their heads to the memorials and reacted in 2010, electing a patriotic, liberal government, which stopped discussions with the IMF and experienced a second crisis, but managed to repay it three years later, to drive it out of its capital and actually achieve an economic miracle, which we unfortunately did not achieve. It is therefore a good example of the betrayal of the memorials, especially those who still claim that Greece had no other solution, that it had no choice, despite the incredible disaster we have already suffered and we will suffer for too many decades yet. We continued in committee, noting that the Hungarian OTP bank has been interested in covering the site in the Balkans, which the Greek banks have unfortunately abandoned as a result of its memorial and extortionist troika policies, taking over Alpha Bank's subsidiary in Albania and interested in the subsidiaries of the National Bank in Romania and Serbia. We pointed out that Hungary is approaching Turkey, while Hungary's Prime Minister has declared that his people are descendants of Attila, so that this is a Turkish-born population, while the Turkish-family council has opened up an annex to Budapest. We continued by saying that medical and medical tourism is very important for Hungary, since in 2017 it attracted two and a half million tourists, while it is famous for its spas, considering that it has a thousand five hundred medical sources, much more than us. We said that health tourism needs to be developed in Greece, where we have about seven hundred fifty sources, of which less than two hundred visitors and some seventy exploitable, reminding us that according to studies we could attract three hundred thousand additional visitors. Furthermore, medical tourism is also highly developed in Hungary, which ranks in the 20th place worldwide, with Greece in the thirty-fourth quarter recently. And he is a very popular destination of British and German for cheap dentistry - we pointed it out - with six thousand dentists in 2017. This is a really great opportunity for Greece, if it exploits it, since we have thirteen thousand four hundred sixty-four dentists with figures in 2019 of ELSTAT, as we will deposit in the Minutes, as well as the highest number of dentists in the European Union, with a hundred and six hundred thousand inhabitants, as well as we will deposit in the Minutes. It's a really big opportunity. This also applies to medical tourism, which has great prospects in Greece, and could increase employment in the area, so that it ensures the return of about eighteen thousand doctors who left our country and those due to the Memorandums. Another disaster for the country. And suggested medical services for similar tourism in Greece are aesthetics, artificial fertilization, dentistry, ophthalmia and orthopaedics, noting that in Greece we have sixty - sixty - eight doctors, with figures again in 2019, a very large number more fortunately! And according to a study of 'internationalism', 1.5 billion euros can be added and twenty thousand jobs from medical tourism, while 2 billion and twenty-six thousand jobs from health care, as well as 13.6 billion from welfare tourism, with seventy-one thousand jobs. These are the jobs that the government should do, not just the theories. These are, therefore, the real opportunities for our country, as well as quality tourism, with the rise of per capita expenditure, which is just EUR 535, lower than Turkey, in conjunction with the promotion of Greek products from our hotels. It is a shame to meet most of their needs, almost 80% more generally in their supplies, with imports, thus increasing our trade deficit. As far as the contract is concerned, it is also general. Article 1 refers to the purpose and Article 2 focuses on increasing tourist traffic between the two countries, as well as on the cooperation of travel agencies. Article 3 specialises in the areas of cooperation, which are marketing and promotion, through participation in exhibitions, education, statistics and legislation, while Article 4 stresses cooperation in specific forms of tourism, medical, thermal, well-being and cultural. Articles 5 and 6 concern the promotion of international cooperation and Article 7 in the setting up of a Joint Committee to monitor the implementation of the Convention, and nothing is envisaged on how to resolve disputes. The Convention shall be amended by mutual agreement in Article 8. It shall enter into force after ratification at national level in Article 9, with a five-year duration and a silent renewal, and may be terminated immediately. Finally, the cost of visits is covered by the States, while according to the General Accounting Office of the State, it will take 3,360 euros per year for travel to committees and so much for attendance at conferences, and there may be additional costs for training workshops and for participation in exhibitions that are not quantified, but which will be covered by the EOT. In any case, as in the Mongolia convention, it cannot be 'against', and it does not seem particularly beneficial in its vote. We should only add that from a hundred thousand Hungarians who visited Greece in 2014, they increased to three hundred twenty-seven thousand in 2019, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, so there has been a great increase, which is positive for Greece. We shall vote on both conventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Mr. Logiadis, who will speak via Webex, has the floor to place himself on both conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, I will be placed on both conventions at the same time, but first, Mr President, you will allow me to speak briefly in the previous draft law, in the position of the Minister for Rural Development. We consider it totally unstable, incomprehensible, incorrect. Today when we discuss the draft law on cooperation in the agricultural sector between Greece and Armenia, the Minister should come and advertise the war planes purchased by Greece as a historic day. We are not doing rural diplomacy or that is not the case, Mr President. Previously, in our speech, we indicated that there is now an undeclared coalition between France and Greece - Armenia - Egypt - Cyprus - Saudi Arabia, in fact, to separate the neighbouring country, Turkey. We are thus creating further tensions with the Rafah market, as we always say, as a PART25, but also with this diplomacy. We therefore consider the Minister's position to be completely wrong. It is in the wrong direction, and more so that Armenia is at a geopolitical point where the energy pipelines are going through. Minister, we are discussing today the ratification of the two memorandums of cooperation in the field of tourism, firstly, the memorandum of understanding between the Greek Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Environment and Tourism of Mongolia, and secondly, the memorandum of understanding between the Greek Ministry of Tourism and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary. I would first like to stress that we support cooperation in the field of tourism. Visitors from both countries welcome them and we need them. But here I have a contradiction, Minister. The population of both of these countries has been vaccinated because of a pandemic with Russian and Chinese vaccines. We wanted visitors vaccinated with Russian and Chinese vaccines, like the other countries last summer and generally, but at the same time, as Greece, we do not import, on the European Union's request, vaccines from China or Russia. This demonstrates the involvement of the European Union and vaccine biscuits, but it also accentuates the credibility of the state, resulting in citizens not being trusted in the vaccination programme and, furthermore, in the division of society, with disastrous, multiple results, as we constantly show, as a PART25. Yes, well, to vaccinated tourists with Chinese and Russian vaccines, but not to the market of them. You spoke yesterday, Minister, about virus mutations. At this point I would like to emphasise the position of Mera25, that from the beginning of the pandemic, the European Union should buy vaccines and donate them to poor countries, to large populations, such as Africa, just to reduce this risk of the mutation you mentioned, but also for geopolitical reasons. Russia and China donate and inoculate such huge population groups as Africa. The European Union's complicity and non-existence in this matter too. With regard to ratification of the memorandum of cooperation with Mongolia, it consists of ten general and simplified articles. The population of Mongolia is three million, thousands of inhabitants. It's one of the most sparsely populated countries in the world. Tourism to Mongolia is mainly about natural tourism and adventure tourism. It's one of the last remaining nomadic societies, where half the population lives nomadicly and the other half lives in the capital Ulan Bator. The Memorandum with Hungary also consists of ten general and simplified articles. Hungary has ten million inhabitants and its capital, Budapest, is a tourist attraction. Large margins for development are medical, medical, dental and alternative tourism. The low-cost airline ‘WIZZ’ is of Hungarian interest and promotes new destinations to Greece from the Gulf States. However, even though we are trying to develop tourism with each country, such as now with Mongolia and Hungary, tourism without executives trained and well-paid is not there. Not without infrastructure means tourism quality and claims. Here too, we must stress that higher education schools anywhere are not working. With regard to the School of Tourist Professionals here, in Crete, in Heraklion - in Kokkini Hani - the building has been destroyed and there are no lessons to be learned. ASTEC St. Nicholas, instead of developing and delivering high-ranking executives, is constantly degraded and deceived. There are huge deficiencies in tourism. So pupils are being driven to private schools. It is precisely that policy that we condemn you as a MERA25. You degrade and devaluate public education, and that is how you turn students into private education. On the other hand, without resources, without public investment, with non-existent infrastructure, tourism is not meant. It can't be done. Let me say here that the spear's peak is Crete and Heraklion airport. It's indescribable. The streets are bombed landscape. You've come, Minister. You've seen them. Biological cleansing doesn't exist. Water is not enough. The electricity beyond being expensive is continuously cut in the summer. Hotels have completely substituted the state. They have their own biological cleanings, their own water treatment plants and their own generators. I do not have enough time to raise issues and problems of tourism. I will conclude by saying that overtaxation - on the basis of the memoranda you have signed by all three governments -, directly and indirectly, with one of the highest in Europe, leads to tax evasion and unfair competition. It destroys the economy, destroys healthy businesses, healthy workers, and creates an economy and a black job. Apart from overtaxation that reduces the workers' available income, when they also have to pay for health issues, for their teeth, for their eyes, for their children, and send their children to private care centres, what is left to live? The lack of public control mechanisms, for example the Labour Inspectorate, by deporting and subscribing the public sector, also creates too many problems further than helps tourism. So we want tourism? Public infrastructure, highly qualified staff, decent available income are some basic conditions for these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Only two parliamentary representatives have asked to speak. Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin with the position of the Minister for Rural Development in relation to the Rafahs that are coming to Tanagra today. I consider a defence agreement really to be a disgrace to turn into a party figurine. This is unacceptable in all respects, when we are indeed a country whose people are now experiencing a precision that makes their lives not just difficult, but unbearable, and when we have a pandemic with high levels of fatalities, permeated, etc. We are the first of all of all European Union countries per million people. We are in favour of the country's defensive armour. We call 'yes' to the country's defensive shield. We say 'no', but we say 'no' in the race of super armaments. That is our position, and that is why we do not agree with the way this agreement is being made today. And with the video released last night New Democracy is turning a national policy into a party policy. In relation to the memorandum of cooperation for tourism, with the two countries Mongolia and Hungary, these agreements on tourism are obviously positive, such as agreements with all the countries of the world, with regard to tourism development and tourism cooperation. Of course, our relations with these two countries, particularly Mongolia, are too weak to date, a country in North-East Asia. I really think he's on the ground at the start of such a deal. But with Hungary too. Since we have an EOT office in Austria and not in Budapest, for example, it shows that our relations are still at a very weak level. Of course we have a growing trend in the flow of Hungarian tourists. In 2014 we had a hundred and nine thousand. In 2019, we have three hundred twenty-seven thousand Hungarian tourists. In addition, EOT has so far not participated in tourism fairs in Hungary. There is also another matter. Greece does not yet have a reliable statistical system in relation to tourism. Since the 2000s, we have been waiting for satellite accounts. So I would say that our relations with the two countries - both Mongolia and Hungary - with regard to tourism are impossible. I hope that, with Hungary at least, they will not accelerate because of ideological affinity. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Mitsotakis Government with the Orban Government has begun to look like too many things, unfortunately, adopting a extreme right-wing logic, mentality and behaviour. We also see that with the media issue. I hope that in a few days' time the meeting of the Committee of Inquiry on the Pecha List will be discussed, regardless of whether the Government, the New Democracy, has seen it well, there is no political responsibility, etc. But we need to know that we are the 20th first country, together with Poland and Hungary, in relation to citizens' confidence in the media. In addition, democracy is hit when journalists are hit. What is happening in the case of Yianna Papadakou and Kostas Vaxevani, which is currently called on the Areos Ice to apologise, is unprecedented. They are things that are curtailing journalism and democracy and, indeed, we do not know where they will lead. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a little tolerance. We don't have many speakers. These people are doing an investigation into a scandal and not a construction. Finally, you recognize that the 'NOVARTIS' case is a scandal, not only for doctors but also for political persons. And where's the ending at last? I understand that they will be filed if there is no evidence, but why they are not yet filed for the two Ministers and for the third of which the immunity has been lifted and with his own assent within Parliament Well, let us finish these cases and, after they are done, tell us that there was no allegedly no 'NOVARTIS' scandal. There are serious problems in tourism. The image is not as nice as it is seen by the Minister, Mr. Kikilia. ELSTAT's statistics of comparison of nine months January - September 2021 compared to the corresponding nine month of 2019 tells 51.2% reduction in arrivals, 51.3% reduction in nights, 44.1% reduction in liabilities compared with 53.9%. In addition, the same is true of the passenger traffic of the international airport. It is reduced compared to 2019. On the subject of the full details of your holiday season, the hoteliers and tourist operators have said so. They degrade a beautiful image that the government wants to present. Of course, tourism went well in 2021, especially in the islands and in the tourist regions. We won't say it didn't go well. But it could not, when about the end of October, cover the whole year 2021. And, of course, we need to know that globally the tourist trend is to increase the flow of tourists from one country to another and it has nothing to do with who is a government. Well, to be precise, I mean. Unless a government really does important things. Here too, because we say in the cooperation of the two tourist monuments and the alternative forms of tourism, I would like to say the following: we are talking about ecotourism. Of course it is a very important alternative to tourism. But tourism on our islands and our coastlines, when authoritatively licensed for strategic five-star investment, which destroy the environment, destroying the capacity that destroys sustainable development, destroys the historical and cultural heritage of our islands? What kind of ecotourism are we talking about, which destination we are talking about that respects human beings and the environment, within the dimensions that we really want to see if there is a tourism perspective and not a tourism that will serve only some large multinational companies? Not to say, of course, on workers' issues, where you know that tens of thousands of people did not receive unemployment benefit this year, such as seasonal workers. We now have the example of 'HILTON', where three hundred and fifty workers are directly in danger of getting on the road. As far as tourism education is concerned, you know very well what is going on with higher education schools in Rhodes and Lassithi. There is a despair on the part of students, on their professional prospects and on the possibility of living in the cities where these schools exist. What will happen from the point of view of the Ministry of Tourism? There is no answer yet to these issues. For all these reasons, we are calling and proclaiming that political change is urgently urgent, that it is urgent to stop, save everything that can be saved in that country and that a progressive government is created, which will define a strategic democratic, social state and development horizon for many and not the few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Mr Theocharis (Christmas) Theocharis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall of course refer to these agreements. I am very pleased that cooperation agreements with countries are being ratified in the field of tourism, because from tourism, from economic cooperation, relations between countries begin and deepen, and eventually our country becomes stronger strategically and overall. I am, of course, pleased that these agreements with Hungary and Mongolia aim to strengthen tourism cooperation and to promote specific forms of tourism. It represents the Ministry of Tourism, the State Secretary responsible for these specific forms of tourism, such as medical tourism, welfare, health and cultural tourism. Mongolia indeed - I remember why I spent a younger vacation there - is a vast country, a country that offers emotions. Accordingly, our country is a country of high tourism, multifaceted and can offer all travellers unique experiences. Of course, we have more general cooperation in many areas, such as the World Tourism Organisation. Our country has been presided over for two more years by the European Commission in this organization, and that shows where our country is currently valued in this area. I am, of course, delighted, even more, because these two agreements are two agreements that we signed and signed with the Mitsotakis Government, completing my own mandate, withdrawing from the drawer the SYRIZA agreements that had entered into the bells and were simply signed and have not been ratified by Parliament. We have finished this job, and now we are moving on to the job of ratifying the agreements that we signed in our term of office. Significantly, the prior agreement of the Ministry of Rural Development which we have just voted on - a very important agreement in many areas - on crop production, livestock production, fisheries, agricultural research, biotechnology and geo-environmental issues - is an agreement signed in 2014 on the Government of Samaras. In other words, at the moment, the Ministry of Rural Development has recovered agreements that have come to us a long time ago and should have been completed. Of course, too many opposition and several krone have been heard, particularly by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Armalene. The President will allow me, with the tolerance he has shown to the previous speakers, that this sitting is short, and we have some time, I think, to refer to that logic. It is not, of course, the only person who has raised tons for some reason at a meeting of such a kind of opposition. Of course, many things must be answered. As far as tourism is concerned - let me start from there, because it is the subject of the debate - our country is at the top of the world this year. And it's against the whole picture that you've been cultivating in the previous period, Mrs. Notopoulou, you yourself, Mr. Santorinios, and a series of people who are from tourist areas, and therefore you are more closely following things there. Today I was reading articles about our embassy's note in Spain, which compared how our country, with a 46% fall from 2019, has been getting the Spanish market, with 64% falling since 2019, almost double the fall. So what happens with the argument that the government doesn't matter? The Socialist Government in Spain, with other policies, other than the pandemic, with other possible problems. I'm not gonna sit here and check on everything that happened in Spain. But those policies led a superpower, the second world country in tourism, to have this huge fall and our own country to have a much smaller fall. So the image you're trying to craft, cultivate, that out there is an absolute catastrophe in the field of tourism, obviously not confirmed by reality. Of course, it is a question of saying that some have not received an allowance - but unemployment benefits have been reduced to fifty meanings, that is, minimum requirements - to focus on possible redundancies that may exist. I don't know if it's gonna happen. But at the moment I know that 'W' in the Messinia of the same chain is hiring. Evidently in one economy every hour there are redundancies, changes, personnel move from one company to another and are adapted to the needs of customers and the era. So we cannot just focus on redundancies. We need to see the recruitment. I shall end with three examples of how ambitious it is really - and I congratulate you on this - the opposition strategy of SYRIZA. She's ambitious, not because she's trying to drop the government. She's not her target. SYRIZA doesn't even oppose the government. SYRIZA opposes democracy, country and reality. These are the three objectives of SYRIZA and I will mention three examples.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u27	You're a nice man.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u28	We'll also talk about the media event. Don't worry. The Committee of Inquiry's fiasco is also over. It will look very reasonable in the eyes of the Greek people who are looking at us today. But no one can forget, nobody forgets that SYRIZA is being charged with one of the most crippled, fatter attempts to manipulate justice and I forget the media with the Florence institutes and everything else. We all remember the night raids of Mr Tsipras' close associates at the Ministry of Justice. We all remember the relevant Ministers of Government SYRIZA to celebrate, when allegedly the biggest scandal was discovered from the Greek state's payment in the case 'NOVARTIS'. They celebrated because they thought they had found a sure way to do what Mr Paulakis had suggested to them at all costs of imprisoning politicians from other parties. If, however, SYRIZA prefers to forget all this, the Greek people prefer to remember them, to abuse power, to abolish all concepts of independence of justice with the coordinated attempt to unite the institutions at the expense of constitutional order. This, even now, is Mr. Polakis' central programme, he tells us every day - every day! - at meetings. The examples are so present and timely that I do not even have to describe them. But this is the position that for me is the real place. This is Mr. Tsipras' central project. It's SYRIZA's central project. He's not Mr. Tsipras' hostage. Mr. Paulakis is Mr. Tsipras' benefactor. This may be one way to hide the inadequacy and difficulty in which SYRIZA is in the polls confirming the situation in which he is in the consciousness of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u29	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude, Mr President. SYRIZA is fighting the country. The Raphala example is characteristic. Is it possible to speak of a party figurine? Did you tell us, Mr. Symphony, that you are supporting the strengthening of the country's defence force? Have you voted for any of these agreements? Did you vote in the budget just passed on the defensive expenditure? Is this how you support the country's armour? You came here with the French agreement that we voted on for fresh fruits and you told us - what Mr Tsipras said to you, in his words - not to take weapons because the Greek people are hungry, not to make cooperation agreements with other countries, because we have advantages and obligations and then, since we have been undone and torn apart, to go to Turkey and negotiate. That's your position! Is this the country's support? You're against the country and that's what I'm telling you!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u31	She told you about the Shahel!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u32	I am now finishing with the fact that you are fighting reality. Pandemic: Raise the apocalypse and you shouldn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u33	Now, Mr President, the pandemic has not been raised today. Previously, the subject was raised, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u34	I shall close, Mr President - no, it will be two words. Mr. Armalene spoke of the hard indicators and told us that we were first in Europe. So I'm telling you, Mr. Symphony, that so far your criticism has been 'the cases will be launched because you open the schools', and what did the reality say? The schools just opened up, by 1/3 dropping cases, precisely because they were checked, precisely because the cases were found and they sat in their homes. And now your criticism changes to the hard indicators and I return the criticism back to you. All your criticism has so far been that the hard indicators, the deaths, would be finished as soon as we had the monoclonals, this is what Mr Paulakis says to us here and he reproduces the main argument of the transmissibles, "do not get vaccinated because there are drugs". We have the monoclonals, now we have the second drugs. Where is the fall of the hard indicators? All this based criticism you have been hearing here for months is this: Where is it? There is no other solution, vaccination and compliance with all distance measures! The government has a reasonable, proper policy and it will continue to do so. That is why Greece is changing right now, moving forward, fighting and winning with this government. And some in this room choose to stay in yesterday. They insist on the cries and nothing else. But the Greek people, like the whole country, will leave them behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u35	Good, thank you very much. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor. Here, Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u36	We are talking today about ratification of two international agreements. We have had an initial debate in committee yesterday and I have already committed myself to coming with more information, especially on the issues that are being raised - and are rightly raised - and have been put forward by the other representatives of the parties. Our aim - to talk a little about the two agreements - is obviously to promote cooperation and development of tourism, with a view to blossoming our national economy. And I think we all agree - at least those who are here have already shown it with our positions - that tourism is one of the greatest pillars for it. From the first moment that we took responsibility for the political leadership of this ministry - and here we are, the former Minister, Harry Theocharis, with his struggle from the beginning that took place at a difficult time and, of course, also with Vassilis Kikilias and Mr Konsolas and with me - there has been a coordinated continuous and harmonious effort, so that in this outburst of this unprecedented health crisis - this pandemic crisis that we are still experiencing and we are trying to overcome mainly with endurance, patience, but also with a coordinated programme and vaccination throughout the country - we can commit ourselves within this difficult task of emphasizing and increasing the extroversion of our country. Yes, in this very difficult context we recognise and believe deeply in the role and importance of developing good relations with foreign countries and peoples, in the fruitful exchange of information and practices, from which we can benefit. We've done it so far and we'll keep doing it. That is why - Mr Theocharis said before - it was the reason for the signing of the two agreements and the reason why the Greek Parliament is now called upon to seal the effort through their ratification. Before, however, I continue with the substance of today's debate, namely these two agreements, let me - because, as I said before, I committed myself to this - following what we have heard in committee to respond to the comments made on the course of Greek tourism and on the manipulations made by the Ministry, in particular, to restore as much as I can to the image that one would create, if he listened yesterday to the figures on Greek tourism and the objections of counter-population. So let us speak with concrete evidence that every Greek citizen can understand in his everyday life. The EUR 10,196 billion, to which travel receipts arrived in January - October, are not virtual figures at all, Mr Biagi, I think, is the Bank of Greece that set them up. So there was an increase of 142% over the previous year. We are, of course, satisfied in the context where we have been able to move, in the context - I repeat - in the environment in which we are moving and are very pleased to see the prospects for 2022, but I will come back to it. Based on the latest data from the Bank of Greece, revenues moved over 54% in 2019, reaching around 58%, proving that the target of 50% originally set was rather modest. In fact, in August and September we exceeded 75% of the revenues in 2019. In October, which is a demanding challenge, it is a challenge to be able to have this extension, which is usually heard of the lengthening of the tourist season, but we have also seen it happen at destinations like the destinations of the South Aegean, Mr. Syrmalene, that we have seen, respectively, reaching almost 100% in October, or that we have even 15 November. That is the aim we should achieve, the actual escalation, to be able to see our guests coming and enjoying the Greek summer or the extensive Greek summer or a autumn, which anyway reminds us very much in summer at the destinations, to arrive in October, November. We see that it may have become a reality, because the intention of airlines is to have flights by then, we will see it, of course, within the year. I continue with the average expenditure, because I have heard a comment about the average expenditure. Let me remind you that this year, again in the comments of the Bank of Greece, we had an increase of the average expenditure by 27% compared with 2019, at EUR 724. So this is an important - if you want - element, it is a reserve, we have stated it during the bill, when discussing the draft law, on which we must build. It won't be done automatically. This will be done, above all, by increasing the quality of the tourist product, by extending options that a person who comes to Greece will, of course, choose from the Greek traveller and improving infrastructure. So I will come back to this. According to EUROSTAT, Greece presented the best performance in the Eurozone in the third quarter of the previous year, the most tourist quarter in which the results of the tourist traffic seem to be essentially seen in the most controversial period. The Greek economy has developed and we are expecting the final elements for growth anyway. Of course, our GDP at the same time was 46.4 billion, the highest domestic performance in the last ten years. I think, therefore, that in addition to the quantitative recovery, combined with the qualitative recovery and the increase in average expenditure - I say this to check it as an element, but it is a given by the Bank of Greece - we see the overall contribution that tourism can have. Of course, the congratulations and gratitude we feel as citizens of this country are obviously addressed to the people of Greek hospitality, professionals and tourists who, without any prior testing, have managed to send the most optimistic message for our country. Clearly, we've been standing next to them since the first moment. We have joined forces to bring the best possible results and we continue to stand side by side, with emergency measures which are currently in place for the companies that have been affected by the new mutation, but also the measures that may have affected their quality and function. Of course, we will continue to support all forces, obviously always in the financial framework that exists. Because we want to speak with elements and with projects and not, if you like, with some ideal shapes that are not based on the real economy. Nevertheless, because there was a wider debate - I am sorry, Mr President, but I take the time, because it is a unique opportunity to talk about it too - about whether or not it can be credited to governments or not to be able to have an increase in tourism, I will come and say that these things have a start, a middle and a end. The Greek Government in time announced the beginning of the tourist season - it was Mr Theocharis who announced it for 15 May - and we did so. The Greek Prime Minister went and raised the issue of the digital certificate and became a European reality. We had protocols that we updated in time and were able to implement in practice without any reduction in quality and safety. All that was claimed with foreign partners, with companies, with airlines, with tour operators, is recorded in time, as had been done in the past. Mrs. Koudura had made a big effort. There's always going on in tourism. We're not canceling everything. At the same time, however, we cannot tolerate canceling and denying an overall effort that has been made in such a difficult environment and saying that no, nothing can be credited to the government. Well, the government was present. He was present in Greece, he was present European, he was present internationally. That is why we can now come and say that the Greek Minister, Vassilis Kikilis, in the recent reports in London, France, made special agreements with the airlines and we can say that they will have more positions than ever before than in 2019. ‘JET2’, which will have six hundred thousand more positions than 2019, such as ‘EASYJET’, which estimates that it will have over five hundred thousand positions more than 2019, such as ‘APOLO TRAVEL’. So there are too many companies, which are currently committed to a greater number of arrivals. That is where the overall effort must be aimed, to be able to target a higher number, but also a higher quality. So these figures show that in 2022 we can be optimistic about even higher elements and higher arrivals and higher revenues, which we must aim for tourism there. We all want to guard them and we'll guard them. On infrastructure, I would remind you that over 320 million will be provided from the Recovery Fund to the tourism section and infrastructure in maritime tourism. Over 120 million marinas will be given so that we can increase our presence in this part, which you know is very competitive in the environment as well from the neighbouring country. The piece of medical supplies will be given over 23 million. Let me remind you that we recently voted here, in the Greek Parliament, a very important law for the part of the management of sources. In the gastronomic tourism part, we can also have a single picture and a single voice in the marketing piece. Of course, the association of the primary sector and the part of tourism continued. We voted on signs for visiting cheese, visiting olive mills and making a journey across Greece we are strengthening the visiting wineries. All of this to reason and new trends the traveler is closer to nature, closer to well-being, closer to a qualitative relationship with the environment. More qualitative choices and infrastructures are therefore needed. I remind you what happened with the EOT campaign. Because for us the EOT is the heart of effort, if you want in response to what it sounds about our 'national DMO'. We have heard this many times in committee and now, but also last time in the debate on the bill. EOT is the heart of effort. Last year, he ran the biggest campaign, the campaign "All you want is Greece", "What you wish is Greece". This year for the first time - it has not been repeated - there is the winter tourism campaign. You've ruled. I am referring to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Has there ever been anything special about winter tourism? Was there an effort for 365? A separate winter tourism campaign has not been repeated. The message that is currently being projected abroad is that Greece has indeed winter, "Greece does have a winter" and very soon, within the days, a separate campaign for domestic winter tourism is also launched for Greece. Soon there will also be a special separate campaign for City Brake, so that foreigners can come to Greece, enjoy the great cities of Athens, Thessaloniki and the other cities for the extensive weekends one can enjoy here. So all this is happening for the first time, and I think we can find courage and bravery and give credit to those who do it. From there on, obviously, we would like to criticise it if something were to be corrected, but let us not eliminate it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u37	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u38	I shall refer to two issues, because they are very important. 'Tourism for All'. It is the largest support programme for domestic tourism that has ever been made with 100 million. We tried to increase the use of vouchers. We quadrupled, almost five times, the vouches that were used in 2021. We gave a flexibility in the days, we increased the subsidy to people with disabilities, including escorts. We started payments, we passed special provisions on unregulated and tax-free for businesses, and the remaining flows of payments begin, while at the moment emphasising firefighting and affected areas. Because we passed a special provision in December and that is why. The issue of tourism education has become too many moves for Corfu, really too many invitations to cover the positions of those who resigned and you know it for IEK and for the school. At the moment there is a teacher who was transferred from Thessaloniki. I call for all this effort to be supported because solutions are actually being given to the committees too, because that was the lack of transparency in the laboratory issue. Commissioners are paid. Let me personally know that there are genuinely strong attempts to find the English teacher and not to have a gap. Man tried to find a solution, that is, to do distance training some hours from a teacher from a distance so that these hours would not be lost. I repeat, in the face of the altar of micro-policy, that the efforts actually made should not be sacrificed and that they should not be excubated many times. To take advantage of the opportunity that we currently have a man who came to take over the leadership of IEK. We must support him and from there on, on any operational issues that may be raised, and I am taking the initiative and the Minister to solve them. On the question of the Tour School, I'd like to tell you that the director resigned. The director of the Tour School from Thessaloniki was found to cover. No one responded to the invitation, just as no one has responded to the coverage of the fourth ITP site for administrative support. If we have someone to point out, we can do it. Nobody showed up there to show interest in this position. We repeat the invitations to cover these gaps all the time. Of course, because there is also the visionary one, I would like to inform the Greek Parliament - and with this to close and I will come to the committee one day specifically for this and talk about tourism education - that we have received special technical assistance from the European Commission of the order of 0.5 million to make the reorganization of tourist education with a tourist academy, with the strengthening of existing schools, with the classification and the Tourist Schools - because you know that they are currently not rated - and with measures that we will really be able to support the substantial upgrading of tourist education. I want you to give us the margin of time. At the moment I have made a working group, Steering Committee, I have sent letters to the operators to send us questionnaire replies, so we all make an effort so that tourism education, systematically, methodically to see a better future. Indeed, it is facing a lot of problems at the moment, and I do not want to stir up situations, but I certainly cannot even eliminate the efforts of executives at every school that gives themselves the best. Thank you very much and I invite you to vote on these two agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Minister. A single debate on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Tourism is closed and they will be voted on separately. We move on to vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism of Mongolia for cooperation in the tourism sector". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u40	If all Members have voted, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u41	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u42	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Environment and Tourism of Mongolia for cooperation in the field of tourism’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u43	We now vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary for cooperation in the field of tourism". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u44	If all Members have voted, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u45	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u46	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Tourism: ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary on cooperation in the field of tourism’ has been accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of it and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u48	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-19-S1-commons.u49	With the agreement of the House at 12.05 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 20 January 2022 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: One discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Modification of competition law for the digital era - Amendment of Law 3959/2011 and incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the provision of competences to competition authorities of the Member States in order to impose more effectively the rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market’.
