ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] It is the first meeting of the new year. We must have a good year, on the whole of the Bureau and the President. I wish personal and family health and happiness for all my fellow Members and colleagues, for the workers in the House, for the children of EPP, for the parliamentary authors. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the agenda, I would like to make some announcements to this House: First of all, I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Friday 14 January 2022. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 292-10-1-2022 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "By the responsibility of the Ministry of Education without "platforming" schools, in the midst of a pandemic." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 284/10-1-2022 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The government is reducing the monthly income of thousands of pensioners of up to EUR 268. Only solution to the immediate withdrawal of the relevant circular’. 3. The 295/10-1-2022 topical question by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on "Direct coverage of the needs of school nurses". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 293/10-1-2022 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Georgios Born to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Direct reinstatement of the KYA (FOB B5138, 12-11-2021) of the sale of hairdressing products'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 297/10-1-2022 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Incentives through Development Law, Recovery Fund, ESDP, etc. for the stay of businesses in earthquake-stricken areas and the setting-up of young people." 3. The question by number 298/10-1-2022 of the Radical Left Coalition MP Mr.George Papaliou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Coverning teaching gaps in the face of pan-Hellenic exams'. 4. The Question No 289/10-1-2022 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "The deadlock in implementing approved investments that small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers face from refusal to borrow banks and a significant increase in the cost of investment from serious projections of equipment and raw materials is continuing." 5. Under number 299/10-1-2022, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: ‘Extension of time limits for posting in the property register in earthquake-stricken areas and the lifting of the unfavourable treatment of ‘heirs’ during landfilling’. 6. The 303/10-1-2022 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Cyclical Tsakloglou also affects the retired Armed Forces (U.S.) and Security Bodies (S.S.)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 231/11-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "To correct now the unacceptable provision that earthquake owners of many buildings have the right to state aid, just for one of them." Furthermore, the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Deputy Ministers of Finance and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, tabled the 30-12-2021 draft law: "Following the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore to eliminate double taxation and avoid tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes and the protocol attached to it". The Ministers for Culture and Sport, Finance, Foreign, Labour and Social Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs, tabled a draft law on 5-1-2022: "Undoing the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Co-productions (Revised)". The Ministers of Culture and Sport, Finance and Foreign Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 5-1-2022: "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Administration of the People's Republic of China on: "A translation and publication of works of the reason of the classical and modern bibliography of China and Greece". The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, as the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law on 5-1-2022: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport". The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economics, Foreign Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Civil Protection, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, as well as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs submitted a draft law on 5-1-2022: "Furtherance of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport". The Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Economic, External, Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs submitted a draft law on 7-1-2022: "Following the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Subregional Need for Marine Pollution from Oil in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in urgent cases, on combating pollution from the Mediterranean Sea of the Barcelona Convention". They were referred to the competent Standing Committees. Also, the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport’. B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport’. C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Sub-Region Plan of Emergency for Oil Pollution in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in urgent cases, to Combat Mediterranean Pollution of the Barcelona Convention’. The Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs presents its reports to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: (a) 'Preparation of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinemas (Revised)', and (b) 'Clarification of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Administration of the People's Republic of China on: 'A translation and publication of works of the reason of the classical and contemporary bibliography of China and Greece'. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Furthermore, the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital and the Protocol attached thereto". Finally, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers for Development and Investment, Economic, Education and Religious Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Home Affairs, Infrastructure and Transport and State, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs submitted on 11-1-2022 a draft law: ‘Modification of competition law for the digital era — Amendment of Law 3959/2011 and incorporating Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on conferring competence on the competition authorities of the Member States to enforce more effectively the rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda. LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft laws of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: 1. ‘Clarification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport’. 3. ‘Preparation of the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Sub-Region Plan of Emergency for Oil Pollution in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in urgent cases, to Combat Mediterranean Pollution of the Barcelona Convention’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and, in some way, the Rules of Procedure and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that the President of their parliamentary group does not speak. The vote on all three conventions will take place at the end of their debate separately and in the order of debate. I think there is no objection to the procedure, it is typical.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to the procedure, which will be followed, I found that I, as a Change Movement, have voted in favour of all three sanctions, which does not give me the opportunity to speak as rapporteur. I would therefore ask your Bureau to give me the floor for a five-minute period.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u5	As you know beyond what the Bureau reads...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u6	I do not question what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u7	I'm saying something else. I say that it is customary and asks the Bureau at the end even to those who had no objections, so they are not actually entitled to the floor, and one or the rapporteur or the parliamentary representative if he wants to speak for a few minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u8	If I may, I would not like the parliamentary representative to question his opportunity to intervene. I, as rapporteur, would ask your Bureau as far as possible to give me this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u9	That's what I told you. Don't you get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u11	That is what I said, despite the fact that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the Rules of Procedure are read out because there are few people to speak, so the sitting will be short you will be asked when the time comes. That's the way it always happens. We'll start, first of all, with those who were against. In the Clearance of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates the Communist Party of Greece is against, the Greek Solution is "residents", THEA25 is "residents", the Change Movement and the New Democracy is pro- and SYRIZA is subject to reservation. So we will start with the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, may I speak for one or all of you?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u13	Look. Since you're the only one for all three, I'll put you ten minutes and with a little tolerance and come talk about all three. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let us say that any agreement such as today is part of and is certainly judged within the overall framework of transnational economic relations. Especially now, in the United Arab Emirates Agreement, the action of the Greek armaments capital is being guaranteed and further strengthened, so that it takes an even more important role in the export of natural gas and oil from that country. But you know, it's not just those kind of trade agreements. As both the current and, of course, all previous governments are increasingly involved in the new Euro-Atlantic security strategy in the Gulf region, which has leaped towards deepening the military relations of our country and with Arab states, United States allies, such as the United Arab Emirates. After all, the plans and the lyophils of capital go a package with the involvement of the country in the warship plans of the United States, NATO, the European Union for the control of wealth production and roads in their competition, of course, with other centres of imperialism. That is why the Greek frying "HYDRA" was for a long time in the United Arab Emirates in February 1921 at the request of the United States that Greece also participate with its own warship in surveillance missions of the Strait of the Persian Gulf, while both the air forces of the two countries are regularly involved. Of course, the aim is to shield the American-Russian interests against their competitors Russia and China, which of course constitute their own economic and military precursors in the region, by developing deeper cooperation relations with Iran. We therefore have an intensity of competition for the control of the spheres of influence, the roads of energy trade, and even in conditions such that the United States' leading position is openly questioned in the global imperialist system on the one hand and, on the other, the strategic role of the Straits of the Ormuz and the Gulf on the other hand is again reflected in the strategic role of the whole of the Persian Gulf. As is well known from this point, 1/5 of crude oil exports to the world are currently moving, and it is also part of the most important channel to date in world trade. It is, of course, both the crossroads and the sea road to China's silk. Therefore, the aim is the region's closest naval enterprise and, of course, the creation of strong allied impurities in competitive interests. And all this has nothing to do with defending and defending our country's sovereign rights. We mention all this because the particularly close ties between Greece and the United Arab Emirates do not concern the peoples and their common interests, but they reveal another American cutting axis set by the Greek Government, because beyond the control of the region's rich energy deposits and without, of course, undoing the special interests at stake in the states in question, the Euro-Atlantic alliance and especially the United States sees the Persian Gulf and the Middle East as an abatement, as we have said, in the penetration of Chinese monopolies into land and sea. In this very dangerous design, Americans play an upgraded role and our country on behalf of the Greek bourgeoisie. And here is the development of economic and military relations between all Greek governments and states of the Gulf, such as Emirates. We recall that the ratification of this memorandum with the United Arab Emirates was signed by the previous SYRIZA Government and today is ratified by the New Democracy Government and may, as mentioned in the first article, not relate either to warships or to fishing vessels, but to be a legal basis for bilateral maritime trade relations and for international maritime transport services, but its twenty-fifth articles concern the interests of the owners of shipping companies, namely shipowners, and nowhere mention is made, nor are they mentioning, nor are they mentioning, the rights of seafarers, that is to say, the unstoppable profits of shipowners. There is no word in the agreement for the application of collective agreements, for organic positions which meet the real needs of protecting safety at sea. This cooperation ultimately does not benefit the people of the countries, but only their business groups in maritime transport, and at the same time, of course, our country is even more involved in militant Euro-Atlantic designs. We are therefore voting against this agreement for all these reasons. The agreement with Tunisia is similar even though the differences between the two countries are of course large, Tunisia and the United Arab Emirates. What the bourgeoisie is interested in, and especially our country's armament capital, is to gain a greater role the next day not only in the bilateral economic relations between the two countries, but in general in the course of Tunisia's capitalist economic reconstruction. In other words, the aim is to strengthen the armaments capital and not public welfare. More specifically now, the government, through and through this agreement, attempts to broaden the "costs" of the Greek bourgeoisie in the Mediterranean, where the bazaar for maritime zones and capital bishops is intensified. After all, the Greek Foreign Minister visited Tunisia a few months ago and delivered hundred thousand vaccines from Greece as a message of solidarity with the Tunisian people, he said, and, of course, discussed the strengthening of bilateral relations. Or, otherwise, this can be called openly ‘dispatching the vaccines to the service of the business plans of the chapter’. This is, of course, the most famous "National Strategic Extroverty Plan", which has been presented in a governmental feast full of assurances to local and foreign business groups, that the urban state will support them wholeheartedly and not worry, find profitable fields abroad and have, of course, here in the country all those conditions that ensure their profitability. In fact, in the same context it was stressed that the work of diplomats is to sell Greece abroad with objectives, not only to our traditional allies, but also to countries from which investment can be attracted or penetrated into the vast market in areas such as Africa, for example. Previous developments in Tunisia seemingly were political reasons. The intensification of this country's intra-urban opposition has as its main basis the economic crisis. This development was not ‘poor in hunger’. For a long time, a large part of the Tunisian people were on the streets protesting the dramatic worsening of their lives and among them, of course, there were supporters of the Islamists of Enkada, an organization which maintains very close relations with both Muslim Brothers, but also with AKP, the Turkish ruling party of Erdogan. Thus, the dismissal of the Mashi government came as a culmination of the more general deterioration of the economic and social situation and the endemic rival that escalated with the so-called Arab Spring a decade ago. Of course, this 'Spring' at all but spring has brought peoples. On the contrary, it has contributed to the exacerbation of fierce competition in the wider region of North Africa and the Middle East, as we see from the massacre in many countries in this region: Libya, Syria, Lebanon, etc. In this way, we have recently seen various movement of resurgences of relations between competing states in the region that collide on different fronts, resuming the "pipe", making opportunities for new profits from the next day's reconstruction, of course, on the ruins left by the fierce conflicts and imperialist interventions in countries such as Syria, Libya, Egypt, Tunisia, Algeria, etc. It must be clear to the people, of course, that all this mobility, the rotations of roles and the new possible patterns of imperialist cooperation will not bring anything positive for the peoples nor, of course, eliminate the strong competition for market control. Nothing positive is going to be brought either by this agreement between Greece and Tunisia, because it is quite simply not about the interests of the people, but about the interests of logistics. And, of course, for all these reasons, we are voting against it. I now come to the last agreement, the agreement with Israel, which was made by SYRIZA and this one in 2018 at the Fourth Summit of Greece - Cyprus - Israel. Indeed, at that time, it was noted that the design of the EastMed pipeline would be further promoted and new agreements signed between the three countries. There was an emphasis on the need to strengthen cooperation between Greece - Cyprus - Israel, as well as on how Cyprus could be integrated into the many initiatives that the government is running in the well-known Euro-Atlantic pattern in the Balkans. Basically, behind the sound words about strategic cooperation, about peace, which were said at the time by the SYRIZA government and today are repeated by the Government of New Democracy, the dangerous war competition in the region is hidden, of course, by the creation of the climate of this kind and the search for those convenient pretexts. Moreover, capital's plans and lyrics go hand-in-hand with the involvement in warplane plans of the United States and NATO, as well as the donor states, such as the State of Israel, in controlling wealth-producing sources. In these plans, there is an absolute commitment of all Greek governments. Of course, now such an agreement on the prevention of pollution from ships and the fight against pollution from the Mediterranean is certainly also linked to the EEZ and the continental shelf and the seabed, namely the country's sovereign rights. Constantly, it opens up issues with both Turkey and the EastMed pipeline, which is intended to connect the gas deposits from Israel and Cyprus through Greece for Europe. In the meantime, however, there is a resurgence of relations between Israel and Turkey, but also the United States, which seemed to support the EastMed pipeline, seem to be rethinking it if they do not reject it. It seems that this was a project, which was intended to act as a lever for pressure and negotiating paper from the United States in their bazaars with Turkey on the conditions for its participation in the co-existence plans in the region and, of course, to ensure the well-founded naval cohesion of NATO's south-eastern wing. At the same time, she strengthened her military presence in the region. In fact, in the US non-paper, it is expressly mentioned that EastMed's project is, he says, a focus of tensions in the region, thus taking a picture of Turkey's unacceptable claims against the Cyprus EEZ as well as in the wider region of Kastelorizo as a reason for rejecting the pipeline. In other words, the United States' interest was until Turkey entered the game. Now, of course, SYRIZA and New Democracy may also appear as cheating husbands, but they are the ones who have made sure that the whole country is turned into a huge military base with great risks to our people. This Convention is of the nature of pre-emptive and not comprehensive preventive measures and in the background is also linked to the more general planning of the three urban classes, parts of the Convention, to Turkey's urban order for the exploitation of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u15	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President. Although the JRC does consider that there is an urgent need for an integrated management and protection of the seas and oceans, mainly in prevention, but all this in the agreement is dealt with as an alibi, because in order to achieve the protection of the sea it is necessary to take measures of intrinsic safety, namely risk prevention at source, by making use of all modern possibilities. Such measures, however, are impossible to apply in the context of this capitalist development path, where the prevailing criterion is only long-term safeguarding the profitability of business groups and not protecting health and the environment. We are therefore also voting against this agreement with Israel, this country which is the killer of the Palestinian people, because after all there is a great, huge contradiction. Israel, as is well known, is one of the four states which, together with the United States in 1982, voted against the Treaty on the Law of the Sea. Is it possible for all of these to protect it environmentally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u17	We'll go backwards. Therefore, Mr Kriton Arsenis will now be given the floor, because I see that his party is 'the present', 'the present' and according to the latter. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are truly shocked by the text. I shall refer particularly to the third convention. We have SYRIZA and now the New Democracy that recognises the great, the huge risk of an accident from oil extraction, and that is why they want help, they cannot carry it out on their own - and obviously they cannot - and they want the assistance of Cyprus and Israel. Really, will the assistance of Cyprus and Israel be faced with an oil accident like this in the Gulf of Mexico? Let's say it more simply, the Gulf of Mexico was at three thousand meters, while all mining that the three parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA and KINAL-PASOK have promoted, is much less than three thousand meters, at five thousand meters below. In the Greek Tafero that you want to bomb with sonars, to see the oil and natural gases, the only place to breed the Mediterranean whale, the depth of the bottom in many places starts in three and a half thousand meters and you will go lower. That's why it's not all going any further. But you recognize the danger and continue the mining at the same time. It's incomprehensible what's going on. I would also expect SYRIZA's side, rather than meddling the government that does not go ahead with pipelines and mining, to have realised what is happening and, at the moment, to change course for mining and pipelines. Why don't you do it? Why right now, with our home burning from climate change, is SYRIZA still in his position, this oil and gas thirst? For the rest of the parties, likewise. Of course, in planning the government, SYRIZA and KINAL for natural gas and oil mining comes the reality. The last one's gonna close the door. One after another, your multinationals leave. I'll tell you in turn how things happened. The Spanish 'REPSOL' has left Ioannina first. Then she left the Yanna, where you gave her the right to do whatever she wants. They went to the people's farms, they didn't get permission, and they did investigations. He did what he wanted and yet - you should be surprised at the three parties - they got up and went. In the Ionian, this tourist fillet, you made it for them unconditionally. They got up and went. The Italian "EDISON" in western Patraikos, the large fillet of your mining that would be the next Prino with a certain look, he rose and left. The ELPEs in Arta and Preveza are gone. They left the western-northwest Peloponnese. And now, of course, to a great deal of frustration as I hear SYRIZA, and obviously the government, the United States is pulling EastMed out of her aegis. Obviously, now that they've taken all the geopolitical privileges with the bases, they don't do you a favor on that too. You're really giving it to anyone who asks for it for free over and over. Should you make international agreements? You should do it. Yes, the moment our home is burning, you should do something to protect the Mediterranean environment. But you can't. You're so thirsty for these oil and natural gas that's destroyed our planet now that everyone's leaving there. Why did REPSOL,EDISON, ELPE and the United States leave EstMed? In their communications there is a common word, 'carbonisation', what the whole planet is doing right now. But you are not alone in these three parties in Greece. You're not alone in your backward path. You also have a backward comfy with you, some other country leaders in the Eastern Mediterranean. You're working with some people. You're competing with some people. All of them are ready to make war on who will mine the natural gas and oil of the past. You should go out ahead to stop mining in order to restore peace. That would be what would bring prosperity to the place. You should go out ahead and make transnational agreements to protect the environment in the Mediterranean. Do you have any idea what will happen if the Mediterranean whales are destroyed? Do you have any idea what will happen if this unique place of reproduction of the whales of the Mediterranean that is the Greek Treasury is destroyed? You don't have the slightest idea. You don't have the slightest idea, and yet you're risking it! You have no idea what their role is for the health of the Mediterranean, for fish stocks, for nature, for tackling climate change. You don't have the slightest idea, and yet you're playing everything in the dice. You should make arrangements to protect these sensitive marine systems, the gifts we have. What does the UN say? The United Nations is saying that this 2020-2030, the most critical to tackling climate collapse, is the decade of the restoration of natural ecosystems. Why does the United Nations say that? Because if we do not protect what we have left of nature, we have no chance of climate collapse. Do you understand that? Do you understand that? Do you want, as you say, to protect our seas from the risk of an accident on a mining platform and the risk of an accident in pipelines? Stop making mining and pipelines. This is the best way to avoid this danger. If Mr. Dendias from your Government is right and you do not intend to proceed to mining - which we wish, to stop this comedy - then the contract you bring us is to help other countries with accidents on their platforms? Say it. Say it's a contract that's not really about our country. Tell us what's going on. In any case, however, stop the oil and gas mining. Protect the Mediterranean environment. Our house is burning! It's burned by the ecological collapse, by the climatic collapse. Stop the fire! Stop putting on a fire! With regard to the other two conventions, which concern once again the provision of logistical capital, the parliamentary representative, Mrs Bakadima, who was also rapporteur in the committee, will speak more in detail. We call on you to withdraw this contract with Cyprus and Israel for the assistance of mining accidents and oil pipelines. If you want to make a transfer, make it special. What you have brought us is truly a disgrace and it is unacceptable to recognise the danger to our seas and our economy and our environment from oil and gas extraction and pipelines and to fight here for who promotes them more. It is unacceptable and we invite you to return to common sense and to protect this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u19	The floor will now be taken by Mr Vassiliou Viliardos from the Greek Solution, where in the agreement with Cyprus and Israel he was reserved, and in the agreement with Tunisia he also reserved the United Arab Emirates the Greek Solution with the United Arab Emirates. Here, Mr. Villardo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, starting with the agreement on cooperation in maritime transport with the United Arab Emirates, I will say that in committee we said that it was signed on 4 May 2017, and we asked why it was so delayed in being tabled to vote, without getting any reply. Then we stressed that we have good relations with the United Arab Emirates, describing the country and its economy. As we have said, efforts have been made in recent years to diversify their economy, focusing on Dubai, in the various sectors that we have described, such as the shipping sector which is literally diagnosed, and we have said in particular that a free economic zone has been established and a plan has been drawn up to attract international industries, the Dubai Industrial Strategy 2030. We have drawn attention to the fact that we in Greece should have something similar with a view at least in 2030, which should be the main tool of the Ministry of Development and not only the sale of the country to foreigners, turning Greece into a dependent economy. Without such a long-term plan for our industry, as well, without a long-term stable fiscal framework, we will never escape the crisis and the memorials - which, of course, continue, as the government itself has assured us - from governments that do not produce wealth, as they should, but are constantly only deficits and debts. Incidentally, we have long been proposing to reduce VAT on primary fuels and fuels. On the one hand, to combat accuracy and, on the other, to slow down inflation, which is not transient, as the government claimed, unlike us, which we stressed at the outset would remain. All this, without the burden of the public, which is currently unfairly collected on increased prices. Furthermore, we asked what had happened with the United Arab Emirates co-existence programme in Greek enterprises through the TANEO, announced in 2018, without getting an answer or an answer here, while we noted that recently the United Arab Emirates promised more than $10 billion in support of the Turkish economy. We did not receive an answer to the other seven questions that we asked on the articles, and there is, of course, no need to repeat, by closing down by the fact that the General Accounting Office of the State does not have any cost, although it notes that there can be some from cooperation, especially in education. But he doesn't mention anything. Finally, we said that the convention is not negative, since, on the one hand, it is important that we cooperate with the United Arab Emirates, on the other hand, there may be benefits for our Greek shipping and business, since the United Arab Emirates is a portal to the Gulf and a transit centre to Asia, at a strategic geographical point. The main negative point, however, apart from having received no response, is the recent approach by the United Arab Emirates to Turkey, which we have said will support with $10 billion investment, which, obviously, makes us very cautious. In the agreement with Tunisia now, signed on 29 June 2020, we said that its relations with Greece are at a good level, while its Presidency is trying to limit the influence of the Islamists of the Ninja Party, which is considered a representative of the Muslim Brotherhood, known as Egypt. We noted that Erdogan visited Tunisia at the end of 2019, seeking to secure the creation of a maritime base close to Libya, in order to strengthen his position, but this was rejected by the country, which has - rightly - a neutral attitude to the Libyan crisis. We then analysed its economy, which is very poor, with a weak shipping, just about $3,500 per capita income, unlike the United Arab Emirates and especially Dubai, which has evolved into an international centre with high turnovers from the maritime sector, as Piraeus should reasonably have. The first thing that doubted us is Article 12, which refers to as proof of the identity of crew members, only Tunisia's naval brochure, without the passport. We asked why it is happening and whether there is a risk of immigration, especially if the brochure is a fake, which is relatively easy, without, of course, getting an answer. The second is Article 16, which allows nationals of either Party to be chartered on board the ships of the other Party on terms freely negotiated or collective agreements if they exist and are subject to the law of the flag country. In this respect, we stressed that there is a risk that Greek jobs would be lost by Tunisia's much cheaper workforce, which is certainly not positive for our country. We continued with Article 24, which does not specify whether profits will be taxed, nor whether there is provision for avoiding double taxation, while we disagreed with Article 27 with regard to resolving disputes only by diplomatic means, preferring recourse to courts. Finally, we said that the General Accounting Office of the State does not have any cost, although it notes that there can be cooperation especially in education. Maybe! Overall, however, it is positive to develop our cooperation with Tunisia, including as a counterweight to Turkey's moves. It is, however, up to both parties to cooperate for geopolitical reasons, as well as for business, as a gateway to North Africa and as a strategic point in the Mediterranean, noting that the gas pipeline to Italy is going through Tunisia. It's very important. However, when the Minister does not answer any questions, referring only to few phrases in the geopolitical significance of the two agreements, it is impossible to vote in favour of them. The third Convention now concerns cooperation between Greece, Cyprus and Israel with a view to preventing, on the one hand, the fight against marine pollution from oil and other polluting substances in ships and, on the other hand, the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Mediterranean. It was signed on May 8, 2018, but is filed for ratification almost four years later. We also mentioned the fact that it was submitted at the time the non paper was published to challenge the feasibility of building the EastMed pipeline for hydrocarbons and the same Mediterranean region. We have stressed that the Convention is part of cooperation with EastMed, as it concerns the same countries. Otherwise, it would be enough for the programmes of the country or of the European Union, such as the Regional Direct Intervention Centre to deal with the pollution of the Mediterranean Sea, which is mentioned here, to have been held recently by a conference of twenty-one Mediterranean countries. We then asked which area will be protected from pollution when there are no demarcated EEZs, how much more so when there are transnational conflicts even to rescue shipwrecks or to navigate research vessels from third countries. Of course, we did not receive an answer here, saying, in addition, that by ratifying the contract without EastMed, it seems like we are undertaking an uncoordinated obligation on our side - that is very important - without a clear reason. We've said it's gonna be like building a garage in case he buys a car. It's stupid. We mentioned EastMed more in detail, stressing that he is technologically precarious and geostrategic, due to Italy's trend, mainly from the outset that did not appear in the signing of the agreement in January. We have also referred to the new developments in the United States that do not obviously support him because of Turkey, evading that it is not their own decision but the markets, which, however, did not ask how much less the gas price at that time compared to today. However, this is extremely worrying for Greece that has offered land and water to the United States with regard to the bases throughout its territory, and it seems that EastMed does not like the Turkish allies, the Germans, who treat us as their own debt colony. Continuing on the articles we said that they are concise and general, while the most important content is found in the annexes, including technical details of cooperation, contacts with administrative authorities, formal request for assistance, technical details of the communication system, the indicative treatment of oil spills, etc. In this regard, these are issues of specialised technical analysis and not of political assessment, let alone when no cost is provided here by the General Accounting Office. As we have said, it is impossible to judge the various rescue methods and the structure that is being launched without knowing the costs. In this regard, should we not at some point assess policy on the basis of its results or, at any rate, specific objectives and not simply intentionally? Otherwise, will we not be constantly having the same concerns, the same failures, as the EUR 43 billion of loans that have been wasted, without avoiding the Greeks' health and financial impoverishment? Not to mention their security, where the government itself passed a university protection law and was unable to protect either the professor in ASEAN yesterday. If that's possible! In conclusion, we said that we could not vote against the agreement, but we should be aware of its rationale, its cost, where EastMed is going, as well as of cooperation in the Eastern Mediterranean as well as with the United States. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer here either - where we did not get an answer - which is certainly disappointing for this ministry. Therefore, our position on all three conventions can only be 'the present'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u21	We're getting to SYRIZA now. He held a reservation on the United Arab Emirates, a reservation on Tunisia and had voted in favour of the convention with Cyprus and Israel. Mr. Michaelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, we had the pleasure of hearing the conventions that the national Parliament brings, but we have not had the pleasure of hearing the ratification of the memorandum of cooperation with Northern Macedonia. It is true that the sanctions of various countries are completely lacking in the sanctions of the memorandums with Northern Macedonia. Mr President, allow me, as a Member of Parliament, to welcome from this position the struggle of the citizens of my island and of the neighbouring Lesvos, to prevent the government from creating over-structured refugees on our islands, the citizens who close their ears to the smuggling, fraudulent meadows and the Byzantineisms of Mr Mitsarakis and the government from trying to turn our islands into prisons of souls, tyranned people and to assure them that we are all present, united and determined not to pass on to them. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the ratification of three transnational agreements on matters falling within the competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The first agreement was signed under rule SYRIZA in May 2017 and relates to the Memorandum of Cooperation with the United Arab Emirates on Institutional Cooperation in Maritime Transport. This memorandum deals with the activities of ships in maritime trade between the two countries, notably in the transport of oil and their cooperation in general in the maritime sector. For these purposes, measures are envisaged by both parties to speed up formalities in ports, to identify mutually the travel documents of crew members, to provide - on the basis of reciprocity, of course - the possibility of setting up branches relating to international maritime transport services and, in general, to facilitate shipping traffic and related activities. Likewise, although relatively extended content, the second agreement, the one with Tunisia, was signed last June. This agreement is in the spirit of other transnational agreements on maritime transport, such as the agreement that was ratified last year between Greece and Israel. One point which our rapporteur has pointed out in the debate on this agreement in committee is that it does not include regulatory or protective provisions, concerning fishing vessels and the related activity that is developing strongly in this Mediterranean region. A second point, Minister, concerns the recognition of seafarers' training certificates and the questions of whether the training provided in that country is equal and proportionate to our level, a possibility of a possible heterogeneous relationship between the two countries in this area. The third agreement is tripartite between Greece, Cyprus and Israel. It was also signed on our own government in May 2018 as the crowning of a process that had begun in 2016. On the one hand, this agreement forms part of the regional scheme concerning the protection of the Mediterranean Sea, as it is primarily regulated by the Barcelona Convention of 1976 and its accompanying protocols, in fact the sub-regional plan containing an agreement which is part of the provisions of the Convention's prevention and emergency protocol. On the other hand, this agreement forms part of the wider tripartite strategic cooperation between our country, Cyprus and Israel in promoting their coordination in a number of policy areas, with a view to promoting common interests and good neighbourliness and stability in the South-East Mediterranean. We are, of course, concerned about the latest developments in the attitude of the United States to the EastMed pipeline, which was raised by other colleagues who spoke earlier. Although it is, of course, evading your portfolio, Minister, this issue, we note the fact that your Government has not adequately defended this project that is vital and crucial to the interests of the country. In view of the fact that the first two agreements are part of a wider framework of transnational agreements, which are part of Greece as a coastal country and as a global force in the field of commercial shipping, and the fact that the third agreement is aimed at transnational cooperation for the protection of the sea, an objective which is self-evidently important for the protection of the environment and tourism in our country, we are voting in favour of these agreements. Minister, allow me to address two issues, in addition to today's bill that we are discussing, taking advantage of - in the good sense - your presence today in plenary. The first issue is the high delay in the payment of the equivalent of transport. We are, of course, aware of the intolerability of the government towards this flagship measure of our own governance, a pillar measure for island policy. Unfortunately, the transport equivalent has not been paid for some passengers since May 2021 and, indeed, for some businesses since 2020. At the same time, in the 2022 budget, the expenditure of the Secretariat-General for Island Policy appear to be shrinking from the corresponding expenditure in the previous years. This is an issue that we also mentioned during the budget debate, Minister. We have also been informed that the payment of the passenger equivalent, which you announced on 15 January, may be for fares up to 30 June 2021. We would like an answer to this issue. One point which we would also like to see is the dimension that you have made in relation to the rescues made by the Port Parliament and the information concerning the arrivals of refugees and immigrants in the country, as was provided by the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr Metarakis. In particular, eight thousand sixty-sixteen refugees and immigrants were declared by Mr Mitaraki that they arrived in the country, twenty-nine thousand rescues of refugees and immigrants from the Port House, you said, Minister. These twenty thousand - their difference - what happened, Minister? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want your tolerance for two minutes, Mr President. Accordingly, for 2020, there seems to have been twenty-seven thousand thirty-four rescues, which have been reported to Commissioner Johanson, fourteen thousand eight hundred forty-eight says Mr Matetarakis. The rest of what happened, Minister? Disappeared? A little hard. We fear that you have pushed back forwards into a key management tool for the refugee-migration problem. We're afraid you're working on inhumane practices that expose the country. We're afraid you're feeding the neighboring country with arguments to move the finger in our country. Who? A country that we all know how respects international law and human rights. In this sense, I think you are, indeed, dangerous to the country. It's another reason, among many others, that I think you should leave as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u23	We are now going backwards to the parliamentary representatives of both parties who were in favour of the agreements. If the parliamentary representative does not want, the rapporteur will speak, one of the two, whoever wants. The Change Movement is one, anyway, so that's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u24	Mr. President, what about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u25	You'll talk too. I said that the parliamentary representatives who will both be in favour of the agreements will speak. You guys will talk anyway. But we should go backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u27	One will speak. Look, we won't completely humiliate the Rules of Procedure. We've already semi-exhausted him for this process. You all know him. Let one talk about a contract of you two and the other one about the other two, five minutes each. Okay? Because it happened the same with SYRIZA. The rest of you are one anyway. Don't waste time. Mrs. Bakada is not here? It's okay. We're moving on. Mr. Hetas has the floor. Because of a new year instead of five you'll have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u28	Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u29	Everybody. We're starting with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u30	You continue the presents, Mr President. Happy New Year!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u31	You too. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u32	Be well. I am simply going to use the right as Parliamentary Representatives to make a report, because it is the first one...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u33	Whatever you say. I don't care. In your time, be.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u34	You'll be interested. It's very interesting what I'm going to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u35	No, I mean it's your right to say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, we are trying to balance between logic and insanity in this country and what we are living for, and because we are dealing with a government which, whether it has a problem of perception or a refusal of reality, we have to move on with certain positions relating to the daily life of the Greek citizen. In this new year, in 2022, I think I should make a little reference, Mr President, to important issues relating to Greek citizens, Greeks and Greeks. And that's who? An important, basic part of our, pillar, say, is the economy. Another important part is health. Another important part is the security that the Greek citizen feels out there or does not feel. And you see, the facts are the ones that expose you as government, Mr Plakatakis and ladies and gentlemen of the government every day. I can't make a reference to the part of the economy. I'll start over there. You know, within the days ELSTAT will announce inflation levels for the month of December and, according to the data so far, we will go over 5%. +5% will be a new decade's record. It is one of the highest percentages it records in the country especially after entering the Eurozone. High levels of inflation in the country are expected to last for the first half of the year. Do you know what you're saying? You say: 'But in other countries it is higher, we are good here'. You know, we do care more about Greece. We are more interested in our citizens, Greeks and Greeks. Even if the other countries go wrong, we're interested in what's going on here. The billiettes come every day. For what's going on, I don't know if you have any contact with the world out there. And that's not populism. Here we find it difficult for us to respond, which we do not have. Imagine the world out there how it is called daily to meet the obligations. And the point, the frustrating really with you, what is it? These big problems, which, if you wish, have bombed the Greek household, your allies, well-paid, well-paid media parrots, hide them, because in any other case it would be a mess with the accuracy that exists out there, the economic crisis, the energy and all that. But what are we reading? We read about the end that one will win in mobile telephony, which is abolished, etc. And we're reading it. But if you see how much that is, if you ask, it's 1 to 1,5 euros a month and you've gone crazy with the abolition of the mobile telephony fee, which is 1,5 euros a month. That's a big job! That's a lot of work, while the other one's bogging and can't pay! Whether they advertise and advertise in your way very nicely - because you are a government of communication and not a fundamental - the increase in wages. A raise in wages, says, 2%, or 13 euros a month. Yes, but you know, for example, because you always bring the phrase 'Europe is doing it, we are doing it', Europe's wages are different. Your friend Germany the minimum wage is 1,700 euros, is not 580. So it's 1,700. In Italy it is 1.680, in the Netherlands it is 1,650, in France, 1,600, in Austria, 1,500, in Spain, 1,000, in Cyprus is 900. What are we comparing apples with oranges? How can a person who gets 580 euros and has to pay 80 euros for electricity or 180 and 200? With the 30 euros in Screka? What's that? Relief? How can this society respond? Tell us a little, let me get this straight. Now let's go a little bit for the tests, because that's where science actually raises hands. Now we've been talking to Vassili Villard outside. This is a cartel, Mr President. We're talking about a cartel! Where's the competition? You're a doctor, Mr. President. It says, it was 60 euros and now 47 the PCR. Why? Tell me why in Greece it is 47 euros and 10 euros the rapids? Austria - to make it possible for all citizens to carry out a free molecular test, Mr President, even if they have no symptoms. In Germany where the minimum wage is 1,700 euros - I have data here - they have a rapid test a day for every citizen, with a mobile appointment. The Germans, too, have Pierracakis, we don't only have one. It's free, no waiting, and there's a center for a test in every neighborhood. In France rapid test and moleculars are free of charge with a referral. We here pay a load of insurance contributions and it doesn't justify going to do a PCR. Why? How are we gonna pay 47 euros? I can. The others outside, what are they going to do? Whether you're vaccinated or not, which is all, 80% has gone or 70%. It's not about vaccines anymore, it's about control, about control of dispersal. It's all free in England. The self-tests are free of charge from everywhere. In Cyprus, we discussed this, where the minimum wage is EUR 900, is EUR 25 and 20 for families and students. So, we - I don't really understand - why don't we? What kind of cartel is that? Where is competition to reduce prices? Competition works in favour of the consumer. They've got to answer that. Instead, while we say it - the whole Opposition together - and we - and people outside shepherds, yelling, sighs, you what do you say? 'I see no accuracy.' You're the superstar ministers who go to the supermarkets. I don't understand, he says, no accuracy, people love me, I go shopping, and I get a self-help photo. That's good reason! Very nice logic. I really don't understand where this could lead. I do not know, Mr President, that we are elsewhere. I don't know. We pay insurance contributions, yes or no? Should the tests and PCR be prescribed? Yeah. This is a fixed position of ours and we call it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'll tell you something. We are now seeing you in handling and we would like answers. You have closed the economy - and I shall end, Mr President - with fifty cases. You have destroyed, dismantled the business in the middle, the small and medium-sized, the Greek family, the economy. We borrowed 43.3 billion and now with fifty thousand cases everything is open. Question: Will we close them? Of course not. We were against the lockdown then, against the lockdown now. All your measures have yielded nothing. The economy has been destroyed, we are unfortunately champions in cases and deaths, and the other countries that have taken other models, Mr President, such as Switzerland, which you know is a serious country, with a population of around us, has fewer deaths. We went through Switzerland. And her economy kept up...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u37	Come on, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President. The same of course, except for Switzerland, Sweden did too. So you have to ask yourself that something you don't do right. Your mistakes are a lot. You can't celebrate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't have time to say about security. You joined the House as "sheriffs" to enforce the law and order, you also voted for the police for the universities and became a mess...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u39	Come on, you're done, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u40	I conclude, Mr President, but I can't, I'm right and it chokes me, what can I do? I'll see you later. The year will be very intense, and I hope you'll mind, because the world out there is really going through a lot of trouble. Get in touch with society, you've lost her completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u41	We said to deviate from the point of view, but you have 'finished'. All right, and Mr. Michaelides said for a minute about what's going on in Chios. But that's another thing that's happened. We have covered by the Communist Party. Mr. Scandalidis, will you take the floor too?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u42	I want a two-three-minute intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u43	All right, let me take care of the time. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic, which has haunted our lives, are currently discussing three transnational agreements in plenary today, which are undoubtedly a positive development for the maritime prospects of our country. However, I have the impression, Minister, that much more could be done at that time. This is because, in the case of Greek seafarers, their work was particularly affected by the measures to combat pandemic. The government could, therefore, strengthen their employment and earnings. On the other hand, it preferred to reduce the minimum number of Greeks required in the crew compositions of vessels under Greek flag and, on the other hand, to apply the low third-world collective labour agreements on the grounds that it would attract young people to the naval occupation, notably to the minimum crew. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the performance of the New Democracy Government at least in terms of the country's international maritime presence is inconsistent with the size and power of Greek shipping and the expectations of all of us. Unfortunately, our country's maritime policy, as it has been doing in recent years, is characterised by a deficit of vision, strategic planning, consultation and transparency, but also by documentation and results, I would say. In recent years, given the significant environmental challenges faced by humanity, regulatory initiatives and measures have been intensified both at European and international level to reduce the negative impact on the environment by the operation of ships and, in general, maritime activity. Unfortunately, it is a particular impression and reflection that even today the leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy fails to play the decisive role that times require in terms of our country's maritime policy. It is now continuing to question the contribution of shipping, and even at an increasing rate in the phenomenon of climate change through greenhouse gas emissions, particularly carbon dioxide, from the burning of oil from ships' engines, and the advisability and effectiveness of the recent ban on use by ships with a high sulphur content, which is intended to limit the particular healthly harmful sulphur dioxide emissions of people. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two sanctions for maritime transport between the Greek Government and the Government of the United Arab Emirates and Tunisia and a ratification of the transnational agreement between Greece, Cyprus and Israel on the implementation of an emergency plan to provide mutual assistance to prevent and combat marine pollution from ships, from offshore platforms and exploitation of hydrocarbons, oil and gas. The two transnational maritime transport agreements we are called upon to ratify in the Greek Parliament, both with the Government of the United Arab Emirates, established under governance SYRIZA in 2017 and the agreement with the Tunisian Government, which was drawn up and signed by the current Minister for Maritime and Island Policy in 2020, provide a broadly positive framework for strengthening the cooperation of mutual facilitations between the States Parties in the field of shipping and maritime transport. As regards the agreement with Cyprus and Israel, this is an international agreement concluded in 2018 under the SYRIZA Government, which the Government of New Democracy has submitted to ratification by the Greek Parliament, with a view to the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. There is no doubt that this agreement is an important project to protect the marine environment from oil pollution. At the same time, strengthening cooperation with Cyprus and Israel within a wider marine space in the Eastern Mediterranean can also serve as a means of supporting our country's geostrategic pursuits and national interests. In this sense, having as a basic ideological value the protection of the environment, but also with a sense of responsibility and patriotic conscience, as the PASOK and the Change Movement have always done, either as a government or as a opposition, we fully support the ratification of this agreement. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this sitting to point out once again that the Government has to apologize for its accumulated failures and weaknesses in the field of maritime and insular policy, not to us, but to the citizens of this country and our islands for the work it should have done and for the low expectations of managing and controlling COVID on ships with significant impact on public health and tourism, for the non-expansion of the reduced VAT on all islands, for the failure to take substantial measures to strengthen the infrastructures of the islands and the island economy and for the high unemployment and for the continuous deterioration of the standard of living of Greek seafarers, and for the demanding and anachronistic public education, but also for the failure to control, Mr President, of unjustified increases in ships and for the safeguarding of seafarms and seafarms. Let me refer here to the recent case of a confirmed infringement and a fine imposed by the Competition Directorate-General on two ferry companies operating in my constituency, due to price formation, which would have been avoided, Minister, if the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy did its work and the planned controls and monitored prices, as it had to. We have pointed out many times also through parliamentary control to your Government, and in particular to you, Mr Plakkatakis, the problem of the lack of systematic and effective control of ticket prices by the competent services of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy to investigate indications of harmonised practice by shipowners, which leads to an excessive increase in fares prices and harms the social interest, as provided for in the current legislation. Unfortunately, however, there has been no substantial response to date. We, therefore, through parliamentary control, have pointed out the problem of distortions in the port tariff system by certain port agencies, as I say, for example, in the case of the port of Igoumenitsa, which lead to unjustified increases in ticket and service prices. We have proposed ways of making the respective invoices envisaged in a proportionate, fair, uniform and fully documented and transparent manner. Still no response from the Government and the Ministry of Shipping. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. In conclusion, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that sanctions, good and international contracts are good, but all these are tabula rasa if the Government and the Minister responsible do not at last understand the importance of this ministry's portfolio and do not go directly, documentedly and effectively to take substantial measures for shipping, for our islands, for our islands. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u45	In order to break the monotony a little, Mr Santorinios will now be given the floor as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, then Mr Scandalidis, then the representative of the New Democracy and of course we will close with the Minister. Mr Santorinier, before I give you the floor, I would like to make a statement to this House. I have the honour, therefore, to inform the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case on January 11, 2022, a criminal case for the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Here, Mr. Santorinier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will take advantage, as my colleague has said, of your presence here to see whether you will ever explain a few things to us. One important thing is that despite the fact that in the budget we have heard many millions of euros from you for shipping, shipping, ports and transport equivalents when we read the budget, we have seen little. And it is characteristic that, while you say it and indeed have been made, notices of 135 million for the shipping, last year in the budget you entered 70 million. So what's the result, Mr. Theochari? That they owe 60 million to the shipowners. So 70 million and 60 million, it makes us 130 million, what we miss. And this year they budgeted 50 million. So what, Minister? Will the shipowners be paid or will they be left with oil, especially the small ones, and we will not be on board? Because you're also talking about N.S.A. However, the NRP is not described in the budget because it is supposed to be described in the budget as well. The recovery fund also provides for 1 million for the study of the change in the fuel mix on ships. And that's not even registered in 2022. But things are even worse in transport equivalents, something that the islands experience every day. You have to pay since May and you will pay, as you say, at 15 for a couple of months from the rest of the EUPM 2020, because last year and this year you have registered 23 million. And this year, even worse, you also put the famous "NEARCHOS". That's where you put the 'NEARCHOS' at 23 million, when the transport equivalent wants more than 100 million. You're kidding the islanders and you're paying them with the rest of the EDP. And you don't answer, but you come here and make 'ten' reasons without telling us where to find the money, because the money doesn't show up in the budget. From there on, as has been said by other colleagues, you have told us that the disorganization of the work relations between seafarers is in the interest of shipping, because that is how we will attract more ships to the flag. Really, how many ships were drawn? How many ships were drawn to the flag by what you did, such as the fact that you effectively abolished the collective bargaining and collective agreements and went to the ITF contracts that are good for the Philippines, but not for the Greek seafarers? You've made the Greek seafarers equal to the Filipinos. That's what you've done! And you're celebrating about it! So what is the result? What is the result of the fact that you have essentially optimized even the composition of ships under Greek flag for senior officers? But since you are also Minister for Island Policy and today we have the pandemic, you know, Minister - and I think that this is something that should concern you, although it may not be your direct object, but are you the Minister for Island Policy - that Kos for the tenth day of EAFRD has not? For the thirteenth day today Kos has no EGE, so no rapid test can be done free of charge in these pandemic conditions. For months health has degraded throughout the islands. There's no pathologist in Kos. There's a nephrologist - Mr. Scandalides, it's your special homeland...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u47	Well now, Mr. Santorinier, don't make the Minister for Health the Minister for Maritime Affairs! We said, but have sinned!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I am a parliamentary representative and you will allow me to do so. So there is a nephrologist and the kidney patients are forced to go to Kalymnos to haemodialysis. That's what you've achieved. That's your island policy. You've ruined health on the islands. There are no pediatricians in hospitals, especially in these circumstances, especially in the conditions you open up schools, and we have these tragic results, because we have - we have ten thousand cases yesterday, which means that 'Omicon' advances within schools, advances to children too. No pediatricians, no hospitals! Congratulations! You've done a very good job in the health sector too! And because, Mr President, you said that we should not talk about health issues, uh, no, we will be talking about health issues. We are going to talk about health issues. We cannot comment on the fact that schools have been opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u49	Ask as a party and report, not today!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u50	We cannot comment on the fact, Mr President, that schools have been opened in the unique way of protocols across Europe '50%+1'. A 15-member is to be elected to each department to close when the highest number throughout Europe to close a section and to carry out checks is 'four'. You reach the "sixteen", at the same time as you concentrated, merged, six thousand segment mergings in all schools. With that logic, you obviously create panic and disperse panic - except pandemic - throughout the educational community. To close with this - and I would also like to hear the position of the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative - you are telling us that you have taken three hundred beds, three hundred beds from the private sector. Do you know that those who go to these beds should actually be champions, have nothing? They must have no heart, no symptoms and no private choice. And in addition to the list of shame of intubated out-of-clock equipment, we now have a list of the shame of patients who are in LPI and who are waiting for the private sector to give them the OK on whether they're going to beds we're already paying. These are the successes you have made - I am closing, Mr President - these are your successes. That is why we tell you that you are not only incompetent, but especially you are dangerous for both public health and the Greek people, and you must leave as quickly as possible! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u51	Because my friend, Nektarios, the "I am a Parliamentary representative", the parliamentary representatives are mainly the ones who must ensure that their parties comply with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u52	I have spoken for seven minutes, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u53	Mostly the Members of Parliament, and less the Members of Parliament. I now, if I wanted to make use of this article - starting with Mr Heta, of course - all right, we said, another minute, two more 'health questions' to the Minister present, who will have the time to answer, but, Minister, you have a parliamentary obligation beyond the conventions to answer all the questions that have been asked and not out of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u54	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u55	Here, Mr Scandalidis, you have the floor for five minutes, to close slowly, because we have a problem with the electronic voting system and we will go in the classic way. And for years.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u56	Be well! Thank you so much and a good year to everyone! Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment from any oil pollution between Greece, Israel and Cyprus, no one can disagree, and I would say that it is a very good thing, because there is a real problem that is both current and future with regard to issues relating to the environment and the possibility of surviving people in their areas, and we are therefore positive, and we are certainly also voting in favour for reasons of principle, but also because that is why the national interest is being imposed. But I am given the opportunity, beyond the very important content itself, to formulate a number of topical and wide-ranging considerations that the convention allows us, within two, three minutes. They are thoughts of the new power distributions undertaken in the South-East Mediterranean regions. It is not by chance either the attitude of the United States in terms of the pipeline or everything that is happening at this time throughout the arc that is rising, starting from Ukraine to Russia's downstream, across this arc, because a very important strategic game is being played for the new strategic arrangements that are evolving and at a time of implementation. I am saying this because what is being mentioned today in the Ukrainian problem, which is NATO's confrontation with Russia, on the issues related to cross-border issues, on the European orientation of the Western Balkans and on the integration of the whole region into the European Union, on what is related to the soft suburb of Russia, where Turkish populations have a direct relation to Ankara and the possibility of Turkey being a strategic ally for the West, is a policy that wants not to allow - these are issues that the Americans have already analysed since the 1990s - the return of Russia as a superpower, but as a regional force. And especially at this time when China has all this confrontation and polarization in sight of a new Cold War, it is evident that this is of particular importance for America. We must therefore say that Turkey, which is a critical strategic ally of the West, has a special role that America cannot easily negotiate in terms of its value and importance. So we need to be prepared for anything that has to do with individual decisions concerning events in the region. Greek-Turkish relations, Euro-Turkish relations must be seen in the light of these developments. There is, of course, in Greece a expressed foreign policy which finds it difficult to disagree between the parties, which is about attempting to form bilateral or multilateral partnerships in the context of a dynamic diplomacy. That's what we're doing and we're doing well so far. The question is whether we have exploited our strategic advantages for our own role and whether this negotiation is so effective for our geostrategic position and for our own interests. I, therefore, claim - I have told Parliament another time - that two Greek Prime Ministers' trips lately to America - one with Mr Tsipras and the other with Mr Mitsotakis - did not deliver the results that should have been achieved in a renegotiation of our position in the region in terms of our interests and our course. This is a criticism that is not made for reasons of opposition, but with the agony of a man who believes that the geostrategic upgrading of our country in this region is possible and has two huge clones. One is its return to the heart of European developments as a potential partner and not as a pig, and the second is that with the comparative advantages that we have negotiating with the West can enable us to strategically upgrade our position in the region. It's the country's target for the next ten years. In this context, then, I believe that the environment must begin - and I will repeat it - at national level, between the parties, between Parliament, everywhere for the new objectives of a national strategy at this stage, which are longer, more important than those which are at present at the forefront identified in the next few days, the next few months or the first few years. This is the critical era, we have our chance once again, we have our dangers raised by the threat. However, these should be given another priority in the public debate and in the dialogue within the national Parliament for the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u57	Good. We are now closing with Mr Boutsikakis, who will take the floor for five minutes, then Mr Theocharis will speak for seven minutes, and then the Minister will have ten minutes to do so, because he has to answer many questions. All right, you don't have to answer and everybody, let colleagues ask, so that you can come here and stay four hours and answer. Here you go, Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are being called upon to pass three bills concerning the ratification of international treaties. Because of the relative clarity my suggestion is common. Of course, I'll focus on one of the two sanctions. They concern, firstly, the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Tunisia on maritime transport, signed on 29 June 2020, secondly, the Memorandum of Understanding between the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport, signed in May 2017 and thirdly, the Agreement on the application between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Sub-regional Emergency Plan for Oil Pollution in accordance with the Protocol on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and in urgent cases for the control of Mediterranean pollution from the Barcelona Convention, signed on 8 May 2018. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] With the legislative integration of these agreements Greece further strengthens its international profile. The proposed bills illustrate the finding of the current economic and geopolitical context, that Greece is a border and a frontier for Europe and has a primary role as a pillar of stability in the region. Our country's critical geostrategic position must also be exploited. In the global maritime transport sector Greece is of key importance in terms of the safety and development of commercial activities, due to its particular geographical and geopolitical position, but also because of the first number of commercial fleets worldwide. The draft legislation, ladies and gentlemen, gives priority to the development of maritime transport in the wider Mediterranean region and the deepening of maritime cooperation with the coastal countries of North Africa. In summary, the purpose of the Agreement and the Memorandum shall be the cooperation of the Parties in the maritime sector, the facilitation of maritime trade, the provision of mutual facilitation to ships and seafarers, and the cooperation on the elimination of possible obstacles of maritime interest. The unobstructed access of the vessels of the Contracting Parties to international traffic under the free and unfair competition regime shall be regulated. Provision is made for the provision by the Contracting Parties of national treatment for the access and stay of ships to ports. The Parties shall treat each other in the same way as favoured States and at the same time undertake to refrain from taking restrictive measures preventing the participation of ships in maritime trade. It is further agreed to take all necessary measures to facilitate and speed up the maritime traffic in order to avoid delays in ships. Mutual facilities shall be provided to ships, cargoes and seafarers. In addition, the exchange of information, data and know-how between the Parties shall be promoted, cooperation in the fields of maritime education and training for staff, the possibility of any party to activities of maritime interest in the territory of the other Party. Finally, the Joint Technical Maritime Committee, composed of representatives of the maritime administrations of the two countries, is set up. We also have the agreement between Greece, Cyprus and Israel, which concerns the depollution of marine spaces between the three countries. The coverage of the project includes areas of responsibility of Greece, Cyprus, Israel within the Mediterranean Sea and is activated to deal with sea pollution incidents by ships, offshore platforms or oil exploration and exploration facilities, as well as oil pipelines. To sum up, ratification of the proposed drafts is essential because they fully serve our maritime interests and create a dynamic perspective for the creation of a multi-level collaborative framework. The strategic cooperation and the dynamics developed by our country in the sensitive Eastern Mediterranean marine area are also underpinned and the environmental consciousness of the parties is finally confirmed. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Butsikaki. I call on the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Theocharis. By the way, I would like to wish everyone and everyone present, but also those who are watching us, a good year, many years, always in health. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, too, would like to wish good years, health, strength, prosperity to all and everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in my view agreements are clear. In addition, some of them have been negotiated at a time before our own government and should therefore be supported by Parliament as a whole. I have to put aside the scrubbing in Mr Arseni's skull, for example. Fortunately, we have here the Minister for Maritime Affairs, who knows from triumphs, and it is a pleasant juncture. Mr Arsenis told us, for example, to stop mining, as if he were talking about Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, our country is causing all the problems on the planet or that it is not voting for the memorandum of cooperation for environmental protection in the event of an accident because it wants to protect the environment. I can't even understand where it starts and where that logic ends. With these agreements we have here - and I think it should be clear - it is strengthened, supported and facilitated by Greek shipping and also by Greek seafarers, by strengthening our country's position on the global maritime map. I would remind you: 53% of the European Union's fleet - it will correct me if the Minister has any new figures - 20.9% of the world's fleet. That doesn't happen randomly. It is thanks to the efforts of Greek shipping, Greek seafarers, shipping people and, of course, also with such agreements, which remove obstacles and strengthen the position of shipping on the global map. However, these agreements are also of strategic importance, and that is why I am pleased - if you like - to the thoughts and interventions of Mr Scandalidis, who is very experienced in them and in parliament, because, in fact, with these agreements, which are part of a wider strategy of a truly multilateral foreign policy in our country, a country that is in any region that is not a nomadic region, may not have a triumph, but our region certainly has no no no nomos and the moves that are being followed and to monitor at a multitude of what is happening, particularly with the neighbouring country. It is not by chance that the Foreign Minister's visits to Africa, the deepening of our relations with this region, are not random. We also see Turkey's active involvement in conflicts. Even in the Ethiopian conflict with Tigrai's army, we see that Turkish drones have also been placed there. So all this is being monitored by our country, it strengthens cooperation at the heart of the strategy, that is, defence cooperation - I am saddened when not all the parties from this House are voted on, as we had the previous period - but in any case these regional cooperation in areas such as shipping, tourism, culture and others, economic cooperation is what really binds and strengthens the position of our country as a whole. This dialogue is therefore important, it must be done, it must also be done in Parliament or in the relevant committees, and I think the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has a lot to show in this area. The President will also allow me to address two or three wider issues, mainly because the debate has gone well or badly in the past by previous speakers, by the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman and, more generally, by the SYRIZA. I would like to ask, in general terms, - and I think this is for the benefit of the Greek people - that we now have clear positions. Do we all have to say: do we want schools open or do we not want them open? Should the kids stay home? Will these twenty-five thousand cases stay home if the schools are closed or are released uncontrollably, which, thanks to the incremented protocol with which they opened, found? Is the natural space for the children there, in school with their classmates, with their teachers, or their natural space is being somewhere else? And what are we going to do with all the parents who suddenly after Christmas holidays - which, of course, all of us have some vacations to get - will be found one, two or three weeks with the kids at home? And what are they going to do with their jobs? So it's just fireworks on the SYRIZA side, like Mr. Friend told us that schools should stay closed a little longer. I think you should think about what you're proposing. The schools worked well in the first quarter, the protocol was very successful, it led to a reduction in dispersal and this is happening right now. According to you, in SYRIZA mostly, the world dies outside, either from starvation or because it doesn't find beds and the country is in a complete disaster. Is this the reality experienced by the average Greek? Can you believe it? Is this the way to excruciate your anxiety about the election of Mr. Androylakis, become even more screaming and even more disfellowshipped than the average Greek? Does this political strategy really help you? Are the cases stabilised or not? Is it a little less? With the opening of schools from last week closed, there are less cases. The situation is gradually stabilised, and this is because of the measures taken by the government. You can't afford it. And it is despite your voices, despite your objections, despite the confusion. Because the confusion that the average Greek has comes from this pluralism, which must finally be stopped. You're accusing us of the tests. There's been a test. Three hundred and thirty million have been given for free tests, 95 million self-tests have been given, 9 million pcr and rapid test has been done by the EGE. We are the first or, in any case, in the first countries, according to the ECDC, for Europe and we continue to support the businesses where we are taking measures. And, of course, we support businesses with funds of ECU 1.3 billion. The euro - because you have referred to the accuracy of the previous debate - is now expanding to professionals and, more generally, to businesses with another EUR 395 400 million. So the government has reflexes, corrects any issues and recognises that the situation is dynamic. It's not the same when you don't have a vaccine by having a vaccine. It's not the same when you get some pills later or anything else to deal with the situation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm closing up in a few words. I won't take a minute, Mr. President. I see that you have missed a great opportunity, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA, to finally take a clear place in your party - and here I will also lie KINAL in it - about the violence in the universities. Will you take a very specific place?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u61	We got her.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u62	Should the occupation end or not? Should the police come in and end the occupation? The cafeteria, which came out for the dean, will you finally condemn it? You didn't convict it. And we are waiting for a clear position, because this is where the speech and works masks fall. The NHS, the public health system, supported it by the New Democracy Government, with the most hired ones ever. The public university supports it when it is an open university, when we give the spaces back where they belong, the public spaces for students and society and not when we give it to the bullies, not when we give it to violence in amphitheatres. So I close with the promise made by our government and will be kept in full, that the accountants, the guilty of these incidents will be found and dealt with by the charges they have to face. We promise to all those who are victims of this kind of violence and we expect clear positions from all over Parliament. The same clear position should be in support of these agreements that we are voting on today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u63	We are also grateful to Mr Theocharis. And we are completing today's process with the speech of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Yiannis Plackatotakis, to whom we wish many years ago because he had his nominal holiday very few days ago. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by addressing the three contracts to be ratified and then replying to the issues raised by my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, the shipping of the Greeks is the best example of a creative, productive and extroverting Greece that gives the trigger for the armouring and strengthening of our country's position at economic, political and geostrategic levels. Today Greek shipping holds 20% of the world and 58% of the European fleet. The Greek-owned commercial fleet is ranked first in the world, with more than four thousand nineteen ships, while the shipping exchange in the tenth month of 2021 amounts to EUR 15,18 billion, not only in relation to 2020, but also in relation to the pre-COVID years, in 2019, 2018 and 2017. All of what do they show? They demonstrate that the dynamics of Greek shipping and the fact that we can by car create the right conditions for new synergies with other states in various sectors of economic activity is a reality. In particular, through the conclusion of bilateral maritime agreements with third States, legal security for maritime operators in the country is sought in full and over time, to facilitate the work of seafarers, as well as the best possible conditions of the Greek ship worldwide. For these reasons Greece has already signed the first shipping agreement with Japan since 1899, and has now made a wide grid of forty-two purely maritime agreements, which are imminent and are further expanding with the agreements currently being ratified, such as Tunisia, but with the United Arab Emirates Memorandum of Understanding. I will not go into detail about the content of the agreements. Our rapporteur and other colleagues have also referred to this. But you will allow me to focus on the geostrategic importance of the specific bilateral agreements which must also be seen in the light of the strategy of strengthening the bilateral policies and economic relations between Greece and the Mediterranean countries of North Africa and the Gulf countries in the field of maritime transport. With such strategic agreements, Greece's political and geostrategic role as a factor of stability and security in the wider Mediterranean region and the Middle East as well as a catalyst of the "Blue Development" in the wider region, with full respect for International Law, is significantly upgraded. In February 2021, we signed together with the appropriate ministers for forty two Member States from Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, members of the Intergovernmental Organisation for the Mediterranean, the second Ministerial Declaration on the 'Blue economy' in the coming five years by 2025, recognising future priorities in the sustainable 'Blue economy', but at the same time focusing on policy areas that will bring all Mediterranean states under a single strategy that will create value in terms of income, new jobs and commonly recommended for the protection of the marine environment. At a time when the pandemic, the regions of the Middle East and the Central and Eastern Mediterranean are at the heart of international interest, are now very much at the heart of this process. Relations between Greece and Europe and the Arab world have a new dimension and developments urgently require the strengthening of Greek-Arab ties at all levels: economic, political and security. Recently we also signed the joint defence agreement with the United Arab Emirates. In this context, the role of Greece is essentially bridging, as it is well known that the long historical relations between the Greek and Arab world, especially economic cooperation between Greece and the Arab states, are of particular importance. Given, of course, the geographical proximity of the Greeks and Arabs, the two worlds enjoy cultural familiarity and in the past this cultural familiarity had led to economic cooperation. That is exactly what we are revived and promoted, as geopolitical developments in the Middle East and also in the Mediterranean increase the strengthening of Greek-Arab relations as an integral part of our foreign policy, but also of the geopolitical security of Eurasia and North Africa. I would also like to remind you from the Step forward that we have had considerable successes in the field of maritime diplomacy in recent years. In December, we were able to conclude new important maritime agreements with Saudi Arabia, which we will shortly bring to Parliament and South Korea in terms of maritime education, while at the end there are two more important maritime agreements with Qatar and Kuwait. Also on December 14, we signed an emblematic memorandum of cooperation between the Greek and the American coastguards, one of the few respectively that both Greece and the United States have concluded. Finally - and this is particularly important - for the first time in the history of the international shipping organisation Greece was elected first to vote in category A of the International Maritime Organisation Council, where in the elections on 10 December 2021 we received fifty and fifty of the fifty-seven votes in total from its Member States. This first step confirms in the most emphatic way the confidence that our country enjoys from all the Member States of the IMO, as well as the excellent level of cooperation it maintains with all the countries of the world in the maritime sector. And the challenges, of course, will be many and important in the next few years and the purpose of our country is to strengthen and maintain the Agency's first-class office to regulate all issues relating to international shipping. Finally, the agreement between our country, Cyprus and Israel on the adoption and implementation of a sub-regional maritime pollution emergency plan is part of our country's cooperation with Cyprus and Israel on environmental protection issues. It is clear that ratification of this agreement will further improve the effectiveness of our country in dealing with a large-scale oil pollution incident, increasing the ability to manage such incidents through the possibility of coordinated and coordinated assistance at operational level by our other two partners. Already in the context of this cooperation, representatives from all three countries have been successfully and closely involved, and a third training seminar is planned in Israel for the autumn of 2022, and in 2022 the organisation of a genuine exercise to be carried out in the region of Cyprus in 2023 will also be prepared. Now, because many colleagues have raised the question of the implementation of the EastMed pipeline again, I would like to say that the development of the EastMed pipeline is obviously of interest to Greece, but this is a complex case which is very much dependent on developments in the global energy market. There is close cooperation with the Governments of Cyprus and Israel on this matter. With regard to the specific issues raised by my fellow Members, I will start by whether the competitiveness measures taken by the Government have resulted in the attraction of ships under the Greek flag. I would therefore like to inform you that the increase in Greek-flagged vessels that we approached in 2021 compared to 2020 has increased by 61%. As far as the equivalent of transport is concerned, the application of the equivalent transport has now been included as a measure to strengthen island status in the draft of an integrated strategy that we are implementing at the Ministry. Already the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Islands Policy promotes EUR 25 million in January following the adoption of the credit from the Public Investment Programme. On the passenger side, the beneficiaries will receive a total of EUR 12 million by the end of January for the movements of 2021. On the fuel side, for the forty-two islands implementing the measure, some EUR 4.1 million will be credited to residents and businesses, and, finally, for the three hundred and eighty island companies EUR 5 million will be released. The transport equivalent, ladies and gentlemen, is being improved, adapted to needs, and further programmes are being added in 2022, in cooperation with the Ministry of Development, especially for the islands and always in cooperation with the island chambers that are our critical partners. Finally, because you have also referred to the difference of views on the number of immigrants who have been rescued, it is surprising first of all that some are trying to create problems where there is no problem, not the government, in Greece they are trying to create a problem. And what's the reality? In my place I talked about a thousand four hundred research-rescue operations where twenty-nine thousand people were rescued. These were not only for immigrants but only for cases such as insolence, machining ships, swimmers who were at risk at sea, missing and a series of other incidents, with which you know very well that the Port Parliament is involved in its responsibility. And you know what? The protection of human life at risk at sea is not limited to immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, instead of self-criticising about what you have not done, you are now also critical. Those who practically dismantled the guarding of the sea borders - with the result that slaves literally make 'a party' in the Aegean Sea and have the entry of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants - blame us for effectively protecting the country's maritime borders, while saving thousands of human lives. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, for Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy, Greece has a maritime border and will continue to protect them with full respect for international law and with absolute priority in the protection of human life. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and all the legislation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy is adjourned and their vote will be taken separately. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u66	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u67	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u69	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u70	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u71	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u72	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Institutional Cooperation in Maritime Transport", was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u74	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u75	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u76	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u77	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u78	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u79	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u80	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u81	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u82	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u83	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u84	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u85	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u86	It is therefore accepted that the Court of First Instance should have its seat in the European Court of Justice, acting by a majority of its Members. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u88	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u90	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u91	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u92	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u93	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on institutional cooperation in maritime transport’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u94	We are entering the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: 'Under the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u96	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u97	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u98	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u99	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u100	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u101	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: ‘Undertaking of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u102	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u108	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u112	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u115	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u119	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u121	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u122	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy: ‘Decision of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia on maritime transport’ was accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, Articles and all of which are:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u123	We enter the resolution on the principle, articles and all of the draft law: "Furthermore, the Agreement on the Implementation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Subregional Need for Marine Pollution by Oil in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution by Ships and, in urgent cases of urgency, to combat Mediterranean Sea pollution by the Barcelona Convention". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u128	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u130	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "Furthermore, the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Subregional Need for Marine Pollution from Oil in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation in the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in urgent cases of urgency, to combat the Mediterranean Sea pollution of the Barcelona Convention", was accepted in principle by a majority. We shall now vote on the articles. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u136	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u137	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote of the President-in-Office. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u144	Therefore, a majority of the members of the Court of First Instance have been accepted by the Court of First Instance. We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u148	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u151	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy: ‘Following the Implementation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus and the Government of the State of Israel on the Subregional Need for Marine Pollution from Oil in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and, in urgent cases of urgency, to combat the Mediterranean Sea pollution of the Barcelona Convention’ has been accepted by a majority of uniform in principle, articles and total, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u153	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Friday 5 November 2021, Monday 8 November 2021, Wednesday 10 November 2021, Thursday 11 November 2021, Monday 15 November 2021, Tuesday 16 November 2021 and Wednesday 17 November 2021 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u154	Therefore the Minutes of Friday 5 November 2021, Monday 8 November 2021, Wednesday 10 November 2021, Thursday 11 November 2021, Monday 15 November 2021, Tuesday 16 November 2021 and Wednesday 17 November 2021 were ratified. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-12-S1-commons.u155	With the consent of the House at 12.35 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 13 January 2022, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work in accordance with the agenda distributed.
