ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 13-12022 authorisation, the minutes of the NC's sitting of Thursday, 13 January 2022, with regard to the vote on all draft laws, were ratified by the Bureau:]] 1. ‘Pressure of the Council of Europe Convention on Cinematographic Comparisons (Revised)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Following the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Ministry of Culture and Sport of the Hellenic Republic and the State Press, Publications, Radio, Cinema and Television Administration of the People's Republic of China on the "Travel translation and publication of works of the reason of the classical and contemporary bibliography of China and Greece". 3. ‘Preparation of the Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation and the avoidance of tax evasion in respect of income and capital taxes and the Protocol annexed thereto’. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP, B3' South Athens, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES [[Get the e-mail in.]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Tourism, Economics, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religion, Health and Culture and Sport and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled on 13-1-2022 a draft law: "Structuring the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of the Environment and Tourism of Mongolia for cooperation in the field of tourism". Also, the Ministers of Tourism, Economics, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religious Affairs, Health and Culture and the Deputy Minister of Finance tabled a draft law: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Tourism of the Hellenic Republic and the Office of the Prime Minister of Hungary for cooperation in the field of tourism". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on the topical and urgent debate on the topical and urgent subjects of major importance, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of the agenda on Monday 17 January 2022. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. O by No 290/10-1-2022 a timely question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mrs Athanasia (Syria) Readingstopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: ‘The Observatory silence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport (U.S.)’ in the case of censorship of the theatrical performance of Christoforos Zaralikos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, entitled "A programme of non-repayable advance for the earthquakes affected and deletion of the returnee who had received for the pandemic." 3. The 294/10-1-2022 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The devaluation of sports facilities at the National Youth Sports Centre (ESAKN) of Agios Kosmas". 4. The 285/10-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Place - The results of the epidemiological study are ignored for a year". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 291/10-1-2022 by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Finance, on "Without planning and consultation, the abolition of the DU Moschatos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 286/10-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Energy complex: necessary shield against the deaths of fumes and energy impoverishment". 3. Mr Andreas Michaelides, Member of the Radical Left, to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the subject: ‘Support for mastic growers and island producers in general’. 4. The 283/10-1-2022 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Health, on "Suspending operation of the Penteli Paediatric Hospital". 5. The 301/10-1-2022 topical question by the MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Aylonitis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The quarry function of Corfu". 6. The 287/10-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Urgent intervention for ancient Demas wall, Lager Fortification and Polikilos Mounts". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No. 288/10-1-2022, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilias Arseni to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The Government violates the European Court of Justice's rulings by dismissing cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance after 20 years of work." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Let clear answers and comparable actions be given to earthquakes from Arkalochori." Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs us that today the following topical questions will be discussed: H under number 289/10-1-2022, or number 293/10-1-2022, or number 297/10-1-2022, or number 292/10-1-2022, or number 295/10-1-2022, or number 298/10-1-2022, or number 284/10-1-2022, or number 303/10-1-2022, and number 299/10-1-2022. We begin the debate with the third with number 295/10-1-2022, a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct needs for school nurses". Mr. Lambroulis, good morning, good year. You have the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I return the wishes for a good year, a health, power and tolerance to all of us, but above all to our people. This question is the second one we have in a quarter and we are coming back to the issue of school nurses. We consider the question of school nurses, their presence in school units, a very serious, crucial issue, since it concerns the cases of pupils with severe illnesses, such as type 1 diabetes, epilepsies, allergies and other illnesses, which require personalised scientific monitoring and similar intervention, when and whenever necessary by a specialist, since it can, as is understood, pose a risk to health and, in particular, to the life of these children with chronic diseases. In the timely question we tabled in October, when this issue was discussed, namely to meet the needs of school nurses, the answer from the Ministry was that, until then, two thousand eighteen school nurses, university education, had been recruited. The coverage rate was 79% of applications for the previous school year, that is, last year's programming. Likewise in November, as far as we know, there were replacements, namely, hundreds of two people in two successive phases, fifty-four and forty-eight respectively. As a result, there are four hundred and thirty-four gaps in school nurses. the corresponding shortages of school nurses. In other words, students with severe illness remain completely uncovered in schools and are in the middle of the school year. Of course, as a result of this situation, of these deficiencies, as we have pointed out in the previous timely question, it is for parents to be exported at their own cost to deal with this serious issue of resolving the school nurse's presence in school for their children. So the questions, Mr President, are: What steps will the Government, the Ministry, take to fill these four hundred and thirty-four gaps in school nurses? And, of course, we are also proposing that there should finally be a school service with a permanent scientific capacity to cover health and health care needs, the needs of health services in general, and the medical needs of schools, for all pupils, not only for those with chronic illnesses, but for all pupils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Lambroulis. The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Mrs. Macrie, good morning. Happy birthday, good year, whatever you desire! You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Happy birthday to everyone! Mr Colleague, you will allow me to begin by pointing out that the figures which in your written question you refer to the recruitment of school nurses are not accurate. In my reply to the House, which you also referred to on 18-10-2021, I did indeed say that up to 4-10-2021 were recruited as a total of two thousand eighteen substitutes in the IT25 School Nurse and IE01 Special Assistant, with 79% coverage for the first and 68% for the second. And at another point in my speech I said that during this period and given that thirty-six alternates did not take up duty, according to the data from the OPSD, a thousand hundred and seventy-seven-nine substitutes of P25 School Nurse are employed in schools in the country. So the gaps left or left then were thirty and not five hundred thirty-six as you write. Then, on 8-11-2021, a special invitation covered seventy-six gaps in school nurses and on 22-11-2021, another forty-five were covered. An additional special call was issued on 8-12-2021 to cover operational gaps in training and special assistant staff in primary and secondary education. Of the hundred and fifty - three gaps in school nurses who were given to cover, they finally covered forty - nine. I must stress that there has been a lack of candidates since the first uptake phase of Special Assistant and Educational Staff members, with the most important shortage of attendance in the IT25 of School Nurses. In the first phase of recruitment, for example, there were ninety-two additional gaps in the P25 School Nursing Division and no candidates were found, Mr. Colleague. Likewise, in the second uptake phase there were thirty-five gaps, and again no candidates were found. In order to address this problem, on Monday, October 11, 2021, the amendment of the Ministry of Education, which henceforth provides the possibility of being recruited as temporary substitutes for general education in general education, listed in IASI ranking I of the IP8702 of Nursing, was voted on, provided that the operational needs of primary and secondary schools in school nursing schools in this sector cannot be covered by the members listed in Table C1 of the IASI of the industry concerned. The process of covering vacancies in primary and secondary schools, as well as in CEDEFOPs, shall also be redefined by means of a special invitation to uptake if the failure to meet the operational needs is found. Finally, with an amendment to Law 4876/2021, which was published on 23-12-2021, it is laid down that specifically for the school year 2021 - 2022, in cases of non-repaying of operational needs for P25 School Nurses and PE01 Special Assistant in primary and secondary schools, due to the exhaustion of candidates from the AACC tables, the regional training directors concerned may issue a local call for expressions of interest for recruitment of full-time or reduced-time substitutes, with regard to fixed-term private-law work by the end of the teaching year. I think that all this, Mr Colleague, does not seem to be an inferior governmental frugality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Makary. Mr. Lambroulis, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u7	I listened very carefully. You have presented a series of evidence, Minister. There may be some difference in the printing of data, because I will say the following: the question was tabled at the beginning of December. Of course, life goes on, there are developments. There have been legislative intervention here, as has been said by you. It is a question of how empty there are at the moment we are talking. Apparently you have the picture. Tell me in dentistry. Tell me a number. We have captured this figure on the basis of the information we have been able to collect and it relates, as in the timely question, to requests from the previous school year. Irrespective of this, right now, in the middle of the year, you have the image as a ministry how much gaps are. Of course, you may blame us for the wording of the 'government deficit', as we mentioned it, but how else do we call it when in the middle of the year there are gaps in this kind of huge need? And you all understand the importance of the school nurse being present especially in cases of children with these chronic conditions. About the same answer you gave to the first question, in October, as far as the shortcomings are concerned, that there is no mood, that there are no nurses, etc. Look, the key issue that actually leads to the not choosing nurses to take such positions? The substitute institution for which, of course, all governments have huge responsibilities over time. And we told you then - in the debate on this issue in October - that if permanent posts were called on by the needs and in the context of a planning, you would see that there would also be a response and a coverage of the gaps. We're sure of that. Where there is a proclamation of permanent positions to meet needs - the enormous needs that exist in all areas, either in education or in health, and goes by saying - there is of course a great interest and the interested parties deposit their cards to be hired. So you, as well as the previous governments - a timeless one, as I said, is the issue - are making this issue of substitutes with a due employment relationship, with short-term contracts and, of course, an uncertain future and no family planning for the worker. Secondly, we are in the middle of the year. All these issues had to be resolved in the mid-term, in the summer here, so that, when the new school year starts and at a level - if anything - teachers, teachers, teachers, etc., are all in place and cover gaps. I am passing away, there are still gaps in teachers at this time in the middle of the year. Similarly, school nurses should be cared for in order to cover all gaps. And that means a specific policy that meets the needs of the people. But what did you tell us in the timely question in October? Nor too little nor much did you tell us that this is a budgetary issue, it has a cost, because it is costing. Of course they do. The permanent ones are "exact" in relation to the alternates, and this is forbidden for the budgetary objectives that you serve, as did the previous governments. It is a cost, in other words, for people's families to have their children in school or teachers, and much more school nurses for such chronic diseases, which may - I stress that we do not say it out of exaggeration - cost children's lives as well, especially diseases such as diabetes mellitus, epilepsies and say. We would also like in your dentistry to say about the second question. Is it in the intentions of the Government, the Ministry of Education, to provide a permanent, scientific, helpful and useful service for all the staff needed to meet the health needs of all children and between them and children with chronic diseases? Therefore, deadlocks and problems are created by your own policies over time, whether you used to be governments or the next, but also to this day. It is therefore a political issue as a whole. These policies that want health and education to be undermined, but also to be seen as a cost to the state, will bring these results. We say that, at least on these issues, solutions should be found, Minister, and solutions should be launched through a design on all these issues concerning school nurses in this regard. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis, too. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, I do not blame you for the criticism you are making in the government. It's your right. But I also have an obligation - and I think I have done so with evidence - to answer how we have faced the existing problem of the lack of response for the sector you are asking us about. But you also made another point, namely that we do not hire permanent officials, permanent teachers, because it is the financial cost that scares us and stops us. So I'm going to answer that with evidence. To fill the gaps in school units this year we did 16,000, eighty-four permanent appointments to them, and we include four and a half thousand appointments made last year in Special Education - for the first time in educational years - in terms of other appointments after too many decades. So what you said is not true. They were also hired by Christmas...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u10	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u11	I have not interrupted you, Mr. Comrade. You're very experienced. I didn't interrupt you. I'm answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u12	You're ruining what I said, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u13	They had been hired by Christmas for over sixteen thousand, eighty - four permanent teachers. There were thirty-eight thousand seven hundred thirty-seven assistant teachers, among them - because you said that we are not sensitive to the special scientific staff needed, for the special assistant staff - five thousand six hundred eighty-six hundred members for all the programmes and structures that are necessary and able to work there. Most of these recruitments - because you said there are gaps - took place from 26-8-2021, much before the start of the school year. With the reopening of schools and because of the COVID pandemic, with a direct reflex and a rapid reaction from our Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs and Development, we proceed to four thousand seven hundred eighty-four new recruitments. The thousand two hundred and eight of them are currently serving, the five hundred sixty-six at the beginning of the next week and the next three thousand ten. They will, therefore, strengthen the human potential of education in the demanding juncture of the pandemic, meet the increased needs arising from the absence of teachers and related to the COVID pandemic. So you understand that the process of education is a dynamic, multifactorial process which we are sensitively and carefully approaching and covering gaps that are sometimes created due to pregnancy, sometimes due to illness, for which neither we nor the teachers can predict. In any case there is sensitivity...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u14	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u15	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u17	There's sensitivity, there's welfare...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u18	But he's not answering, Mr. President. The timely question has specific questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u19	That's what the Minister says. And ask again, you'll get the same answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u20	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u21	I want you to listen with care and respect, as I have heard. I don't want you judging me. You saw that I, too, avoided criticizing you, avoided telling you that your party is coming every one and two months with the same question with distorted evidence. I avoided saying all this. I'm trying to answer the substance. I think you have a genuine interest in what you're asking. I answer you as much documented as I can with numbers, elements and legislative initiatives and you want to interrupt me so as not to say them. In order to fill operational gaps in all the educational structures, which I told you were a dynamic and multifactorial process, the approvals for the recruitment of substitute school nurses are issued by the relevant Department of Special Education of our Ministry throughout the year. Operational gaps shall be collected by the competent decentralised agencies and allocated in accordance with the existing appropriations for programmes and ESDPs and regular budgets and recruitment shall be carried out. For the posts of the recruited, each training department shall be competent to prioritise its needs, to identify the gaps as referred to in the relevant regulatory decision for the alternates. Our intention - and we do so - is to cover all those declared and confirmed by the regional directorates for training operational gaps with permanent appointments or where this is not possible by recruiting substitute teachers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u22	We move on to the third debate under No 298/10-1-2022 on the second time question by MP Arcadias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Handing of teaching gaps in the face of pan-Hellenic examinations'. Mr. Papaliou, good morning, many years, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u23	Good day, Mr President, good morning to all my fellow Members, I wish you a good year, a health and a good day. The question we are discussing concerns the vacancy of a Professor of Economics at the General High School of Tropics, the Municipality of Gortynia, the Regional Unit of Arcadia since the start of the school year. This means that the pupils and students of the particular high school of the forgotten Arcadia, of the forgotten Gortynia, are not taught a pan-Hellenic lesson, that of the economy and even in the face of pan-Hellenic exams. Questions are raised about the need to cover the post, the particular support and treatment of students and students from the General High School and other high school students in the light of pan-Hellenic examinations, as well as to prevent such problems from happening next year and in the future. As soon as we were informed yesterday that in the sixth phase of the recruitment of alternates, a professor of economist was hired for the General High School, who, if I'm not mistaken, will take office Monday. This does not alter the substance of the question concerning the staffing of the schools in the Greek region, particularly those in remote atrocities, difficult to reach and disadvantaged areas, in the case of Gortynia and the need to fill the teaching gaps for students, especially the third grade because of the pan-Hellenic examinations. Teaching gaps and the loss of teaching hours, and for a whole four months, for example for this general school, cannot be replaced, after almost four months have passed since the beginning of the school year. Every gap in any school in the country is a negative element, it is a negative development for the educational structure, the educational process and the educational system and must be covered. However, the gaps in school units in remote, difficult and disadvantaged areas highlight the even greater problems that exist in them, and greatly strengthen negative educational development. The Municipality of Gortini of the Regional Unit of Arcadia is the most remote from the municipality in relation to Tripoli, the capital of regional unity, the most barren problematic municipality in Arcadia. This is mostly about the bottom of Gortynia. Let's note that this year, Minister, you've closed down the Kontovazana High School. We have asked you a question, which has been answered without taking into account and without mentioning the regional dimension of the problem. Tropical High School is the only one in Lower Gortini. It covers the villages of the former Municipalities of Tropia, Kontovazana and part of Hera. In other words, they do not only study students living in Tropia, they also attend schoolchildren living in the villages of all of Gortynia. I would even like to make two references before I complete the difficulties these children face. Movement is extremely difficult. The distances from the whole villages in Troya, apart from the kilometres, which are large, are linked to the time of travel, transition and return since the road is bad. Weather conditions in winter are burdening the road network and therefore the time to travel. So the students are forced to wake up from the ravine and start their journey from their villages to the Tropia, a route through difficult streets until they reach school. Finally, for the purpose of attending courses, which for other students in the urban centres and in other areas are self-evident, they are forced, as long as they have the economic potential, to move to neighbouring towns, Tripoli or tower, which are one to two hours away from their villages. Therefore, the difficulty of accessing a city and gaps in educational staff coming up each year force several students and their families to leave their area and, of course, their school. In conclusion, I say that staffing with teachers and teachers for a pan-Hellenic course should be carried out on a timely basis so that there are no gaps which are, in many cases, materially unsupplemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Papaliou. And this question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zoe (Zetta) Makri. Here, Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not abuse your kindness and tolerance. I shall refer only to the issues on which my colleague asks me. It is my constant practice to respect questions, not to think that it is an opportunity to develop and unfold the whole of government's education policy, because I believe that I am weakening the questions that I regard as a preamble and all serious. But I will repeat with your permission, Mr President, issues that I have raised in my previous reply, because I believe that every fellow Member is entitled to have a separate answer and not a reference to what I had said before. So I tell you, Mr President, that the process of filling out the functional gaps of all education structures is dynamic, multifactorial and a difficult process. Operational gaps shall be collected by the competent decentralised agencies, then allocated in accordance with the existing appropriations of the ESDP and the regular budget and recruitment shall be carried out. In order to place recruits, it is noted that each Education Department is competent to prioritise its needs, to identify the gaps. Besides, it defines it, states it and rules it for alternates. Your question in the final decision to recruit alternates with a communication date 10-1-22 is included - you said it too - intake of a substitute branch of IP80 Economics and is expected to be presented to the Department of Secondary Education in Arcadia to take up service today Friday or no later than Monday 17-1-22. So the problem you ask is resolved. However, I will also tell you, for your fullest information, that the Arcadia Secondary Education Department was appointed in the current school year fifty-four teachers of which two were of the IT80 Economic Specialty and seventy-five alternate teachers of various branches and secondary specialities have been recruited. In order to cover this void you ask the General School of Tropical High School, she was recruited on 11-11-21, but she was licensed, as she is entitled to, and I think you will not object to her license, because she was the license for threatened pregnancy. So he didn't show up. In your second question, concerning the coverage of the gaps created by the non-education of the economic courses at this school, the procedure laid down in paragraphs 8 and 9 of Article 1 of Protocol 79942 of the Ministerial Decision adopted on 21-5-19 will be followed with the support of the relevant coordinator of educational work. The subject of the decision is registrations, translations, studies and the organisation of school life in secondary school schools. In particular, the director or director convenes the school board, recommends to the club the way in which the hours lost and the completion of the taught material are replaced and the club decides on it. The decision of the Association of Teachers shall be submitted to the Director of Secondary Education for information. I will say once again that our Ministry's constant intention is to cover all the declared and confirmed ones, from the Regional Education Departments, operational gaps with permanent appointments or when this is not possible, with the recruitment of assistant teachers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Makary. Mr. Papaliou, you have three minutes for your dentistry. Please be consistent. I left you the first time to develop all the problems faced by students and correctly. Now you're confined to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u27	I think I described the context in which...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u28	Yes, of course. That's why I left you more time. It's hard that in 2021 I can't imagine leaving school children!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u29	Perhaps some, not the Secretary of State, because it is also a MP province, but some cannot understand the difficulties faced by the children of the Greek region.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u31	Minister, you had assured at the beginning of the school year and months later that the vacancies of teachers at all levels of education, which were many, would be covered. Unfortunately, the economist's position, as you said yourself, has not been covered by an intake that is now being done, while it has been hired when? Eleventh month. My information is for the twelfth, but it doesn't matter. It is already three months since the beginning of the school year where the post was empty. Therefore, there is a loss of teaching hours for the children of that particular high school. I suppose that's what's happening, so I made a general reference to the students and students of the Greek region in general. So the gap that is being covered today does not solve the problem. And it is not solved because it can only be replaced by a specific mechanism. This is what I support at least, and this is what the Parents' Association of this General High School, as well as teachers, say that for all-Greek examinations, children of this particular high school and other high school having similar problems, through a mechanism to be set at a starting point similar to or similar to those of the other candidates for the universal examinations. That would be a solution, at least for this year, so that the gaps do not appear. The state's obligation is that, at the beginning of the school year, there should be no gaps, that the process should be started in time and that it should be completed in good time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And let us not forget - and I say this again and I think it matters - that the gap between urban centres and the region is a given one. The children of the region, particularly in the difficult and minority regions, are unfortunately being seen and treated as children of a lower God. There is no equivalency, in this case. Let us not let them follow the fate of their parents, let them not remain unreliable and unreliable, have dreams and prospects for a better life. Of course, in this case, I will make a reference to what the Prime Minister said about children in degraded areas of urban centres. He said that inequality was considered self-evident and a kind of natural phenomenon and, of course, an unsupplementable social phenomenon. This is your policy, unfortunately, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u32	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u33	I shall conclude, Mr President. In view of the pan-Hellenic examinations, these children do not exist on an equal footing and therefore iso-Russia. I think we should all put the burden on education in the Greek region. And one last thing. There are already, Minister, gaps in Arcadia Prefecture. And Tejea's Single Professional High School has many gaps in qualified personnel. And, if possible, a special school doesn't have a psychologist. I am saying this in addition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. In the additional findings, Mr Colleague, you can come to the Ministry to discuss this and have the full information, because when I reply to written questions in the House, I have the information that has been requested by the written question. In addition, I am avoiding them, because I am going to do justice to the government's work. I would like to say to you, because you have invoked my status as a MP province, that, yes, I am a MP province. It doesn't mean I have more sensitivity than the centre's MPs. I'm aware of the problems. I don't see the children of my region as children of lower God, because they are the same children who take the lead in the pan-Hellenic exams and make us proud. But I have a duty - and I will do so with the tolerance of the Bureau - to say again, because you have referred to the Prime Minister for whom you were implied or clearly stated that he accepts inequality as a natural phenomenon, that the government of this Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, and our Ministry, therefore, covered the gaps in school units with sixteen thousand and fourty-four appointments. The four and a half thousand, ladies and gentlemen, were teachers of special education for the first time in education. The rest of us first in decades. I have said so many times in the Chamber, and I have said so a moment ago, and I will repeat it at every opportunity, to contradict claims like yours. In addition to the permanent appointments, thirty-eight thousand seven hundred thirty-seven assistant teachers were recruited until Christmas, among them five thousand six hundred eighty members of special scientific and special assistant staff. And most of the recruitments took place from 26-8-2021, that is, long before the start of the school year. With regard to our movements now because of the pandemic, in cooperation with the co-legislative ministries of finance, in the interior and development - here is the Minister - we are moving directly to four thousand seven hundred and eighty-four new recruits of alternates. Of these, a thousand two hundred eight today take office, the five hundred sixty - six at the beginning of next week, and very soon the remaining three thousand ten. These were not easy things or selfish things. There have been rapid reflexes on the part of our Ministry and excellent cooperation with the relevant ministries, which I have just mentioned. All these teachers will strengthen the human resources of education. The pandemic situation is challenging. They will meet the increased needs arising from the absence of teachers associated with the coronary pandemic. And finally, let us recognize and admit that there was from the side of our ministry planning, preparedness, synergies. The educational community together helped us and schools continue their valuable educational work, contribute to the prevention and treatment of pandemic, teach our children, who are in no way inferior, different or other God. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you too for keeping time. You're always consistent. Have a good day to both of you. We move on to the first with number 293/10-1-2022, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, from the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Direct reinstatement of the KYA (FO V 5138 of 12-11-2021) for the sale of hairdressing products". Mr. Bored, good morning. Happy New Year and Years. Whatever you wish. I want you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u37	Happy birthday. Have a good year. Minister, there is a turbulence in the barber and hairdressing shops, which is due to more general reasons why I could go further, but in this case it is related to a governmental old age. You had taken out a KHS with which you rightly stated that shops, supermarkets, minimarkets, hairdressers, barbers, etc. are forbidden to sell products such as what I mentioned previously to you to non-professional hairdressers and barbers. So after you took off this KHS, you come back in a week - I don't know how much later - and you get one saying that this ban only applies to the sale of more than two pieces per code and per customer and actually canceled the purpose of the previous KHS. The question, Minister, is why you did this. Did you think so? If you were pressed, I say that there is a safe road to avoid pressure and that is simply the fact that it is a European directive. It is a European directive and it must be implemented. In other words, you should bear in mind that before you issue the second GNSS. Apart from that, Minister, as you know, this sector suffered overwhelming attacks during the quarantine, which had not even been accepted during the economic crisis. There is a general deregulation, a few solvent phenomena - you know them very well - and a swelling, let's say it, of the para-economy. Normally now we should be discussing what can be done to deal with these problems rather than a specific one, as I described it before, of old age today. You keep in mind how big the problems in the industry are. You have information on what I have tried to describe earlier, and that is what we should be discussing despite this. I hope, on the occasion of the question, that you will make up for it and that there will be no problem in this respect and that we may discuss the rest in my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u38	The Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis, will answer. Mr. Georgiade, good morning, good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u39	First of all, a good year for all colleagues. I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Monument on the tragic loss of her brother in this shocking traffic that took place late last night. Mr Colleagues, you tell me in your prology that there is a European directive that we do not apply for some reason. I ask you: If there is really such a European directive that we do not apply, five years of government SYRIZA, why has this directive not been implemented? I'm trying to explain that there is no directive that you're talking about. On the contrary, there is the European Free Trade Regulation that explicitly prohibits us from placing restrictions on the movement of products. The only way to introduce a state of restrictions on the marketing of products is if it proves that some of these products may pose risks to public health. In all other cases the placing of restrictions on their trade is a reason to refer the country to the European Court of Justice. It is, therefore, precisely because of this European regulation, while the hairdressing and barber industry has been a consistent and lasting demand for a decade in all governments from 2010 to 2020, to introduce such restrictions - I imagine that both previous political leaders and SYRIZA and Samara - Venizelos and Papandreou have examined it, because when they come to your office and put it in a reasonable way - you are sending it to the service and there is an opinion from the Competition Committee in question, you are automatically receiving a total ban, not just - look at - breach of the European directive, but that is to say, a law that is fully applicable to national law. The rules of the free market within the European Union, you will now understand it, are perhaps the most important laws that the European Union has. So it is legally impossible and if we did so, we would have the country pay fines to the European Court of Justice. And, of course, the companies that would be harmed could go to any court in the country and cancel our relevant legislative initiative to introduce restrictions on the movement of products. On the contrary, what did we do? I recognise that there is a problem and I will explain our further initiatives in my denology. We have used the COVID, that is, the exception granted by the European Union because of the pandemic, to apply limited forms of traffic barriers. I have explained dozens of times to the club, the link and the bandit federation that these restrictions will necessarily be lifted with the end of COVID, because they cannot remain, as they violate the European regulation. Most in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Bored, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u41	Minister, first of all, when SYRIZA was not ruling, thankfully there was no pandemic. There is a European regulation. It is of health interest that products. There is a European regulation which says that it must be mentioned on 'for professional reasons' and applied to professionals. So there is, not that there is no. There's a regulation. And obviously, the pandemic that was so deadly, that it disorganised lives, of course, and it is another reason for health-care products to be subject to certain restrictions. I referred before, Minister, to the enormous problems facing the industry. Most barbers and hairdressers took at first stage 800 euros, but then their overwhelming majority could not even get in, because there were some prerequisites that the vast majority of barbers and hairdressers did not meet. There were no people who would be busy over there. Moreover, you know that the vast majority are self-employed, how to say it? A barber, a hairdresser in most cases. During the pandemic, visitability was dramatically reduced. And besides, there has been a phenomenon that leads to a certain trend, so let us say it, solvents for the industry. You're going to tell me what could be done about this. I say that more could be added to the aid programmes beyond the first phase, and from there on there there is a field to avoid becoming the uncontrolled sector of activity, of the coastal economy. You know that very well. In fact, I have seen some evidence you have available to the Ministry that I too have given a huge impression. We are a country, as you insist on all the tons, European and there must be a framework, to defend this sector and those who work in this sector because if they come out of unemployment, the problems will be intensified, especially in the region from which I come, in this case, the social fabric will be completely erupted once again after the crisis. And where do we finally get there?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u43	I think we have now reached agreement on the second reading, because you say that there was no COVID. So you realise that in the pre-COVID period and in the post-COVID period, the European regulation explicitly prohibits the creation of any obstacles. The entry 'for professional use' does not mean that we can prevent its circulation to non-professionals. What the regulation says is that the only way to put an obstacle is to prove that this product can cause serious harm to public health. No other way! Mr. Barry, I don't blame you, and I didn't know them that well. I want to be honest with the paints, and I didn't have a special personal opinion. I didn't know. When we made our first decision to ban the sale of these products "for professional use" as we were told to do, it was immediately found that not only tens of thousands, but hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who bought these products "for professional use", but who use them in their own homes themselves, lost access to the market of these products and we returned with a second KHS that we said can buy up to two pieces, just so that it can be proven that the person who buys them is not a professional who works black to say it simply, but is the lady or gentleman who wants to get the paint that actually states "for professional use" but is used by him in his own home.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u44	Minister, not all the paints...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u45	Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u46	I repeat: Of all products you see in supermarkets or shops and list "for professional use", 99% of them are also used for non-professional use, which is why they do not allow restrictions. I've explained it, we've given the regulations, they've gone to the General Secretariat of Consumers, they've been explained by the agency and they're insisting. What can we do, however, about the substance of the black work that this really affects this sector? You said something that doesn't apply. You said they couldn't get in because they didn't have a job. Except in advance I, all the subsequent ones had not necessarily had to have even one employee, you simply took less money, because the unit of work increased the money you received with the algorithm. What should you have? You had to have 20% dropping, and of course if you had more employees, you would get more money, because the purpose of the returnee was to keep jobs. So if you only had yourself, if you were a self-employed person, you would only get money for yourself. If you had ten employees, you'd get ten employees. That was the logic of the measure. But if you had less than 20% turnover and self-employed to be, you'd go back to the advance. We will prepare a provision - perhaps even in plenary, in the debate on competition law that we have next week, if we have time to do so, because I would very much like to do so - where the Secretariat-General of Consumers and Trade will be given the opportunity to check and fine through social media and those who do so on social media. and advertise "Look what's nice to do with it. I'm going home too." But if we look for the one who's uploading it or the lady who advertises her house, she's got an ABM professional, she's cutting evidence, pays tax, we find that there's no one. It is not just a matter of tax revenues lost by the state, which is also a matter of concern to us. I am more concerned with the unfair competition created by those who go to my homes, work black, and so they can have less costly, get less money than those who provide them with the service and thus unfairly compete with others who have built shops and have a lot of costs. I believe that when this provision comes to the vote on the other parties too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Houses and receipts? I don't think this is happening to anything. We move on to the next one, which is the second one with number 297/10-1-2022, a topical question from the President of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Incentives through Development Law, Recovery Fund, ESDP etc. for the stay of businesses in earthquake areas, as well as for the installation of young people." Mr. Kegeroglu, good morning. Years long, good year, whatever you wish. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u48	Good morning and a good year! Minister, as you know, the area of the Municipalities Minoa Fields and Archanna Asterousias, as well as parts of the neighbouring municipalities of Heraklion, have effectively kneeled economic and socially because of the earthquakes that have affected the wider area. There was and there is a need for a comprehensive reconstruction plan, because the individual initiatives of the institutions and the ministries have not yet been implemented. We therefore need to see the whole thing. In the case of enterprises, for example, it is not enough to restore any damage suffered by buildings or even equipment, since the economic activity has been transferred, ‘transfer’ because the companies are not working, cannot be relocated, cannot be immediately relocated. There is a more general climate, that is, leaving business and avoiding, if you want, the establishment of businesses in the region. And it is an area that has been in existence for many years, for decades, a business centre. So I come with this question to raise specific issues to you, because there are others that concern the Ministry of Finance, such as the restoration of the injustice which, while in the firefighting areas it was very well decided by the government not to repay the repayable advance for the undertakings that have taken it, earthquake areas and earthquakes, this is not the case. That's an injustice. However, this is a question concerning the Minister for Finance. As far as your competence is concerned, you should consider whether you can do so through the NRP development law and programmes you manage, give support, help in these operations, in order to stand on their feet. In particular, for companies that have already joined the development law and see that the economic activity of the region does not help them and is in the question ‘to continue or not continue’, a higher percentage of aid could be granted. Furthermore, in view of the new development law, we should consider whether there is a reinforced moleculosis and a reinforced subsidy rate, in order for businesses to settle in the region, to remain, to act and thus to help with economic reconstruction and to restore the major damage caused by the earthquake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. And this question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. I would like to say first of all that in the next few days in this House, as you know, we have the start of the debate on the new development law. So what we are saying here today may also be carried out within the framework of the new development law to see whether, in fact, something can be done. I must, however, give some initial answers to the people who are listening to us, so that we do not create expectations that do not exist. The new Regional Aid Map, valid for the period 2022-2027, was published three days ago by the European Commission. The map does not change, as you know, nor can it change during the current period. So by 2027 the map is that. Now, as far as Crete is concerned - because I imagine you have the same interest in Arkalochori as the question starts - I am sure you know that the new Regional Aid Charter has a very large increase in the subsidy. Crete is one of the most advantageous. It has a 10% increase in the subsidy in place with the previous map. So some ways and Arkalochori can have much better behavior than before. Obviously, the new map does not apply to those who have joined the previous map. This applies to those who make the applications from now on in the new circle which will be announced on the basis of the new map, I imagine somewhere in the beginning of March. We have to vote for the law first and then design the new circle. The government has already created several programmes. To give an example, now "run" is running, which we are financing with the NRP and the Recovery Fund through our Ministry of the Environment and Ours. We have foreseen that 5% more available resources should be available for those areas which have been particularly affected. We are talking about liberation and the fire-fighting areas in the summer. It's not the earthquakes in it. That would be a wish. It could be in the next cycle of "EXOXOCOMOTO" that earthquakes enter. Degreeisation and fired areas in the summer have been invaded. In any case, if you have some proposals that are consistent with European law, we at the Ministry of Development are extremely open to discuss them in the framework of the law I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I think you fully understand the role that development law can play, but also every programme, in the reconstruction of the region. There is a need for this particular treatment to be given to the limits of the authorised area and the European framework, in order not to weaken and not to kill the region. I sincerely tell you from my own experience and autopsy, if you like, that even cafés cannot function and 'transfer' - I have many examples - both in the city and in other areas, let alone other activities that require more capital and more conditions. So I would say that what you said is positive, that not only could it be possible, but that the possibility of 5% - for example for the NRP - has to be considered for the EVO and the Recovery Fund - is to be 5% for the affected areas. Liberation, firefighting, right so far there is. In earthquakes, there isn't any. Just the same thing is for the returnee. So to the returnee, we have passed a law to ensure that the operations that have been affected in the fire-fighting areas do not return it. Earthquakes are excluded. We'll have to see about earthquake-stricken business. It does not make any difference to what cause a business has been destroyed. So in development law, for the existing law that the companies have joined: They have taken the decision, but now that they are going to invest, the situation they see and the low percentage that applies to the region - that was, rather, for years, right, you said it was changing with the new map - it is before the dilemma to move on or not move on to investment. So I would say that, once a new map is in force, companies that have already joined and are in the initial phase under the previous law can be transferred - by means of, obviously, of a regulation that should be provided for in the new law - in the context of financing the new European Regional Aid Charter, in order to obtain the greatest aid, as is now foreseen. And on the issue of mobilisation for integration into development law - not the rate of aid that is an issue, we are discussing it - it is a matter and a national one. The European framework does not define the priority that productive activities, for example (a, (b) category and, in particular, in these areas, may have a mobilisation in terms of integration. So there are tools that you can use - and that is what I ask you to do - in order for economic activity in the region to remain and for new investments to be attracted due to the need for economic and social reconstruction in the area affected by the earthquake. I think that all the things I have said and asked you to do are within the European context and do not go beyond it in any way. It is, however, a question that we need to discuss - you are right - in the process of development law. But I would like your will to be expressed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u54	It is a concern to find solutions within a European framework. Just to explain a little what's going on about what you said technically. If an enterprise or more correctly, if an investment project has been incorporated into the development law, it has taken a decision to integrate it and it has not done any expenditure - I stress, it has not even spent 1 euro, it has not started - it can respond with the entrepreneur's will, to apply for an award, to apply for the new cycle - that is today - and to go beyond the new one. I would stress, however, that 1 euro has not been spent. Because if even 1 euro has been spent under the European regulation, then it cannot be reintroduced into a subsequent development law. This has nothing to do with national legislation, it is European legislation and it does not go beyond, it is the sacred diaspora of state aid. I'm just saying it so your fellow citizens can hear it there. If they have not done expenditure, they can apply for the award and wait to enter the new map with the highest subsidy. But if they've done expenditure, they're going with the old map. With regard to all the rest you have said, I repeat that I am very willing in a next cycle to include earthquake-stricken areas in the same context as firefighters and liberation, I consider this fair. We didn't do it badly, it wasn't predicted. But there's gonna be a next circle anyway. Of course, we can discuss in the context of the development law what we could legally do more. However, I must tell you that especially the Ministry of Development and the Directorate-General for Research and Technology - you are certainly aware of it by your fellow citizens in Arkalochori - we have been in Arkalochori since the first time, with our entire team, since July, and we have remained until today in the presence of our own engineers and scientists, because we want to help this region regenerate as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm not telling you any better all the time, because we'll see you again, you have another question later. We move to the fourth question with number 289/10-1-2022 in the second question of the First Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "The deadlock of the implementation of approved investments that small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers face from the refusal to lend banks and the significant increase in the cost of investment from the serious revaluations of equipment and raw materials is continuing." Mr. Constantinople, good morning, many years, good year, whatever you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u56	Happy New Year to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u57	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u58	Minister, before entering the question, which you know why we had it two months ago, I would like to tell you that it is very important that the government has heard our proposal to make multiple points for rapid test. Secondly, I would like to say that you cannot legislate on different terms. Otherwise, legislate for Evia, which is firefighting, and otherwise for Arcadia and Gortynia, which are also firefighting. It is completely wrong to have different ways of dealing with two areas within the country. But I move on to the example. We had spoken, Minister, three months ago. There's a man - and it's not just one, it's hundreds - who's filed his file. He's a young man with his family living in a mountainous area, there go the school kids and all that. He's getting a 100% grant to build a cheese house. He goes to the bank and they say to him: "Are you leaving?" "I emigrate", he says, "of the EUR 110,000, I have the whole and I have the manufacturer to fix it for me". The bank goes to him and says, "My lord, to do this, I want you to bring 20% beyond the same participation." They want to have some money committed to his account. In other words, he is asked for 88 000 euros, that is 44% of the investment will give it to them and give them 110,000 euros. You know what's going on with the energy, materials, and all that. This man is not only one, Dimitris Muroutis who lives in Kontovazana. Mouroutes can be all over Greece and we want to support them to stay in their place to keep the area alive. That is why these programmes also exist. Because it wouldn't be worth it or there would be these programs. I'm telling you, three months after we met, we sent the files to the bank. There was no - it says - a project from the Ministry of Development. I want to tell you that we all, the state, the government, all of us see us together in the House. They say "Okay, good, the government didn't do it. You said it yourself." But will you, in the government, let this man leave his territory? What are we gonna do? Will there be actions that will be able to support through this process, so that the bank can give him the money to build a cheese factory, give new jobs, raise his children and stay in Contovazana and every Contovazana? Because it's not just the Contovazana. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. And this question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u60	We have had demand today, Mr President! I apologise for that. I read the first part of your question, Mr Colleague: 'How will banks be forced immediately to help investors obtain the necessary funds?' And so forth and so forth.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u61	In quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u62	I want you to tell Mr. Mourouti - if he has anything to do with my friend George Mouroutis, even more. As you can see in me last name Mouroutis is extremely pleasant and beloved, in any case - that in the European Union governments cannot oblige the banks to do anything. The banks are completely independent, they have supervisory authorities independent of the governments, and if a government said "I will oblige the banks to do something", automatically the whole system stops working. So you obviously mean what kind of motivation, what kind of tools and what kind of policy we can use. So I say to you that, as far as the Ministry of Development is concerned, there are also tools prepared by the Ministry of Rural Development. The Ministry of Rural Development has prepared the Agricultural Development Guarantee Fund with the European Investment Fund, with a contribution of EUR 80 million, which is already set up and will provide loans from 10,000 to 5 million to farmers and processors, with very low and in many cases zero guarantees. But that is from the Rural Development Guarantee Fund. As far as the Greek Development Bank, which we are handling at the Ministry of Development, is concerned, we have a series of tools that are already 'current', guaranteeing small businesses with 80% guarantee for loans up to 200,000 euros, guaranteeing large companies that we give up to 20% of the turnover and with a limit of up to 5 million euros or even 10 million euros. We have now built new tools that are mentioned in audiovisual media, if anyone has taken a development law for this kind of business, can come to get the loan from us with 80% guarantee, and if we need to build further - I repeat that, in part, we can finance it, because there is the Ministry of Rural Development - we can also build additional tools. We are extremely willing to encourage the banks to do this work. And let me say one last thing. This government is helping the banking system. The banking system, Mr President, has a government of Mitsotakis which reduces its red loans in two-thirds, and this continues with a very large number. Two banks have already been recapitalised and we have provided through the Greek banking institutions and the Greek Development Bank's money and the guaranteed loans, but now also the money from the Recovery Fund. So banks are powerful, stronger than ever and with very large liquidity. You add to this the very low interest rates with which the country is borrowing and so the banks. So they have liquidity banks to strengthen the economy. And I will say something that I said next time: when we adopt development law and subsidies, the banks have no real reason, except if they consider the creditor to be extremely poor, they will not give him the loan. Because the money we give is absolutely and 100% secure. But in addition, we also build security tools from the Greek Development Bank, to make it even easier for the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, here you have the floor, and you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u64	I, Minister, would like to tell you the truth, because you are a practical man, a businessman, I would like to ask you this. If you were going to a man today and told him "I have this problem" what would you expect to answer? I have come to tell you "we have this problem". You are absolutely right, it was wrong to 'obligate', to understand and be in the same language. We're not talking about it. I didn't understand what that man would do? He's going to make a new schedule? I say to you that this man is in the Peloponnese Region, the main sector SAR 10.51 ‘Dairy and cheesehouses’, which are costly 201.195. I'm telling you, he's going to the bank and he doesn't take it. What's he gonna do? I say this to you: If you treat this either as an example through the Development Bank, through an in any case model that can work with aid, giving them incentives, giving them further guarantees, the Development Bank or anything else, will be a model for all businesses. I'm telling you there's no bank to give them money. I'm saying again, I've got a call to see it. Because we cannot, as you can see, force them, because they're not our money, that's the truth. It's not good, that's how the system works. But that is why, we say, it is the state, so that it can work at the same time, because it has supported them by the banks, they will use money from the Recovery Fund - through the banks they will go and they will do well - and they need to find tools for the small and medium-sized enterprises. So I ask you something very simple, Minister, and I think, if you solve this, if we find a way to solve it, it will be a model toward the whole world and to see that the world stays in the region. What does that man do? Go to the Development Bank and find a way, a tool, when he's not alone, but are five hundred, six hundred, a thousand? I want to show you that when they heard my first question - and I can get you the evidence - 20 people sent me a message from all over Greece that has the same problem. So I ask you and come after two months - I will come - to tell me how we can really help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u66	I tried to explain it, but I will say it again: if Mr. Mouroutis - I say the example you mentioned to me - has no involvement in the past with the banking system that makes him a non-bank borrower, I mean a involvement with TIERIA, to say it very simply, he has two cases: One is he could get a loan on his own anyway. Apparently, if they don't give him, he can't get it. The second road is to ask to take - which can do - a small entrepreneurship loan, in which it will secure the subsidy already approved to it, which you said is EUR 200,000. Small entrepreneurial loans from the Greek Development Bank have a guarantee of 80% banks. Thus, with the 80% guarantee given by the Development Bank and the guarantee it has from the NSRF, it cannot be excluded that it does not fulfil the criteria. He must have zero turnover so he doesn't meet the criteria. That's what I'm saying. Apparently, you say it if he hears us. And if after your previous question you had twenty messages, you can figure out how much I had. I say, then, that with the Greek Development Bank, we are constantly drawing up guarantee programmes - the other day we made the audiovisual media - precisely to enable those who cannot be borrowed on a bank basis and can be borrowed on our own loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Georgiades. Today and today you have had a debate and in time you are consistent. I can't believe it. Now we're having a hard time with Mr. Friend and Mrs. Keramea. First of all, I would like to say that it will not be discussed after consultation or under number 231/11-10-2021, question of the circle of petitions and questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'To correct the unacceptable provision that provides that the earthquake owners of many buildings only have the right to state aid, for one (1) of them'. We move on to the debate of the first under No 292/10-1-2022 on the first question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The responsibility of the Ministry of Education without "platform" of schooling, in the midst of a pandemic." Mr. Friend, good morning, many years, good year, whatever you wish. I would like to ask you a great deal about the time and confine yourself to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u68	Good year, Mr President, and a good ride in the implementation of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I can imagine with understanding the major problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u69	It'll show.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, we are in the middle of the pandemic. We don’t have to cultivate illusions that we came out of the pandemic. Yesterday we had 80 deaths, import explosions in hospitals and several cases. The World Health Organization warns us that "Omicon" is not a mild disease, but is a dangerous disease. Therefore, the vaccination programme and all other measures that support the public health front should be continued. I am referring to this because we have in front of us the vaccinations of young children who must try to speed up. In this pandemic which ranks our country as the fourth worst country in Europe in terms of cases and the policies pursued by the government on the issue of pandemic, we have a particular issue. In 23.7% of the cases announced by the EGE - yesterday, for example - are cases 0 to 17 years old, that is, pupils and adolescents. Before the holidays, we also had 23.7%. During the vacation, we had a drop in cases, 14%. I'm talking about kids and teenagers. Therefore, the agony of students, parents and teachers that schools should have health insurance when operating is not just justified, but extremely critical. We support the agony and mobilisation of the people who want schools to be open safely, and if it took the week when we had no measures, there would also be a slight extension of the holiday. Security for open schools we want. In this climate, then, the extremely difficult in schools, there is a picture of deregulation in many cases of school work and we are now coming to the subject of telematics. I wish that teleworking would not be necessary because we had a very negative experience last year when the government closed down the school for seven months. Another world 'black' record in our country. Now, however, I have here the decision of the Privacy Authority on November 16, 2021. It's 50/2021. He's a catapult for the Ministry. It condemns the Ministry for five critical omissions and violations of internal, Greek and European legislation, with which personal data of one and a half million pupils and teachers are given to "CISCO" and we have already paid for two million "CISCOs" for the "services" effectively intercepting personal data and in this campaign the Ministry contributed. The government assured us that there is no problem. Now there's a principle decision. There was a first warning decision from the beginning in September 2020. The government ignored her. He said: 'We are told that we are legal'. The authority said that there is legality of a processing purpose. We all agreed that there should be tele-education in schools. No objections. Another purpose and another way of implementing telecommunications, i.e. the 'CISCO' scandal. The Authority warned in September 2020. Nothing was done by the Ministry. So the beginning is now coming and it makes a final decision in November 2021. What did the Department say? He said it was a strange special meeting and that everything was judged in justice, that is, he denied the essence of the principle decision. What did he do since? There was a deadline to comply in two months. The deadline's over on Sunday. Today's Friday, Sunday morning. Has he complied with the convicted complications of the Privacy Authority? What did he answer? Because - be careful - if he has not answered anything, he should have applied for treatment. Has he applied for treatment, or is he thinking of resorting, and why has he not appealed to the Council of State? This is a chaos at the expense of the personal data of our children and teachers. It is obvious that we need a clear answer. What is going on today with tele-education? Is the ‘CISCO’ platform or not? Secondly: has the public pan-Hellenic school network been strengthened and can it play its main role in order to do so? He could do it last year, but the government did not choose the school network and was not strengthened since. Thirdly, today that we are discussing and without having testified to date - up to two days ago, I checked, which I asked and learned - in response to the Privacy Authority, the Government operates a platform for sixty-one cases, sixty-one schools. What platform is that? CISCO or the entire school network? Let's see what the illegality is and what the possibility is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, will answer. Mrs. Ceramic, good morning, many years, good year and whatever you wish. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good year to you, Mr. Friend, good year to all colleagues!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u74	Mr Philly, thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity you give me in public to hear your views and yours and ours about education during the pandemic, but also your general attitude, in the context of this unprecedented health crisis. Mr. Philly, I understand you're in a very difficult position. Why? Because you had invested politically in closed schools. You desperately wanted schools to remain closed, clearly, for opposition reasons. Started the week, end the week and apparently everything went as you didn't want to go. Lifelong education has started smoothly for all, pupils and teachers, and they have been back in their natural space, and here we have to say a very great thank you to students, parents, teachers, training managers, local authorities for their catalytic role in the proper functioning of schools. Secondly, more massive control against the coronary has already been carried out this week since the beginning of the pandemic. Three times check in 1.6 million people, every time check within a 24-hour. And what has been found, Mr. Friend? Thousands of cases. Thirty thousand cases until last night. Potential cases which have been isolated, thereby interrupting the virus dispersal course. I note here, Mr Philly, that two days before the schools opened, you went to the channels and made an appeal. You said 'the appeal at the very last moment will not open the schools'. You said "Let it be a week, how do you do it?". If we had heard you, Mr. Friend, if we had heard you! These thirty thousand cases, these thirty thousand people would be released without any idea that they are potential vectors of the virus, they would have seen at least ten - and I say a little - three hundred thousand potential cases, Mr. Friend, and all this as the result of your appeal. Fortunately, we didn't hear you! Fourthly, there has been a huge distribution company, also the largest one. More than seven million self-tests in just a few days. The greatest absorption ever. Nine out of ten beneficiaries got free self-test from the pharmacies and were available in every school in the country in case someone wanted to get out of there. And because you referred to the ratio of students, Mr. Friend, is it the same to compare when one just has symptoms and goes on to check the same way to control the entire school population? Should we see the denominator? Should we see the positivity that is just 1.4% of the children? Fifth, the closed sections due to cases right now across the country, do you know how much they are, Mr. Philly? Two in over eighty thousand sections. In the first week of reopening the schools, we have hired almost five thousand teachers to meet the needs of educators, so that we do not miss our children and to continue education uninterruptedly. Parents went to work and all, apart from you, I'm afraid, were glad to return to the new normality with security measures. So, from this unfavourable position in which you were in, you said on Monday morning, "Oh, they all opened up, what am I supposed to find now to change the agenda somehow? Personal data.’ Who? You, who, by your term of office - and I remind you - did not do anything about personal data. For leaving the public telecommunications infrastructure, the entire Greek school network can only cover five hundred simultaneous indicators. I would remind you that the educational community numbered 1.6 million people and you had taken care of the platform to cover five hundred people. You handed us schools with four and a half thousand portable devices, and we got six hundred thousand. Five hundred thousand via individual vouchers and ninety thousand in schools. You, who, from your rabies fight against teleining and the dozens of announcements against teleining, are suddenly fighting for her absence. You therefore claim that the Protection Authority has revealed megaton scandals, that personal data were violated, that they were commercially exploited, that you were sold to America. Of course you know very well, Mr Phile, that nothing is true of what you say, firstly because tele-instrumentation has in principle been found to be lawful, appropriate and necessary from the outset and has identified technical points on which there is very close cooperation between the authority and the Ministry of Education throughout this period. Secondly, the Ministry could rely on the general terms of a contract that apply to all, the so-called GAAP applicable to any user. He didn't. Although the supply was free at the time, it went and sought a more favourable, more protective contract for the subject of personal data and achieved it. We have, in other words, achieved a special contract that protects its personal data more than any public user. Thirdly, nowhere, Mr Philly, is the principle that the data of one and a half million users have been sent to America. Nowhere says they were commercially exploited. Nowhere! In fact, the authority has recognised, but these have silenced, that the data are aliases and that it is doubtful whether they can be used in a way that can cause adverse consequences to the data subjects. Unfortunately, however, you also hide that. And one of the main reasons that was chosen by the government, apart from the free nature it lasted for about a year, was that it did not require an user account for students, it only required teachers and not students. So he offered the least invasive solution in relation to personal data. Fourthly, in close cooperation with the beginning throughout this period, we have arranged for even more information tools such as information texts, emerging windows, so-called pop-up windows, audiovisual material, awareness-raising activities for teachers, students on personal data and more. Fifthly, the European Commission's decision, pursuant to REIMS II, which you have invoked, came out in the summer of 2021, in the summer of 2021, when we were passed, I say the implementing decision. It is therefore a follow-up to the Convention, following the impact assessment study and concerns new forecasts established by the European Commission in the summer of 2021. And I'm closing, Mr. President. But don't go far, Mr. Philly. To show the size of hypocrisy and political feasibility the "platform" against which you fight rabies is the same, Mr. Friend, who we use here in this House. It is the same 'platform', Mr Philly, that we use in this House. It is the same, which is the official tool of the European Commission. It is the same that is used in all countries of the world. It is the same that you use in your party at meetings that we have seen you have made social media. So this morning you're using it and this afternoon you're complaining about it. But hypocrisy, Mr. Philie, is such that on the altar of political despair, you are desperately seeking to strike just to create impressions. You're looking for a problem in every solution, while we're looking for a solution to every problem. I shall return, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Do not worry when I leave the Member, I leave the Minister in charge. Here, Mr Philly, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister spoke, spoke, on all matters, but did not answer us whether or not to comply with the decision of the Privacy Authority. He convicted you. Do you doubt that? Here I table in the minutes the decision of the Privacy Authority. I testify to it for there to be in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He condemned you that with omissions - I live in it, I do not know whether there is any, omissions certainly - you have allowed millions of personal data of students, teachers and parents to become a clear vine. Didn't you read the decision? So, can I read it to you? It says that the Ministry of Education has breached the obligations of Article 46 of the General Personal Data Regulation as no assessment of the transmission has been carried out in the United States. It rebukes the Ministry of Education and instructs the authority to make the processing operations in accordance with the provisions of the General Personal Data Regulation and more. Read the decision. Give me a simple answer. Will you or will you not comply with the decision of the Privacy Authority? Will you, even now, protect the rights of our fellow citizens, personal data or not? Will you do illegal telephony, when you need and will need - not in emergencies only, but also in other possibilities - of digital school? So will you insist on this 'CISCO' scandal, or will you strengthen the entire Greek school network, which should not be deported like that? It could have been the network - it has proved in the first space of the pandemic - to cover much of the schools, the whole school. You did not do it or you did it later to take the full responsibility of the schools. You went with 2 million - and you lie here that you are not paying for 'CISCO' - and you gave the job to 'CISCO'. But you gave her a bigger job, which was to uncover the personal data of our people, our children, parents and teachers. Mr President, I would like to ask for a simple answer. Will the Ministry comply with the decision of the Privacy Authority, which ends on Sunday, in two days? Everything else is a cloud of hypocrisy, unequivocality and covertness of the scandal. I repeat, this scandal is at the expense of the personality of our children, parents and teachers. We only want one answer. We have heard a number of things, an apology trial by the Minister for how the pandemic is handled in schools. The EGE's figures are insignificant. With open schools, the number of cases increased from 14% to 24% on the overall set of cases. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Secondly, the argument that with the self-test that is being done, we get the cases and therefore prevent dissemination, is of relative value now. The cases found today, the six thousand cases, have been in school since Monday. The cases found on Wednesday are in schools since Monday. In other words, sixteen thousand cases - I leave the previous ones, the five thousand, which were holidays, no objections - were in schools. So, what are you doing? You opened schools based on "50%+1" and opened a process called "immunity of the herd". Get sick, it's okay, but we're gonna have a social wall of immunity. That is the logic of the government, and I regret that, because that logic is not my conclusion. It comes out of all the answers of the relevant ministers. 'Why do you keep '50%+1'?' was asked about that, Mr. Petsas and other ministers. "But if we put it down - he says - the schools would close." Look out! We therefore maintain with this mechanism for the transmission of the disease, the schools, the '50%+1', which is not a decision of the Committee of Experts, but which has been imposed by the Government, through public declarations by members of the committee, in order not to close the schools, to be open with cases. I'm sorry! Is that official government policy? Is that a responsible policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u77	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u78	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I will not go into the virtual reality that Mrs Kerameau makes with the six hundred thousand computers that she says she has shared. When? He shared last May after two years of pandemic! That's a normal mockery. Then she shared it on the basis of her evidence. Are we kidding the world? Did you give the teachers the necessary tools to enable them, if necessary, to do tele-education? No, nothing. Did you do seminars? No, nothing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to see whether, legally speaking, democracy is compatible with the right to public health and public education, the Ministry can face the great challenge of the pandemic that is evolving. It's not over. It's called the World Health Organization. Yesterday, eighty people died. Don't be reconciled with death so easily. That's the number of hospitalizations. Yesterday we had the first death of "Omicon" in our country. Let's not reconcile death and pandemic. It needs to fight and prepare at all levels for open schools safely.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Phil, I'm starting with the unprecedented one I just heard. You said they were found yesterday, six and a half thousand cases. You're saying these were there since Monday. Mr. Phil, do we all get sick the same day? Then we should run a test, don't run a test again! Is that possible, Mr. Friend, and here? Everyone gets sick the same day? Is that possible? Then don't run a test in school. Just do the first day and then it's over! It's an unprecedented thing that sounded in here. It's unprecedented and it really shows to what extent - or intentionally, I don't know - there's a perception of how this virus works. Secondly, I will say this clearly - Mrs Papaevangelou said yesterday in the official briefing - the positiveness of children is 1.4%. What's going on right now? From where the student population was no longer controlled it is now horizontally controlled, everyone. A million six hundred thousand people are controlled and that is a profit for society. I come to some things you have said and said to your question. You're telling your question that the schools have been opened, because there's no way to do teletext training. Really, Mr. Philly, the fact that schools have opened up all over Europe concerns you? Is that why they opened up? France, Germany, Hungary, Bulgaria, Latvia, Ireland, Luxembourg, Estonia, Italy, the Netherlands. And we have a lot. The fact that our children's natural space is your school troubles? That there our children also get valuable knowledge and valuable skills and develop emotionally concerns? But let's go to tele-education too. How exactly do you say there is no tele-education when it's done, and it's still done? It shall be done whenever it closes a section due to a coronary, but also for other exceptional reasons. For example, we had an earthquake in Crete, we had an earthquake in Florina. Typical training is provided for. I told you, but you didn't hear it. I told you that we have been working with the Personal Data Protection Authority all this time and not only in this matter, but on many issues that you have unfortunately not done anything in all the years of SYRIZA's term of office in the Ministry of Education. You say - and you have said so in public - that there is no active contract with 'CISCO', that it has expired. The licenses for the use of a platform for a hundred and fifty-four thousand teachers shall be valid until the summer of 2023. He's at "GENERAL" these things. You claim that the Protocol '50% + 1' is an arbitrary political decision. You know it's not true. You know that the protocol was also discussed in September and January and even now the committee was not asked to change. And I remind you the epidemiological surveillance has increased even more now. Now, not only the non-vaccinated pupils and teachers, but also the vaccinated ones, are checked at the committee's suggestion. In addition, in case of a case, tests shall be carried out every day for a five-day period. And I would remind you that, with the application of the protocol between September and December, more than eight out of ten sections in which there was a case between students, there was no second case. One more thing, Mr. Philly. You are talking in your question about institutional inability to the Ministry of Education. Why? Because we have referred to the provision of the Constitution and of constitutional case law that the decisions of an independent authority can be the subject of a judicial judgement. Yes, sir. So you're saying the reference to the Constitution is inappropriate. Even the Constitution itself may be inappropriate, with what I understand from what you're saying. And it says that which party? What he said - and he is unfortunately still saying - that the independent authorities should be abolished. What he said "to understand the joints of power the second time". What just yesterday didn't last forty-eight hours even messed with the Arena Ice. Why are you messing with the Arena Ice? Because he apologized for serious accusations a person who is friendlyly approaching you. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying a few words about the broader position of your party during the pandemic. And I note here that you are a Dedicated Opposition and you have an institutional role that you must play with a sense of responsibility and consistency. And on the contrary, unfortunately, SYRIZA has chosen populism. He has chosen "no" in everything, zeroing everything, depreciating the body of the educational community. You close your eyes, Mr. Philly, to the anti-invaders and allow some of your executives to do so yet, not you personally, but your colleagues. You tried to despise policies that, as it turned out, significantly strengthened the vaccination programme, such as the sad accusations that freedom pass was bribery. And yet, it has made a decisive contribution to increasing vaccination. Sadly, SYRIZA does not only associate itself with the national effort against this global health crisis, but is undermining it and permanently energizing it. In education, Mr. Friend, you have done everything you can to prevent the smooth functioning of education. When the schools had to be closed you asked to stay open. And when the schools were opened, you were asking to close. When teleworking was implemented, not only did you prevent its complete failure, but you also strengthened every voice that might have tried to undermine it. And while one of the most extensive control systems against the coronary in the country has been established, you constantly deceive it and say: "Schools open as they closed." Really, Mr. Philly? You said that this September. Really? Schools had closed down last year without any incubator incubator a few months ago. After more than nine out of ten they're vaccinated. Is that the same for you? Does that mean the same? Schools close as they open? When every student of a case class is tested, is that the schools close as they open? When tests are carried out systematically, in vaccinated or non-vaccinated, every week two and three times, is that the schools close as they open? Fortunately, society and the international community are aware of reality. And the reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that. The reality is that of a Bergmann Stiftung survey in the OECD countries. This is all about education. When you, Mr. Friend, surrendered power in 2019, the country's readiness to face the pandemic in education was one of the lowest in OECD countries. Here Greece is twenty-second, Mr. Phile, when you handed over power. Where did our country get its performance in education in relation to the pandemic? It was found in sixth place. This was the Greece of SYRIZA and this, Mr. Friend, is the Greece that is worthy of Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, too, all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u82	Are you going to comply with this or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Philly, please. We're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u84	We're not talking. We're done, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Philly, we're done! The next question...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u86	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u87	I'm talking, Mr. Philly! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u88	Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u89	I'm listening. That's how he answered you. That's how he wanted to answer. Should we get her out of the ear? Please. Next, the second, with number 284/10-1-2022, is a top-level question by the Member of Parliament for Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The government is reducing the monthly income of thousands of pensioners up to EUR 268. The only solution is the immediate withdrawal of the relevant circular and the sixth under number 303/10-1-2022, a topical question for the second cycle of the Hercule of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Cyclic Tsakloglou also affects the retired Armed Forces and Security Body." They shall refer to the same subject and shall be discussed at the same time, without affecting the rights of the speakers in their speaking time, in application of the provision in paragraph 4, of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We'll start with Mr. Mulkiotis. Good morning, many years. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I wish you many years and a good year. Good year to the Ministers present and to the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's services. Health and power to have. Minister, my question refers to an issue that has taken a great deal of light and you know it. The Government of New Democracy for two and a half years has, on the one hand, maintained the most disastrous introduced by Law No.4387/2016, such as the abolition of the CSR, but also the pension thresholds that ensured a decent level of living for the under-retired and, on the other hand, with pseudo-interpretations made by the Government of the Council of State, refuses to pay the low pensioners the cut gifts of June 2015 to May 2016. Despite the election, and I will say populist cries about the unacceptable Katrugalo law on the part of the government and the government's commitments to abolish this law, it has not only maintained it, but it seems that it is firmly, permanently and intentionally I would say that it seeks to use this law, not only at the expense of pensioners but also of future pensioners. Proof of this, Minister, is the last circular, which you sign, which, as the head of the Ministry of Labour, reduces up to EUR 268 the monthly pension for those who receive a pension from the same right and a pension for death. And I say this despite the opposite interpretation which exists and has been given with a circular of the Ministry itself since December 2016. According to your circular, Minister, you say that ‘the financial results of this circular shall apply from the date of its publication’, i.e. 31 December 2021. You saw that there was a collapsing protest in society, from us in the Change Movement, in PASOK, as well as in counter-population. You interviewed SKAI and amended the circular by interviewing, saying that the reductions concern pensioners from 1 January 2022 onwards and not older people. Subsequently, Minister, national pensions are not an intrinsic type added to the pension awarded, but are a key and integral part of the pension and are intrinsically linked to it. The pension is linked to the national pension rather than to the pensioner. For the last two and a half years, exactly as it is and there is no problem with the interpretation of the provisions on aggregation of a national pension which has not been called into question by the New Democracy, by you as a government in two and a half years, not even when you were in the Opposition, but even by creditors that interpretation has not been called into question. It was fully adopted by creditors as well. So your policy, two and a half years, has raised reasonable concerns about further reductions, and everything else has to do with insurance rights. The questions are two, Mr President, and I conclude. Do you intend to accept the proposal, the suggestion of the Change Movement, to withdraw this circular, which created so many problems? Because he only created problems. Secondly, how do you treat, Minister, this unprecedented fact that with the new circular you are creating pensioners who, while establishing a right under exactly the same provisions, will have a differentiation in the amount of pension according to the date of retirement? And on what basis? A legal basis, a circular. And finally, are there today in the House plans and further thoughts or other suggestions to make a political decision, implement them as political decisions and have, in our opinion, amended - in the hands - the provisions governing the recognition of plausible years of insurance? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, and you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on the occasion of my timely question, it was certainly a meeting and briefing that I had with the Pensioners of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies of the Region of Crete, but the issue of your circular concerns all pensioners and relates to old age and widow and disability pensions. Here, then, we have this phenomenon. You say today that you are applying the Katorugalou and the Brutsi law. The Katrugalu law is five years in force. The Brutsi Act is also almost two and a half years old. So you come after so long to interpret these laws with the circular - that's what we support - by legislating through the circular. At no point does the Katorugalou law, and at no point does Brutsi mention any specialisation obligation in this way, because the integration of pensions into the person of each pensioner has already been done with a national pension that is entitled to and the rewards or rewards that he receives and the integration of the pensions of the missing person has already been done before the entitlement to a widow's pension is granted. I am referring specifically to the widow's pension. It is therefore simple to apply a law which has already been applied to the person of each pensioner through the circular. So we say withdrawal of the circular. Come and talk about what the problems are, if they exist, and legislatively solve and anticipate things. So here we must say that, on the one hand, the national pension or the basic, as was called by Law 3863, is nothing new, it is the individualization of state participation in the pension system. The tripartite funding has existed. But after the n. 3863, but mainly after the Katrugalou Act, this state funding is individualized. While precedents of these laws provided that, in cases of widow’s pensions, 20%, 80% or 70% now said in law, the pension which is transferred to the beneficiary, you are coming and making a double cut. And remove the portion of state funding and reduce not to 70%, but to 35% more the reward. It is a double reduction that is not provided for by any law. Either the percentage of the reduction should therefore be applied as planned, but in the whole pension, or the logic should be changed if you want the national piece to be removed, that is, the part of State funding, which is 346 or 384, and the part of the compensation remains intact. It's two different things, but you're unfortunately applying both numerical cumulatives and extra. In this sense, we call for the withdrawal of the circular and of course for a debate on the issues which, in your opinion, are pending and legislative to see how we can solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, good evening. Happy birthday and a good year. You have six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, many years to all of you, the Bureau and the Members present. Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Mulkiotis, allow me to begin my answer by quoting the facts as they have been, because I think that the intention of issuing the circular has been fully misinterpreted, as well as its effect on the current pensioners. First of all, let me point out that although both of the honourable Members of the same party have different interpretations of the provisions of the law, I would like to point out that in your questions you are interpreting the provisions of the law in a different way. Mr. Mulkiotis, if I read your question correctly, you really think that the crucial issue of cumulation of national pensions, Mr.3487/2016, has been correctly applied to six years since his vote. At the same time you, Mr Kegeroglu, are basically accepting that the recent circular leads to the right application of the law, but at the same time you are calling for the continuation of the law's non-implementation due to the situation of the pandemic and increased inflation. Let me begin by quoting the text in paragraph 5 of Article 7 of Law No4387/2016 - it is the well-known Karugalu - because it says the completely opposite of what you previously claimed and I quote the law. The law reads: ‘In the event of the cumulation of pensions, a national pension is granted. In the case of a pensioner or beneficiary of a full pension and a reduced principal pension, the amount of the national pension awarded shall be full. In the case of a pensioner or - I stress this point - two reduced basic pensions, the national pension rate corresponding to each of them shall be paid where their sum is less than or equal to the full amount of the national pension.' Who are the beneficiaries other than pensioners? It's just widows and orphans. Clearer wording in the law could not exist. That's the law of Katrugalou. How, though, was the law implemented? In the durable tactics of the previous government, I say 'Others I do', while they voted with this content, they eventually implemented something different. My predecessor, Mr Petropoulos, has issued a circular which, in fact, was undone by the law he interpreted, allowing for the cumulation of national pensions beyond the limit of full national pension. In other words, he was legislating through the circular. The result of the circular was to cause the FBI problems of a service and operational nature. Indeed, in the relevant correspondence, the ECA points to the mismatch of law and circular. The Circular issued by the Ministry on December 30, 2021 provided answers to these questions of the FBI. Unfortunately, this is not the only time that previous government circulars cause such problems. But as you can see, in the context of a favoured rule of law you cannot ask a minister not to apply the existing legislation. In a more general context now, L.4387/16 states that the main pension consists of the sum of two components, the national and the payroll. Reimbursement shall constitute the pro rata part of the pension. If the insured principal is entitled to a pension either on his own right, on the grounds of invalidity, or on the basis of a transfer and the amount of that pension is linked to the contributions paid, the insured person's pension and the period of insurance. On the other hand, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the Act, the purpose of national pension is to avoid situations of poverty and social exclusion among pensioners. National pensions contribute to ensuring adequate replacement of income for the most vulnerable, who would be severely affected by the strict application of remuneration, such as long-term unemployed or those working in non-formal forms of employment or those paid at very low wages. The national pension - I stress this - is linked to the remuneration paid. It is the amount of pension that is financed directly from the state budget and is linked, in other words, to taxation. According to clipboard estimates of the services of the Ministry of Labour for 2021 - because the definitive estimates will be available in the next few months - State budget transfers to pay national pensions last year exceeded EUR 8 billion, i.e. almost 4.5% of Gross Domestic Product. In fact, at this point I would like to add - because it runs counter to what you said before - that social security contributions are not enough to cover pensions. According to the same estimates, the State budget grant for the payment of pensions last year exceeded EUR 6 billion, i.e. it was more than 3% of GDP, and this does not include the transfer of the budget to the ECA to cover the insurance contributions of those who were suspended by the pandemic. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mulkiotis and Kegeroglu, the national pension is self-evidently prosperous. A minimum level of income and protection against poverty and social exclusion is guaranteed. That is why the provision of national pensions must serve the principles of equality and universality. The protection of pensioners against poverty and social exclusion must be done in a uniform way. Does the budget make sense to transfer for the same reason as a national pension to a pensioner of EUR 384 and to another EUR 653? You will allow me to say that what has been easily reproduced in the last few days in the public debate by those who do not know - or do not know - cannot be a party that wants to exercise a serious and responsible opposition. It is inexpensive, untrue and deeply populist to hear that the government or Chacloglu cut half of the pensions for widows and disability. I stress that we have never claimed in our circular that they will cut pensions for widows and invalidity from current pensioners. Our intention is exactly the opposite. After all, the circular expressly states that there is no retroactiveness to the provisions. You are both experienced politicians and well known to the insurance system and I appreciate you in particular. I therefore consider it necessary to have a sound and objective dialogue on the basis of the facts. That's all this way and I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor and you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I did not expect in your answer to put issues - not castings, but much more - and social automation. I didn't expect that. I'm telling you, honestly. Let us make it clear that there is no distortion or misinterpretation of the circular. Don't interpret them that way. I do not think that the interpretation you gave was correct in relation to the questions that were in existence. You know what this particular circular caused. We will say, Minister, that there is a law in the SYRIZA - ANEL government, the famous Katorugalou law that abolished the thresholds and reduced pensions by 25% to 30%. You know that. The EKT that PASOK had introduced at that time and had supported the income of more than seven hundred thousand low pensioners. Once again, we have a matter with the Katorugalou law. That's the law we have. Did you indirectly raise an issue of the viability of the insurance system, namely that the forecasts to be available in relation to pensioners cannot be met? For a while ago, when the Brutsi law we were talking about was passed, Mr. Brutsis had guaranteed the viability of the insurance system and has guaranteed proportionate studies for decades! He had said so in both the plenary and the committees, and it was clear. I say this because I see that a matter is being raised now and I would also like there to be an answer to that. So today, when we have this Katrugalou law again, let's see what that government, your government, Mr. Mitsotakis' government, has done. Indeed, Article 7 of Law No.4387/2016 states that in the event of the cumulation of pensions a national pension is granted. How, then, does this provision apply for five years, on the basis of the instructions given by the Ministry of Labour, on the basis of the Circulars of 2016, 2017, which have not only been accepted, but have checked and approved by the lenders - I said so in my prototype - which I will submit in the Minutes and what it says? It says that in the event of the cumulation of pensions a national pension is granted per pension category. This is a clear and unambiguous issue. Should we simply explain what has been going on for five years? Let's just say that, Minister, and I want you to tell me if that's not the case. Do we have two old age pensions? A national pension is granted. Can we have three old age pensions? A national pension. Do we have an old age pension and a death pension? We have two national pensions, one old age and one death. Do we have two old age pensions and one for death? We have a national pension for the two old age pensions - I repeat a national pension for the two old age pensions - and a national pension due to death. Why has this interpretation and this application, which we believe is correct, been made? Because the national pension - and we repeat it, Minister - is inextricably linked to the pensioner and is not linked to the pensioner. That is what we are making clear. It is inextricably linked to the pension and not to the pensioner! If we had a different interpretation, this different interpretation directly affects the constitutionally established principle of remuneration, since the pensioner had also paid insurance contributions. You, with the circular at the end of December 2021, say that in all cases of cumulation of pensions - in all and not per pension category, here I want to take care of it - a national pension is granted. Shall we say it more simply, Minister? Those who receive a pension from their own right - i.e. an old age pension or an invalidity pension - who have a misfortune to lose their partner, then taking a small, generally, death pension, will lose the national pension corresponding to death. That's simpler, Minister, what does it mean? It means reductions of up to EUR 268 per month and EUR 3.216 per year. We will not say congratulations to that, Minister. We will not say congratulations, and that is why we are making criticism and we are saying it clearly and with examples, because that is what is happening. And now why do you reduce pensions? Because, Minister, you're reducing pensions and you're saying it. I'm going to invoke the press release of your department, which I'm going to file in the Minutes. What does he say among other things? ‘For the effective development of ECAI information systems and software.’ So, really, five years has it been aalum in the software systems of the FBI? What happened, so I could figure it out? Because that's what the press release says. Should we talk about Mr. Hatzidakis, what did he say? Can I also invoke the New Democracy paper - and I shall table it in the Minutes - which has been published in information on these issues? It says, first of all, that you are doing this because it is explicitly laid down in the Katrugalou law. And what's the second excuse? So that there are no two speed pensioners. In other words, if there are no pensioners who are the sucklers and who take a national pension, as provided for by the law, and others next door who, due to various 'windows' - you now hear expressions from the Ministry - are receiving two national pensions. What does the Mitsotakis Government say? He says, firstly, that he cut pensions from the disabled and the widows, doing five years later a new interpretation of provisions in order, he says, to operate the information systems of the EPC. That's what he says. I don't give any more interpretation. It cuts pensions to work the information systems after five years. Two and a half years he hasn't spoken at all and suddenly speaks now, late next year, on the eve of a more general behavior and situation in society. Secondly, he cuts pensions to implement the Katorugalou law, while in election, you were saying we abolish the Katorugalou law.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u97	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u98	Yes, Mr. President. But you are invading, Minister, in this way. You smuggled him and the government smuggled him. You said "We repeal the law of Katrugalos", and now you say "We do not abolish it, we implement it". Can I say on Mr Hatzidakis' argument about equality in dealing with pensioners? Let me say that. Here, Mr President, I will only describe this behaviour as surrealistic. Explain why? After the outcry of the Circular, which was made by all opposition, Mr. Tsakloglu said what he said on 6 January in "SKAI", that the reduction would be from 1-1-2022 onwards, not for the past. It was in contrast with Mr Hatzidakis, who said that no, would be an equalisation of all pensions. So Mr Tsakloglu is creating pensioners in this way as he said - I do not know whether they will - of two speeds. I think they will be two speeds, Minister, on the sole criterion if they are retired before or after 2022. And we say that, with a circular, not a law. So that's a matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. In this sense, then, we have raised issues for pensioners who, while establishing a right under exactly the same provisions, will the amount of their pension be differentiated on the basis of what? The date of retirement. And on the legal basis of what? Circular! I insist on that, Minister, and you have not given an answer. That comes out and it's tragic what's happening. You do not understand that you are opening the door to legal claims on the basis of essential principles, but also of infringements. You raise issues of violation of Article 4 of the Constitution. Mr President, I shall submit to the Minutes and the relevant memorandum of the Boeotian Security Councils.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u99	Good. Thank you very much. Give the floor to Mr. Chacloglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u100	We say retire the circular on December 30, 2021. And, Minister, there is something you have not answered, as far as I understand it. Do you, in fact, plan further amendments to these issues of pension and insurance legislation? For example, are you planning to modify the provisions concerning the recognition of plausible insurance periods? It is a question you did not answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am never easy to describe, as opposed to you who have made designations to us. We are returning to you the designation of populism for three reasons. The first reason is that your Government had promised in advance the abolition of the hard core of the provisions of the Katrugalo Law at least - Mr Mulkiotis has been mentioned in detail - which you maintain. The second reason why we are returning the designation is that you say that the administration that did not apply the Katorugalou law was illegal throughout the previous period, since it was foreseen by it, but also by the Brutsis Act, and I now come to implement it, but you are saying that before 31/12-2021 I will not apply it. So you did Rusphetti. The third reason why I am returning to you is that while expressly mentioning my question that according to the document of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies of the Region of Crete, they are said to be my own opinion and you wanted to bring me into conflict with Mr Mulkiotis. There are two specific things in which, in the interests of the insurance system, you need to be more specific and to come to Parliament to see whatever problems you think exist and need to be solved by means of circular legislation. We have an interpretation that you do according to your own way. Mr Mulkiotis told you that the national pension is linked to the pension and not to the pensioner, and you said that it was a privileged one. It's not foresightful. That is why the law provides for between EUR 346 and EUR 384 and connects it to the years of insurance. This is a link to the pension rather than to the face. If he was with the person, the privileged pensions would not be a different amount. We would say that all the Greeks take, since they are not entitled to a pension from the insurance system, EUR 346 or EUR 384. Does any of the laws say that to be prosperous? Preferential pensions are different and you know that very well. National pensions individualise the state funding previously allocated to the common corps by the State. The state was giving 10 billion in 2012, for example, to the funds to pay pensions. The change of what he says? I give this part personalized plus the reward, which it does in a new way. So we're coming to the essence of your cartoon. The circular, yours, applies two cuts. One haircut is the removal of the national pension in the event of accumulation by another person due to widowhood, which the law does not say - it says: by category a national pension - and, moreover, it is in its logic before the introduction of a basic or national pension for widows' pensions. So it applies your circular and the two reductions that have been made for two different systems. We are therefore reintroducing our proposal, because dialogue at this level, as much as it is exhausted in the context of a timely process, cannot yield: withdraw this circular and come with a dialogue and the Committee on Social Affairs to see what problems you want to solve and make such interpretations that run counter to the current legal system. If you insist that Mr. Petropoulos has pulled out a circular and illegally smuggled and lost the public money, you can tell us. This is where I testify to Mr. Petropoulos's circular. If you insist that Mr Brutsis for a considerable period of time, who was Minister, was illegal and did not apply the law and lost the public money, tell us that, to personalise the responsibilities of both of these people. If you think that until 31 December, when these two laws were in force, both the previous ones and you lost public money, you should tell us. But you cannot say that 'yes, this is an illegality, but I am good, you can't, and I give them up to 31 December, and I apply them from 1 January'. It's either one or the other. What, in our view, is that your circular legislates unconstitutional and goes beyond the laws that apply. In any case, it was your party that denounced the Katorugalou law with us and it was your party that at the same time failed his promise to abolish the core of this law. We therefore call on you to return to the order of law and parliament and to look at the issues through the procedures envisaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Here, Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkootis and Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to begin with two comments on what you have said. The first concerns what Mr Mulkiotis said about the sustainability of the system. I have said several times from this Step that, according to the available studies we currently have from the National Analogue Authority, all of what they show is that over the long term the social security system is sustainable, but in the short term it creates very large deficits. It is true that the long-term trend of these deficits is declining, but that at the moment we are all seeing them. I don't have to say anything more. In the second part mentioned by Mr Kegeroglu, as regards whether the national pension under the law is linked to the pensioner or to the pensioner, I think I have given a very clear answer by quoting the very villages of the law and not some general wording of mine. I have already explained clearly in my prototype how the need to issue a circular emerged because of the existing mismatch of the legislative law and the circular of my predecessor. The government has shown that it is approaching social security on current and future terms. It ensures that pensioners maintain and improve their standard of living and proves in practice their support for those who need more protection. For example, a higher rate of replacement was set by Law 4670/2020, which led to higher pensions and, indeed, to the pension reward. Pensions were recalculated and retroactively granted EUR 1.3 billion to a million hundred thousand pensioners. On the Prime Minister's initiative, an allowance of EUR 250 was granted at the end of 2021 to seven hundred thousand low pensioners, at a cost of approximately EUR 200,000,000. We shielded the supplementary insurance of the new generation by making a reform aimed at higher pensions for future pensioners and many other smaller ones. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is coming out of ten years of recession and two years of pandemic. The government's strategic objective was and remains to maintain and defend a decent standard of living for pensioners. For this reason, I will make it clear once again that no existing widow or disability pensioner will see a reduction in his pension. The circular to which your question refers is the removal of bad practices that create social and economic inequalities, which only concern those insured under a second pension from 1 January 2022 onwards, with a view to a smooth and in-depth application of the law on the non-coupling of more than one national pension in addition to the amount of full national pension. So there is no retroactive effect, and that is why there will be no reductions in existing pensions. Let us be clear: In principle, cumulation of pensions does not mean cumulation of national pensions beyond the amount of full national pension, namely, today EUR 384. This is true, in fact, regardless of the type and the cause of the pension entitlement. Mild time adjustment, legal certainty, respect for the right of citizens to be able to plan their lives without surpriseing the state itself and the existing economic and social conditions in a pandemic environment are crucial factors that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs takes into account and takes into account. We remain firmly committed to respecting this contract of confidence that we have with the citizens and which obliges us to intensify the speed of the reform work, while respecting the limitations that have arisen from previous governments' policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Minister. Have a good time to Mr. Mulkiotis and Mr. Tsakloglou. Mr Kegeroglu remains, because the next and final question is his. This is the question under number 299/10-1-2022 of the President of Heraklion's Change Movement, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: ‘Extension of time limits for posting in the property register in earthquake-stricken areas and the lifting of the unfavourable treatment of the legacy during realisation’. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u108	Minister, two topics are raised in the question: one was the one before the earthquakes and it was the issue of the same treatment of the legacy as those which are not legacy in the declaration on the register. For the purposes of real estate, these are treated in two different ways. It's the multiple question I've asked, tenth in a row. So while, for a parcel, for example, which is not of lots, with two jury statements, the E9 statement and, of course, the additives they need next, it can go ahead with the cemetery process, when it is legacy it is not enough, and there must be a whole legal procedure with judicial decisions, as provided for in Article 39 of a law of 2019 - I do not remember the number - and it has a huge cost that is borne by the owner, and it is often greater than that of the value of the parcel. So that is what the problem exists and I ask you to finally cooperate with the Ministry of Rural Development, where your predecessor is now responsible, who said that he is in agreement, but he says that rural development is what must be initiated and tell us what is going on. So work together to find a solution. The other issue concerns the deadline for suspension, which is necessary due to earthquakes. You gave me an answer in October that the post is scheduled for March 2022, but, Minister, there is a need to extend this over a considerable period of time, because, unfortunately, the procedure that has to do with the inspections - primary, secondary and tertiary - of the earthquakes of greedy buildings has not yet been carried out. This means that at the end of the day people cannot declare what they have, land or building, in relation to the Land register. I would therefore say that an extension of at least three months after March is necessary in order to have a smooth development on this subject as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Deputy Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Levanie, good morning, many years, good year. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u110	Good year, Mr President, Mr Kegeroglou, and good strength in your new duties as the national defence sector leader. I am sure you will also have excellent cooperation with Nikos Panagiotopoulos and with Nikos Chardalia in a critical and nationally sensitive area. So you raised two points. I will answer both of you clearly. The first issue is for the parcels. We talked about it last time. Once the register comes, the rights arising from a real estate under the existing legislation are documented. As long as there is legislation regulating a matter, the register is also doing so. If legislation comes from the appropriate ministries, we will be happy to do so and the contractor will write down the relevant acts. I told you next time that I think this can be done. It does not in itself concern the Ministry of Digital Governance, because it is actually the executive of the current legislation. The second issue which is about earthquakes, we discussed it in October. At the moment, if I'm not mistaken, Heraklion, the earthquake areas are in an emergency until 28 March of this year. The post will take place one month after the deadline for the emergency is over. If, for whatever reason, the emergency is protracted, we will be moving accordingly. But I have to tell you that it is a matter that is based on private contracts. The individual makes real estate, and the extensions also create an economic impact, which we are obviously prepared to bear and pay for. I would like to tell you that especially for this part, especially in the case of Heraklion, but also in cases where it is in a similar phase of realisation, the possibility of submitting even a late declaration shall not be suspended. Even when the final postings are made one can go to deposit a late statement on the temporary posting and it will immediately be incorporated into the next final and final statement. No one loses their rights, but it would be nice - you've said it before - to finally finish the Stock Exchange. Apparently the earthquake is an extraordinary and unpredictable event. But what we want is for the world to be served and for the landmark to end, so we are going to an extension of one month after the end of the emergency, and from there, we will be in constant communication with the actors all over Greece, because you saw that in a neighbouring prefecture in Rethymnon, we have given an extension for the realisation in the past few days. In the Cyclades we did the same. We did so in Chania yesterday with a decision of the Board of Directors of the Land Office. Wherever we need an extension we are doing so in order to make it easier for the world, weighting all the parameters, such as pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the wishes of the Minister. Of course, I do have competence and I do have cooperation. It concerns issues of national dimensions, and it is therefore necessary to cooperate. It's not a question of choice anymore. In relation to the issues raised by my question and the answers you have given, Minister, I have to tell you that for the legacy of the people at a significant percentage - not all, but a large percentage - they have made statements. The register doesn't recognize them. They were submitted according to the law. He says: "Here is not a normal parcel, it is part of a legacy". This separation and this percentage that cannot be recognised by the register because of this clause that has been set - from where and how far this clause on the register? - I think it should be a stimulus to the Ministry of Rural Development. The Ministry tells us: "But, I have no paper that tells me that there is a problem." So you have the evidence. Ask them from the register. What percentage was not recognised because of the legacy, because it is within areas that are legacy? I say about the people they submitted, because the others were disappointed and did not submit and why they were asked for two grand, the engineer with the lawyer, while the other neighbor says "I'm going with two jury statements". The one who has a lot of minor rehabilitation wants two grand, the other goes with two jury testimonies, of which is less the cost, much less the cost. For this injustice, you must give the Ministry of Rural Development the stimulus to correct it, giving it the percentages from the register. It's not an object today. Ask them from the register to see. In view of the fact that not everyone has submitted because they have been disappointed, as I have said. On the question of extension, there will certainly be an extension of the emergency situation because, unfortunately, the procedures have not gone ahead, and I would like that extension to be yours, and it is not just for the leghold traps, for God's sake! It concerns all of the property and, above all, those with buildings and has not yet been cleared if there are buildings or plots, what will the other party say. I think it is a matter that you need to follow and we may find a solution with the Ministry of Rural Development for the legs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. Mr. Lebanon has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is interesting, because this was initiated by a law of the Greek state, the Rally Government, in '43, which was given the farms to landowners, so that they could be regulated under certain conditions and conditions, which in some other parts of Greece may have been otherwise regulated. However, the Ministry of Rural Development is aware of this. I think that Mr Stylis has answered you, too, that there is a legislative committee to resolve this particular issue of agricultural parcels and I think you have it in writing. You have answered the question you have asked him as well. The Land register has not been passed because it does not allow for fragmentation mainly in the transfers of the land concerned in accordance with the law of 1943. In any case, however, I told you that once the legislative initiative comes, we will give it to ourselves. There is excellent cooperation with the relevant ministries and the Ministry of Finance, if necessary, in order to see how it can be solved. It is, however, a matter of great urgency to the Ministry of Rural Development. Now, with regard to the second issue, it is obvious that the whole contract is to be extended. It concerns not only the parcels but all the rights that exist in all kinds of property. It is interesting to see - and we expect to see - the extension decision, in which areas of emergency, because it may not have to be the current one, to be a smaller perimeter. That's how we move and we'll see how we can make it easier. In any case, we take into account and weight the emergency situation, because it is also one, if you like, a strong legal step in order to extend the convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-14-S1-commons.u116	With the agreement of the House at 11.43 p.m. the sitting is closed on Monday 17 January 2022 and 17.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
