ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: "We hereby inform you about the topical and urgent questions debate, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, on Monday 17 January 2022 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The 283/10-1-2022 topical question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Athanasios Plori. The 285/10-1-2022 topical question, by number 286/10-1-2022, or by number 301/10-1-2022, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostantinos Skreka. The question under number 287/10-1-2022 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni. The question under number 288/10-1-2022, Question No 291/10-1-2022, Question No 300/10-1-2022, and Question No 884-11-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The question under number 290/10-1-2022 will be answered by the Secretary of State for Culture and Sport, Mr Nikolaos Drotromanolakis. The question under number 296/10-1-2022 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, George Stylion. Please take the appropriate action. The Secretary-General, Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis.’ We are therefore entering into the debate on the report on the future of the European Union. FURTHER QUESTIONS The fourth question will be discussed with number 283/10-1-2022 in the second cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Suspension of operation of the Penteli Paediatric Hospital". Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you too, Minister, Mr Plearis, for coming here yourself, as you are used to, to answer our question from Mera25. Listen, Minister, we were very surprised that when we were informed a week ago of your government's decision to suspend, in our view, the operation of the Penteli Children's Hospital on the pretext of pandemic. With this decision, Minister, which was announced at night - because it was late in the evening - the first day of the document announcing it on a holiday day, it is like you want to spend a little bit of the stuff on the mosquito, and I'm sorry for the expression. On a holiday day, then, when the Greek State was late, this decision abolishes you for at least one month, at the very least, the highest function of the Children's Hospital, turning it exclusively into a vaccination center. Look, this decision goes on, while in the hospital it has been working for a long time, as you know better than me, a four-line vaccination centre, in which more than four hundred children are vaccinated every day, while, as you know, it has been supporting for eight months with staff and the hospital’s vaccination centre. Intermediate pandemic, Minister, your Government and you choose to abolish the highest function of a hospital, which, apart from the entire region of the north and northeast Attica, serves, as you know, the wider region and still neighbouring counties, such as the recently burned Evia, Viotia and other counties. Your Government, in line with its constant practice, which is a total undermined by the National Health System for the benefit of private interests, denounces an exemplary - and we believe that it is a hospital, a fully-prepared hospital, which has a higher structure, a clinical COVID, but also a treatment unit, which, in our opinion, is now degraded to an almost provincial health centre or even worse, at an old IKA level with only that of vaccination, while at the same time depriving a whole generation of specialists and adjunctive doctors and the rest of staff, depriving citizens of necessary and qualified health services. So, of course, you're pushing these citizens, where else? In the private sector. On the basis of the above, Minister, I ask you directly: tell us why your Government has been judged to close a whole specialist hospital and to convert it to a vaccination centre only when vaccinations have already been carried out in this hospital. By inhibiting the hospital's higher function, and indeed the pandemic's mediator, how will the citizens of the areas covered by this specialized and modern hospital be served? And secondly, - it is time, Minister - do you want to commit, on the basis of this timely question, to the fact that the full operation of the hospital, which provides the necessary and specialized health services to the citizens, and that you will not just suspend its tertiary function, but will you finally take the necessary steps to strengthen it, such as the most obvious of all, the recruitment of permanent personnel, and doctors and nurses? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u3	Mr Ploris has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u4	Mr Gregoryid, let's start with the latter and put the matter on its real dimension. Obviously, the hospital will operate properly. Because it all starts with a paraphilogy that some people want to degrade the hospital and not work. It will operate normally and will be fully operational when the vaccination issue is completed. And that is what we will give concrete dates for you, Mr Grigoriadis, from here, because that is parliamentary control, whether we agree or disagree, to check whether or not the timetables are respected. That is why, even at my meeting with the workers - Deputy Mrs Gaga, she had taken care of the matter and went up and met them, but then they asked for a meeting with me - I assured them that this conversion that is only about afternoons and for a certain period of time. What, then, is the reality and the dimension of the matter? Morning on-calls are working normally. And indeed, in order to function as a vacant centre and develop more units, it does not work on Monday and Thursday, which has a on-call and two every 15 days on Sunday. These newspapers are fully covered by the other paediatric hospitals. He never invented himself, he would agree with one of the two. So despite the suffering it will be able to work. Is that something permanent? I tell you again, Mr Gregoriadis, clearly not. It is about a framework that has given me up to six weeks. It's the ceiling that can work. I have to tell you that over seven and a half thousand more dates have been developed, which have already been covered as a whole. Indeed for the second dose, because there may be decay, because now the booster dose is running at the same time, if possible, the function will come sooner. So the time I give you is the absolute one in which the afternoon on-calls will not be available. We also wish to see the vaccinations covered, because there will be gaps because the booster dose is one, some second doses being able to do them elsewhere safely. Because it needs to be on a conditional basis, because we are talking about children five to eleven years old. It was held operationally that this was the only suitable solution, precisely because otherwise there should be growth in all pediatrics and possible overall malfunctions, while the 1st RU, which examined the project, considered that it would be operational in order to be able to operate we should go to that. I understand the objections and the fears that have been raised and that is why you are giving me the opportunity with your question, regardless of whether we disagree, from this moment on, to say clearly that this is a temporary measure and that it is about that time. In fact, fifty - seven people have been recruited in medical and nursing staff. There's another thirteen more recruits coming out. In the next recruitments in 2022, the HR will ask for what other needs exist and there will be full hospital staff, full on-call operation, and we hope this temporary measure - if we succeed - will be lifted sooner than six weeks. I gave you a year fully binding which is this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the public assurance you have given from a part like this, the Step of the House, that it is not going to close the hospital, because we are really very concerned about it. I would also like to say that it is good that you set a timetable, but you will allow me to tell you that so far the information we have had has been that the ceiling is four weeks and you have just done six. I don't want to suspect that this means that the six can be eight, sixteen, and finally no on-site hospital ever. I believe your words. I will be here because this is my institutional job, to check on you to see if you have kept your word that the government has actually brought the hospital back to normal. Now, look, the fact that nurses and hospital doctors are currently strikers, how do you find it? Do you think these people in the middle of a coronary and in the middle of earthquakes, famines and strains are solely intended to undermine your Government or you personally? Right now the doctors of a public hospital, the Pentelis Children, are only strikers for the right to work, that is, their request is only to work. For us, then, this alone, Minister, suggests but also at the same time proves the fiasco of this government, but at the end of the day, not only to the children and parents who use this hospital, but also to the whole of the National Health System. We believe that the moment they strike to be entitled to work, the government's deep hidden intention to privatise part and ultimately the whole of our national health system is revealed. Merra25, Minister, from the outset we supported both the lockdowns and vaccinations and all the first choices of your government and, in particular, vaccination with all our forces. But what were we telling you, Minister? We told you from the beginning, on the first day of February last year, that separate centres should be set up for mass tests and vaccination, so that the hospitals' 'cannibalism' would not be carried out by the vaccination centres, as mathematically there would be some - pandemic we are facing - such needs. Your government, however, follows the steps of the Samara - Georgian Government that, if you remember, the hospitals were closed back then with the first memorials. Now, in our opinion, the government again comes to close a jewellery hospital in favour of private and oligarchy parasites. I really hope that your word will be respected and that you will not proceed with it. But be careful today, Mr. Varoufakis was there, he went to stand up to them and be informed by them. The employees told him that they were informed that the region would inform them next Friday if the hospital had on-call again. You just told us he wouldn't. Is that the answer? We need to know she won't. The other two hospitals that are now staying, i.e. the 'Saint Sophia' and the 'Saly of Sunday', have already been degraded because they are downgraded and without staff because of the twelve years of the memoranda and, of course, have dealt with all of the Lecanopod - I would remind you that five million of us live in this area - the wave of the coronary. It is impossible that the Pentelis Children will no longer be able to substitute it for the other two, because the other two actually, in our opinion, need another third to get their workload. So he's not able to get any more work. That's what I'm telling you, Minister. I would really like you not to avoid a second-guessing and an answer for what I have told you. We like your commitment that it will not close and will continue to inspect at the latest six weeks, but after so many doctors' pensions in 12 years and after so many dead in the last two years from COVID and pandemic, and on the occasion of our question, we would like to ask you - and we do not do so in opposition - to finally commit yourself as Minister of a responsible government, to having permanent recruitment of doctors and health workers in the ESS. Do you know what you've been saying all this time, and you and your predecessor? You say "We have now taken ten thousand and in due course we will judge how many and whom of us will be permanent". But I've told you before, Minister, if you don't like them with the popular pressure now that we have eighty and a hundred dead a day, what deserted citizen can believe that you will do so in an eternity, then when no one will press you and above all will not force you on the popular feeling? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u8	I mean, the last thing to talk about, and just with numbers about what's going on, not about what we've hired. I will tell you for now, for 2022, we have the notice for the four thousand nursing staff posts directed at these people that you say, nine hundred other medical staff posts and already - we are in agreement - at least seven hundred medical staff posts. These are for within 2022 with the possibility that there may also be job increases, if necessary. But these notices are already being prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u9	Will they be permanent?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, for permanent posts. The ones I told you are standing notices. We are not talking about ancillary staff. And, in fact, there is the whole discussion of the prediction of increased moleculosis and there will be, but it will be compatible with our Constitution and the thoughts of the Council of State for those who have been in this very difficult period in the system and who are in it. So, above all, these people will be able to find themselves in the notices in a not to say a privileged position, because the term 'private position' refers to issues that may be contrary to equality, but to assess the reality that at the difficult time they were in the system. There are four thousand nursing posts, nine hundred other staff, seven hundred doctors and further notices. So let's go to our piece. I understand - I saw the Pentelis Children - and I fully respect the doctors, and what you say is true. And, indeed, in the discussions we have had, we have tried to find a solution. We do not think there will be any malfunction. I want to be honest with you. Apparently there is. I understand that there are also parents who will be forced on the two on-calls who would go elsewhere. In the system, and as children's hospitals have shown, we have fortunately no particular problem. They will be able to respond. I understand it's a suffering. But it's a temporary suffering, it's a temporary hospital malfunction with on-calls, and here we'll be judging. It was very important that the vaccination arm in the ages, because, Mr Gregoriadis, the particular thing is that we are talking about ages five to eleven. So it was not so easy to develop different vaccination units, as has been done with the Great, which exist and are addressed to the Greek population. And because we are now basically a year after the vaccination programme, I would like, with reference to the rest of my time, to see some evidence to see that and difficult decisions, which have been made, were decisions that have been made. And why am I saying that? The requirement is that those who have not been vaccinated should not be regarded as vaccinated by those who have not been vaccinated, or by those who have not been vaccinated, or by those who have not been vaccinated in the seven-month period, as well as by another set of efforts that have started since 1 September, because then the measures, as well as the promotional measures that have been taken, and the information and mobile units which have come out, have all this work been effective and these results have to be seen at some point to see whether or not the measures are effective. So I say: on 31 August, which had no obligation until then, we had eleven million three hundred and eighty thousand vaccinations. Today, 1 January we have eighteen million five hundred ninety-one, plus four million two hundred thirty with a commemorative dose. We are first in Europe in a commemorative dose because we have made the choice to open in the quarter. How does that work out? On August 31, 57% were vaccinated population even with one dose, 54% in total and 66% in adults with one dose, 63% in total. Today, 17 January, 72.5% in the general population is at least one dose and 69% have completed its vaccination. And to adults, who are very critical because of the adults we have the pressure on the National Health System, 83% has even done one dose and 78.5% have completed its vaccination. At more than sixty, with this requirement that we had a rise of two and a half points totalling two and a half points in the population and almost ten points in the population. From 80% to over sixty we've reached 90%. So I say this because vaccination is being discussed, but let us see that, from 1 September to today, compulsory measures have also been applied, the vaccinations have increased 15 units. And today once they have been completed, Mr Grigoriades and colleagues, as the first ones do and the second one, we will go through the European Union's average, when the summer - to remind you - was here the criticism because we are so back in vaccination. So the decisions of compulsoryity and all the other decisions that were in existence, from the result, increased the vaccination coverage, and today we are from the countries that are moving on the average and above the average of the European Union and we are still targeting it. I am saying this to the specific question - and I conclude, Mr President - because within this framework of choice and fully aware of the criticism that is being made - and I want to be honest, I will never say that it is absurd to criticism, it may be too much because there is fear and I come here to disprove what you have said - and in this design we considered that at the age of five to eleven it is also at the present time that the particular population of our children is quickly vaccinated and soon, very soon, and without any malfunction, the Pentelis will return to normality, its function.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you both. We are now moving on to the fourth with number 285/10-1-2022, a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "WHITE We are missing the results of the Epidemiological Study for a year". The question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, do you understand what's happened at the Gender HYTA? Do you realize that the Ministry approved the environmental conditions without using the elements of the epidemiological study? Did you approve operating conditions without recognising the problem for this place that has been in operation since the 1960s - we have now exceeded sixty years of operation - with the major health problems it creates? And did you refuse to use the epidemiological study as a basis for approval or rejection, as should environmental conditions? I have asked repetitive questions about this issue. Until first, your Government and your predecessors told me that it was COVID and they are stalling the evidence of epidemiological and 'what to do'. Now you don't even keep the pretexts. What are you telling us? A committee has been set up consisting of members of the EDNA and the Attica Region, which is studying, codifying the outcome of the study - listen to why! - so that it can be correctly reflected - that is, the study was not right on its own, and the committee will correct it - and respond to the reality. Who is this committee? How does it encode the results? What does it mean to ‘reflect properly and respond to reality’? Is it actually going to interfere? Why is this study not made public? Why do you decide to perpetuate this crime right there in the Bridge, in the lives of the people of western Athens and West Attica without making public what are the consequences of the chronic operation? We're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, in order to avoid mistaken impressions, I should like to mention, Mr Colleague, before any clarification of the epidemiological study of the NCA, the Special Inter-State Association of Attica, namely, that, firstly, the Environmental Licensing Department has fully complied with the statutory environmental authorisation procedure for HYTA in the Western Race. Subsequently, on a recommendation from that address, the relevant environmental approval decision was issued as referred to in your timely question. With regard to the epidemiological study to which you refer, according to the relative GDP there, the results of this study will be submitted to the Ministry of Health for approval and evaluation. Also, as mentioned in the environmental impact study, on the basis of which the above GDP was adopted, the epidemiological survey was not completed at the time the ICM was drawn up. However, this is not the case, that is, the non-issuance of the epidemiological survey, which is not an improper factor in the publication of GDP, where in essence all the necessary conditions and restrictions designed both to protect the environment and human health, which, in the established and documented view of the competent authority, namely the Ministry's Environmental Authorisation Directorate, are sufficient for the above purpose. However, we are and will be alert to any optimal adaptation to public health, as well as to environmental protection issues. Since it is judged by the results of this epidemiological study, following the assessment and approval by the Ministry of Health, that there is a need to impose additional conditions and restrictions, there will, of course, be a similar recommendation for the modification of the GDP, the project and its inclusion. I would also like to say, in the last part of your first question, that, of course, because of the prior pandemic, the COVID-19, and the reasonable inability to complete the study within the initial deadlines due to the restrictive measures taken to avoid spreading the coronary, the deadline for delivery of the study was extended by decisions of the competent organ, the EDNA, which has, of course, also been done in other cases with regard to the time-limits set before the pandemic appears. The study has been completed recently. The EDNA has submitted the Environmental Impact Study file to the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, and in turn the relevant department has started processing the data on the Environmental Impact Study and will take appropriate action accordingly. Let us say that at the second regular meeting of the Special Inter-State Liaison Committee of the Attica Prefecture, that is to say tomorrow, on 18-12022, the presentation of the epidemiological survey will take place and, of course, the presentation will also take place on the date mentioned above. As far as the second question is concerned, I shall return to my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the study started in December 2017 and should have surrendered in December 2019. The extension granted as a result of the pandemic did not exceed 2020. Now we're in 2022. I do not even know whether an extension has been officially granted to date. In fact, I'm sure it wasn't given and you just let it get away. Of course, after everything has been approved, you may even tell us what happened in the study. However, I have an essential question. In 2019 we had the preliminary results. Why did the preliminary results not be used in the permit of environmental conditions for the Gender CYTA? Why did they not contact the study scientists to make use of the essential results we all know they were ready? It reminds me of the study of 'ASPROFOS'. For those who do not know, ‘ASPROFOS’ is a subsidiary of ELPE, ‘ELLENIC PETRIC’, it is doing the studies of ‘ELELANDS PETRELAYA’ and had undertaken the study of pollutants for the Municipality of Phyllis. Except that this study was delivered in 2017 and was not published until I and the West Front have repeatedly brought the government here, and we filed with the Citizens' Counselor a complaint against the mayor, the Coordinator of Decentralised Government. At the same time, we asked for this study in other ways, and it was finally made public. This took two years, as many years as the epidemiological study is in practice. Recently, I visited the Trinity for the third time, and for the second time I walked him from point to point. I'm avoiding being tempted to ask you if you've ever been to the Gender Crystal. So, we found this huge sludge crater in the Flood HYTA. The people who were with us from the Municipality of Phylis, as well as from western Athens, from Petroupoli, which stinks every summer and people can't get on their balcony, but from other regions, they told us that every day in their homes what they smell is the smell of the bleach. What are you gonna do? Will this finally be restored? I made a complaint with the West Front again with the Environment Inspectors. They're taking us from Anna to Kaiafa. On the basis of your latest legislation, with which you dismantle environmental inspectors, we are told that it is the region's responsibility, and on the other hand, the region is sending us back to environmental inspectors. We're not getting a reply. I'm a MP and I'm moving the procedures and I'm not getting an answer. If I had not been elected and continued to exercise my rights as a citizen, I would have no chance, Minister. You cover up this crime in the Race over and over. You want to extend this crime over and over again. We are finally waiting for the evidence of the epidemiological study. We expect you to withdraw your licenses and we expect you to shut down the HYTHATA Violence, finally to recycle by sorting at the source, to substantially reduce their waste and landfill locally, wherever possible, and, where it is not possible, to directly from a municipality to a municipality with its neighboring municipalities. We are waiting for Phyllis, West Athens and West Attica to be the warehouse for unwanted activities of this city and of this country. We ask for self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u17	Yes, sir. Minister, because Mr Arsenis said that the people of the Gender are suffering during the summer months, I note that we had the same phenomenon, this smell, which has led children to the hospital, and to Petroupoli - Mr Arsenis knows it, I am sure - a few days ago. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u18	So as far as the epidemiological study is concerned, Mr President, I would like to say that the results of this study will of course be evaluated. In particular, the GDP of the installation provides that, within six months of its adoption, the assessment of the study should be completed and the results obtained should, of course, be included in the decision approving environmental conditions and amended. From there on, as I mentioned very soon, that is to say tomorrow, the results of this study will be presented to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Let us also say - I have already answered this - that you know that in the last two years we have this great pandemic problem which has led to the delay in completing the study. This does not mean, however, that its effects, whatever they may be, will not be taken into account for the modification of GDP. For Petroupoli, Mr President, let me tell you that my parents live there, so I know very well about any problems they experience in everyday life too. That is why we, as a government, must tell you that we have developed a comprehensive strategy to resolve the problem of urban waste management in Attica, but also throughout Greece, because we have received a situation where for five years nothing has happened on the substance. Remember what had happened in Corfu and others and in Rhodes, where there were thousands of tons of waste which unfortunately disintegrated under the sun. Of course, this has been done in the past five years and also in the last five years before the current government, so that we can finally get out and get the water back into the dirt so that we can manage the waste in such a way that it will, of course, obey the European rules on the fivefold issue: a reduction, a repetition, recovery, recycling and, of course, the end of the burial. But that is now beginning to happen. Too many modern waste treatment plants have been auctioned throughout Greece that had not been auctioned in previous years. That takes a while. In the meantime, we are doing everything possible in terms of incentives, but also in terms of counter-incentives, such as the burial fee, to help everyone and local authorities to get more recycling at the source, to change the culture that we have as a society for managing our waste, because waste is not waste. They can be used as raw materials, they can be the trigger for a circular economy, so that we can safely protect the wealthy sources of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. We move to the second, with number 286/10-1-2022, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Energy symbol: an essential shield against the deaths of fumes and energy impoverishment". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on December 14th, two children of twelve and thirteen years died in Cameroon, West Athens, from fumes and from fire to heating body. On December 24th, in the same area, five were taken to the hospital for the same reason. Overall, in 2021, we had more urban fires by 70% above, 84% increase compared to 2010-2020. Firefighting - and I have here Mr Gurbatsi's statements - says that the high heating cost is most likely to lead these victims to the use of clipboards and therefore unsafe heaters, since it was almost for economic reasons forbidden, that is, they were unable to have access to safe means such as central heating. It is also estimated that in the winter months of 2022 the number of deaths will be ejected. Already the first week of 2022, we've reached the three people losing their lives. Again in West Athens, in the Municipality of Ilios, there has been an initiative, which I have supported with parliamentary questions in this Chamber and your predecessor in particular had promoted these ideas and thought it would be unblocked. It is the energy pool, the ability of the municipalities to go to households that are unable to pay their bills, and even worse they have debts and they have been cut off and the municipality has a connection, so that the city can give a minimum guaranteed amount of daily energy, so that people can make basics, cook, wash, read children, basics for life. Then, with Mr Thomas, he had promised that the matter would be resolved. We had indeed congratulated the government. And now we see that PPC does back and says "I, if the old household accounts are not paid, do not allow the municipality" - another person - "to make a connection with this household". The energy stack is not only required to unblock, but it is required to be co-financed and extended to all the municipalities in the country at this time where we are in such energy impoverishment. I really want you to tell us what this new blockage is from the side of PPC, because the new stumbling blocks, and if you commit to strengthening this programme to extend it to all the municipalities in the country. We need it. We have the most expensive power right now throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will inform you, because you have obviously not been informed of what the government has done in recent years. Indeed, we have repeatedly announced that we created and created a telephone number, an emergency telephone line, in 15902. A household in which electricity has been cut off can call this number, in the emergency number 15902, energy solidarity, and if it is, of course, a household that is in a difficult financial situation on the basis of objective criteria, the reconnection of the household by electricity is immediately made, the reconnection of the household is paid by the Energy Transfer Fund the reconnection costs and the full or part of the debt is paid. In particular, for debts of up to EUR 6 000, the entire debt from the Energy Transfer Fund, by the state, is paid for the debts of that household. For total household debt from EUR 6,000 to EUR 9,000 a one-off payment is made of 75% of the debt from there and above, i.e. 100% to EUR 6,000, 75% from EUR 6,000 to EUR 9,000 and, in fact, only 50% of the debt and over EUR 12,000 to 30% of the debt. So what has the government done? It has gone much further than what you said. It has already set a mechanism that is too flexible, too fast. A household calls in 15902, since its electricity supply has been cut off. The request is immediately transmitted by the employees there to the municipality concerned and the municipality concerned, at their request to the DEDDIE to make the re-emission of this household. Specifically, a few days ago, in Patisia, in an apartment where an elderly concierge lived, and even with 95% disability and blind, according to her daughter's so-called daughter, there was such an event. We are, of course, investigating why the cut-off is being made. Immediately, however, they took this five-digit number - 15902-, and within two hours it reconnected that house and so a solution was given. In fact, the old lady was also a oxygen user. So, you see we're standing next to the households, they're in particular need. I do not need to tell you now, in my dentistry, about all we have so far done to support as far as possible the households which are actually being put out of this explosive rise in electricity prices in Europe, of course and Greece by extension. Up to now EUR 1.7 billion has been allocated and will be made available for the month of January, so that we can support households in the face of increases in electricity and gas increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I obviously know this declaration. I didn't come here without having studied the matter. You are, in fact, giving up to 6,000 euros and a partial coverage rate above. Do you have a picture of how people live today? The man you're going to pay him the electricity bill and come to him for the next account, do you have the impression that he'll be able to pay him? You did well! We are talking about debt write-offs at all levels. Do you have an image, however, that next month these people will be in the same condition? There are people where the electricity has reached them who can't afford to pay their bill alone. We're talking about business, if we go out a little bit, where electricity has a higher cost than labour. We've arrived here and you think you solved the problem with one single cover? You need to activate other essential tools. We need the energy pool, we need the minimum guaranteed amount of electricity for each household. You must stop PPC - where in practice you still appoint the administration, despite its privatisation - and you must ask them to allow the power to connect through municipalities to these households, even when there are debts and when they are created in future debts. Unblock the energy pile, boost the economy, strengthen the municipalities to spread it everywhere. It's a tool we need. It is not enough to have one-off values. For the same reason, it is like telling me again that this is a temporary phenomenon. You cannot speak, even design, in terms of transientity. You told us one, you told us two, you revoked it, you tell us that this is an international phenomenon. We continue to see twice as much prices from Germany and other countries. However, prices in other countries have recently fallen. They come up to us all the time. But all that is certain is that the phenomenon is not transient. We need to design social policy tools. Our energy complex is absolutely essential and I invite you to commit to unblocking the energy symmetry from PPC and also for the financial support of the municipalities so that they can give this minimum guaranteed amount of energy to all the households that need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u26	You can understand, Mr President, that what you are asking for does not solve the problem of heating a house with which electricity is cut off, because if there is indeed a meter that gives few kilowats a day to operate a kitchen and a fridge, that is not enough to heat the house by using a heating body that has much greater consumption. So we do not want to let the houses, the families in the heart of winter freeze, and that is why we are coming and reconnecting the household that has been cut off from its power supply and which is in financial difficulty. This is not for anyone, it is for those who really have difficulty in dealing with the cost and payment of a power bill. Reconnect the household, pay the reunion costs, and pay the entire debt up to 6,000 euros and a percentage of the debt from there on. Of course, for these households who are in a difficult financial situation, do not forget that there is a social invoice, which gives a discount of up to 70% on the electricity bill and, in particular, on those households, the beneficiaries of a social invoice, we absorb almost 90% of the increase, which is shown in the account by means of the adjustment clause. That is why there is special provision for paying and subsidizing electricity much more, for increasing electricity, so that they are not in the very bad state to be able to pay the bill of energy. From there on, I must tell you that Greece is the country that has given most of the money to support households and businesses. In January, we will give EUR 400 million. It is most of the money depending on the country's population and the economic size of our economy. We are currently supporting households, all regardless of whether or not, the main dwellings, and we are all supporting businesses by paying for 50% of the cost increase, so that we can help them survive and maintain jobs and, of course, not pass it on to their products, to their services and thus not create inflationary pressures and even more precision. It is a fact that you know absolutely - and you should say it - that it is a global event, it is not because of Greece. We have an explosive increase in gas prices in Europe and around the planet. This has lured electricity and unfortunately does not seem to deviate, at least in the first quarter of 2022. But we are the first country, Greece and the Greek Government, which created the Energy Transfer Fund there, which has money from the sale of carbon dioxide rights, greenhouse emissions and the surplus of the special account of renewable energy - because today producing energy from the sun or wind is five and six times higher than producing energy from lignite or from natural gas - is what we are using to support households and businesses that are so in need of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u27	Now we will discuss the fifth under number 301/10-1-2022, the second-round question by the MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros-Christou Aylonitis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The quartz-band function of Corfu". The Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u28	Minister, I believe you've visited Corfu. In the heart of northern Corfu and in the foothills of the Almighty mountain range is from the junta period a sloppy wound. There the quarries have been operating since then, with lasting illegal activities, and the entire institutional framework of Corfu, municipal councils, district, etc. It is for the national court to determine, in the light of the foregoing, whether the conditions laid down in Article 6(1) of Regulation No 1408/71 are fulfilled. It has been built on a front perpendicular to a hundred and fifty to two hundred meters, so macroscopically, as you see it. Rehabilitation is impossible, because such a restoration, i.e. scalable, actually goes to neighboring property, not to say that it will eat all the next mountain. However, while we have dealt with the whole issue so much, permits have been granted to restore the operation of the quarry and these permits - as the inhabitants and we see - are normally operating the quarries, three numbers, mining, selling. The region over the last ten years, perhaps even longer, has been making an effort to identify the quarry area and - to the miracle! - this quarantine area is identified on the top side of the front, in the same area, and recently, in the summer, it was authorized to extract, quarry, or mining, in other words, inert materials and all seem to be lawful. However, it does not appear that five hundred meters from there will be built the great work of the dams that there is the big reservoir, the big dam. This is all done before the eyes of the governments, the institutions, your ministries. And so I come as a humble Member of the Ionian Islands Region of Corfu - for my Ionian Islands Party - and I ask you to investigate, find out what I am saying and ask you today with this question to say to me: what are you going to do? If this is practically possible, if the quarries are legally operated and if they use this permit, if the quartz zone identified as such there, but also the license granted is legal and in any event, how is it compatible with the process of building the dams which are close and within five hundred metres of the place where the quarries are operating and which have been licensed. I think I am quite clear. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, thank you for the question. It should be clarified that the public administration has a structure and hierarchy and that, of course, the authorisation procedure for monitoring and monitoring environmental conditions is carried out by the competent body, the competent authority and others. As you quite rightly said, these are issues relating to local government of the first and second degrees. In the present case, both the process of authorising the quarries and the procedure for the definition of quarries have been fully decentralised since 1984 and have been entrusted to the relevant decentralised administration and the region respectively. Obviously, it is not possible, as you can see, for the Minister to intervene arbitrarily and for the procedures to be circumvented. According to the relevant information from the Ionian Islands Region, it emerges that: firstly, the three old quarries in the Tribeta area of northern Corfu have closed down and are located - as you quite rightly said - in the restoration phase of the relief that has been created. The competent department of the Decentralised Administration of the Peloponnese, Western Greece and Ionian Islands supervises the progress of these operations. In addition, the Department of the Environment of the Ionian Islands, at the request of the companies, who are obliged to submit a complete topographical version of the progress of the restoration work every six months, confirms that after on-the-spot inspection their rehabilitation rate is specific and sends a reference to the service of the decentralised administration, as it does. During the recovery phase of the relief made by mechanical means rather than explosives, products are created in accordance with the approved study, and therefore it is obvious that the products from these excavations that are properly promoted in the domestic market of inert materials and I think this is self-evident. Now, with regard to the second request you have put to the establishment of a new quartz zone within a short distance from the old quarries to be restored and closed, I would like to inform you that the committee set up by the Ionian Islands Region has taken into account the need for domestic materials, which will meet the needs for the projects of the Kyrgyra Regional Unit for the next few years and that there are no other areas on the island of Corfu that meet the conditions laid down in the existing legislation. Also, in particular, the relevant Advisory Committee in its 23-11-2020 recommendation to the Regional Director of Ionian Islands recommended the non-determination of a quarry area on a public scale, after finding that there is not yet a ceremonial title of ownership in the area Pelida of the Regional Unit of Kerkyra - which will be examined following final judicial decisions - and the determination of a quarantine area to a private extent of sixty-five acres in the location of Kakotrafos Sokrakio of the municipality of Faiakos, the Municipality of Central Corfu, at the request of the company concerned. The relevant thematic counter-region decision was then adopted setting out the designated lato area in the position of Kakotrafos Sokraki. Let us say that here, of course, the relevant Advisory Committee has taken into account and are in line with what it has done with the existing legislation on the location of the quartz area, as well as the specificities of the site due to insularity, together with the urgent need to ensure quality inert materials. The issue is, Mr President, of course, to protect the environment and the local society, but also to find an area that can fulfil the provisions of the existing legislation and use it for the benefit of local society, because you understand that the introduction, transport and transport of energy from areas outside Corfu will greatly increase the cost of work on the island and ultimately that will be paid by the people of Corfu. So, yes, we are with you in finding an area that can take advantage of it to the good of local society. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I think I was clear. All that the Minister has mentioned is all I have in response to my request. I know the whole history. You are talking to a man, Minister, who has needed a prefecture counsellor in 1998 and since 1998 has seen the same problems and it is the last time you said that we need as Corfu, as an island, cheap building materials because we produce them in our country. We all aim there. After a study, it was found that in the wider area of the Pantorora mountain range there are many points from which the mineral, what we use, can be extracted from the inert materials for the building of Corfu. I told you something else. I told you that today there are specific permits that have been granted to rehabilitate, I told you that the deeds are three times as high as Parliament's House, that it is not practically possible to do so. With these permits they extract inert material that they sell - and they do well - a new license is given at the top of the greenery and just next door will be built the dam that will water Corfu. And you answer me other than others. So I ask you: do you, as Minister, order the competent services to go on the spot and see if the person speaking to you today tells you nonsense or is it a reality that is seen by the naked eye? I ask you in very simple terms to investigate whether what I am saying is true and you tell me that we need inert materials. Of course, a hundred times I'll say that we need inert materials. I do not understand why it needs to be done where forty years the Corfiot people have been struggling to close the quarries and not to go more than five hundred metres. The Almighty mountain range and the area of Iston, the historical Heston, is a mile [km]. Why did this study, which was given, not exclude the deserved area shown by the moon? Because just under the leeks, where the permit was granted, the quarries are legally operating in the way I mentioned to you. Do you think everything I'm saying is nonsense, when I ask you to investigate and tell me what is recorded? I'm clear, then. I would ask you, in view of the need to protect the environment, to close or, in any case, not to continue to grow this greedy wound, to find itself directly in the wider mountain range of the Pan-State area, which is characterised as a latitude, to stop the region being affected and, in any case, to protect the future survival - the credits are already committed - the people's demand that the solution to the water problem of Corfu be solved by the construction of the roadblock project, which will be the largest of the two on the edge of this mountain range, which is close to the quarry that has already been authorised and to the quarries that are already in operation in the non-legal way I have told you before. I think I can't be clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u34	Of course, Mr President, I should like to say that you may be aware of them, but I have to inform the House as an answer to the question you have asked, because that is not what all the Members and the House of Greece cannot know. I therefore welcome and inform you that people will have an opinion on what is going on there and that we are in part in agreement with the answer I have given. I must tell you that, of course, as far as the dam is concerned, it must be done so that we can use the water potential that is lost today and which is missing, sometimes we are drowned and sometimes we are lacking. In winter he drowns us, in summer he's gone. From there, of course, you should be aware that when a dam is built or auctioned, construction and contravention are made expropriated in the regions, and I think that all this will have been taken into account in the decision approving environmental conditions which the dam has so that its tender can finally be integrated and proceeded. From there, I have to tell you that, of course, I will look at what you are saying further, to see if any irregularities occur, even though these agencies say that all measures have been taken to protect and control activities there. However, you are doing well and you are asking, and we will be able to deal with this. As far as the new location is concerned, the report states that there are no prohibitions in terms of the legislative framework for placement for the new area you are requesting due to distance, specific town plans or other buildings, renewable energy sources and public works of general interest, such as the dam you are referring to. So they've taken it into consideration. That's what the report from the agency says.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u35	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u36	But we will look into it again. The Committee has therefore taken into account the nearest settlements and houses, as well as the minimum distances to be observed in accordance with Article 85 of the Code of Mining and Quarrying Works to determine the area as quartz. That is what the competent authority expressly defines. The conclusion is that the safety, health of our fellow citizens and the rational and rational exploitation of resources is a multi-dimensional objective that our Government has shown in practice that it serves primarily with respect to the current legislative framework but also with the possibility of flexibility in any new treaty required. That is why our priority is to protect our unique environmental wealth and to fully respect legality and we have shown that neither of us agree to make discounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u37	The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: ‘Under the Agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture’. We move to the sixth Question No 287/10-1-2022 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Urgent intervention for Ancient Wall Demas, Lager Fortification and Polikilos Mounts". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Styliani Mendoni. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have to call you back to plenary on the issue of archaeological sites in West Athens and Attica. The reason is that the more we look at the details, the more impressive the abandonment of West Athens and Attica is. It's really like it's for the government - and in general for the governments - a place of deposition of unwanted activities. We spoke in detail in previous times about Dema, about this large wall of protection of the city of Athens, four and a half kilometres long. In the Dema, which has been declared an archaeological site, there are facilities that are adjacent to the wall and which, if not removed, threaten the monument itself, the archaeological site itself. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] You repeat your answers, of course, always and constantly for the other monuments you have not preached. You say that they are automatically proclaimed on the basis of law because of antiquity. You know very well that there is nothing to do with declaring a single monument with a set that can proceed to zone A, absolute protection, zone B and so on. I shall refer to such monuments. With regard to all the monumental walls and fortifications of the city from the west, we have in Poikilo's Shepherds at the height of Kastiza the so-called Lager Fort. It is a very large fortress, which is related to the wall of the Dema, while adjacently, at the top of Poikilo on the Zacharitsa hill and then on the Tamburi roof, we have two toasts. Of the many ruined fortifications here we have two partially standing. None of these two, either the Lager or the Fortifications, have been declared archaeological sites. We therefore ask you to commit to proclamation of archaeological sites. Don't tell me again, Minister, about monuments. They're more comprehensive in consistency with each other. Also, to protect the declared archaeological site of the Dimas from the activities that are incompatible with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MEP, the course of the Demas wall, as has already been recorded since the 19th century, has been included in the declaration and delimitation with coordinates of the archaeological site since 2013. As a preached archaeological site it is registered in the Archaeological Register. Also, Demas is located in zone D of Mount Aegaleo. Parts of the ancient wall were damaged, due to the execution of earlier technical works, already in the 1920s, by the construction of the Athens-Peloponnese railway line, as well as in the 1950s and 1970s, by the opening of the Athens-Assuppression highway, the construction of a Mornos canal, the placement of PPC's gates in the old landfill of Athens in 1962 and the limestonery in 1968. This was done without any information and supervision of the relevant Archaeological Service at the time. Due to the declaration in 2013, the removal of installations located within the demarcation zone is now facilitated and is not consistent with the nature of the monuments. In the period 2015 to 2019, no action was taken to restore this monumental site. Today, the Ministry's competent West Attica Ombudsman has launched a series of projects. First, it systematically cooperates with the Municipality of Florida to deforestation and cleansing the wall, while taking the necessary steps to remove building and earthmoving material from the surrounding wall from the municipality or from other bodies. On 29 April 2021, the Municipality of Florida presented a study of restoration measures for the fixing and promotion of the wall. At the moment, the process of drawing up a programming contract for cultural development is being completed in order to implement this study. For the lime mill, which operates at Zofria-Tower in the Municipality of Florida, it is scheduled on January 25th, that is, next week, to examine the submitted environmental impact study by the Central Archaeological Board. As I said before, the plant is located in zone D of Mount Aegaleo. Buildings existing with town permits and which under the provisions of the above law are not prohibited for 30 years after its publication, however within the framework of the environmental impact assessment will be examined by the Central Archaeological Council, which will deliver an opinion on this. The planning of taxiage for 2022 has included the construction and installation of signs for the public, of direction and information, and, as I had informed you in the previous debate on the subject, there are all relevant information, plans and photographs about the monument. Moreover, the wall area is systematically being autopsied by officials from the relevant department to check the condition of the monument, precisely because of the specific nature and all other problems surrounding it. Now, the Lager Fort is located in zone A of the mountainous volume of Aegaleo, which is defined as an area of absolute protection. It allows the establishment of recreational stands or the construction of works of general interest to secure flora and fauna, technical infrastructure, that is to say, which - at all times under the supervision of the operator - seem to not pose any particular problems in the service itself. Finally, the monument is automatically protected by Law 3028 or Law 4858. It is, however, also indirectly protected against the above defined specific land uses of the declared landscaped natural beauty of the mountainous volume of Aegaleo. Finally, the fortress structures which exist on the map 6, the Kurds and Caperts, be it a building of antiquity with supervisory, defensive or other similar characters, or a fortification of works of 1826 - 1827, and which are self-protected on the basis of the legislation in force. The Western Attica Antiquities Department makes every effort to protect these monuments. Their image has changed especially in recent years. And, as I told you last time, we have complete confidence in our inventions that they are doing their job properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, unfortunately I see you returning to the question of automatic declaration of monuments. I have to ask you a question that is not even archaeological but common sense. Are you saying that we have in the same zone a huge wall, fortresses and a fortress, all in the west of Athens city? You estimate everything is about the 4th century. And all this isn't total? And you're gonna protect them individually, a little bit, a little bit? It's like taking the China Wall and telling us that, because every tower works on its own, it doesn't have to be declared by the Chinese archaeological service. It's a single set, Minister. You should be able to understand it. It's a single set. Let me just tell you something simpler. It's a single set in a public space. Poikilo and Aegaleo are forest areas where the property of the public is owned. What prevents you from making this single archaeological site? You're telling us that the Lager Fort is protected by Parnitha's order of protection. Is that possible? Do you consider the protection of archaeological monument to be within a forest or a protected area? Is it possible to tell us this as Minister of Culture? Since when are monuments protected by environmental legislation? Since when are archaeological monuments protected by environmental legislation? Tell us to ask the Minister of the Environment next time. We invite you to deal with this single area. They are the ancient defensive works of the city of Athens. There are other spaces. You will oblige me to resubmit any more time-consuming questions. There are too many places, both in Aigaleo and Poikilo, which are unprotected. Why don't you move on to protect this area? To archaeological protection. Naturally, it is the work of the Ministry of the Environment. And I have asked a question there and they are committed to making progress in proclamation as a regional park, without any result, of course. I ask you and the services to initiate immediately the process of declaring a single archaeological site in Poikilo and Aegaeos and the wider area of the fortification works of Athens from its western side, where he accepted the invasions from the main opponent of the ancient city of Athens, Sparta. And that's why these monuments are so important.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, you are obviously in difficulty to understand the archaeological legislation. First of all, you used the word "automatic" declaring the monument. Automatic declaration doesn't exist. There's self-righteous proclamation. And if you bother to read the spatial arrangements of Law 3028, you will see that by 1830 the monuments are automatically protected. That may not satisfy you. But that is what legislation says. And, believe me, this law has been judged at European Union level, and not only, as a law that fully protects our cultural heritage and is far more advanced than corresponding legislation of other European or Mediterranean states. If you read Article 10 of the Act a little more carefully, you will see that, apart from the individual monument, their environment is automatically protected. If, therefore, all these circles of protection unite, there is no need for further proclamation for monuments that date back to 1830. Environmental legislation does not cover archaeological protection. Archaeological protection is fully satisfied by Law 3028 and code 4858 of 2021, which in essence codifies archaeological legislation. Environmental legislation, for which, in any case, it does not just give its opinion, but in substance requires the assent of the Ministry of Culture and the Minister of Culture. Where there are absolute protection zones, even environmentally, the protection of archaeological legislation is strengthened. That is not what I say, the laws say, the explanatory statement by L. 3028 of 2002. It is a series of decisions of the Council of State which are already case-law. From there on, as I have told you in your previous questions, the Ministry of Culture, at least in the last two and a half years, has given the West Attica special weight, especially because of Elefsina, which will be a cultural capital in 2023. After that, as we said a few weeks ago, the Antiquities Executive performs a systematic work to promote, maintain and promote the ancient Holy Way. The projects within the archaeological site of Elefsina, which were not in substance advanced until September 2019, are now progressing rapidly, whether it is about completing the studies that were left behind or about archaeological interventions, but which have direct consequences in the city, since the archaeological site is in direct contact with the large square of the city and therefore has an absolute impact on the planning of the cultural capital. Also, in the development studies for the next NSRF for the first time, the studies of the churches of Saint Nicholas the Loutras Mindius, the Theotokou Communion of the Flora, Saint Antonios the Megaron, the Theotokou Cosmos and Saint Demetrius in Vilia, the cells of Osios Meletio in Kitharon and the Prophet Ilias in the Reds are carried out. Finally, I should like to inform you that, after ten years of expedition, the Ministry of Culture is in the final phase of the acquisition of the old olive mill, in order to create there an archaeological museum worthy of the historical and archaeological importance of Elefsina and its wider region. These are not all actions that the West Attica is abstract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, too, Minister. We continue with the first with number 290/10-1-2022 in the first cycle of the MP Achaias coalition of the Radical Left, Athanasia (Syria) Readstopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The Observatory silence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport (YPA)" in the incident of censorship of the theatrical performance of Christofor Zaralikos". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Nikolaos Drotronmanolakis. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me first of all to express my grief at the personal and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for the loss of a great painter, Alekos Fasianos. I also want from this Step and with this opportunity to express our gratitude for all of us, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, for the flagship work, for the way in which he taught us to see life otherwise. The Minister left for a question which does not concern modern culture in particular, freedom and democracy in art and not just in the culture of freedom and democracy, which must be protected primarily and in principle by the Ministry of Culture. The incident on Thursday, December 2nd at the "Karezis" theatre, when a group of people led by Mrs. Stamatis went up to the theatre scene and violently interrupted the theatrical performance "1821 - 2021", two hundred Years of Loan" of the state-of-the-art Christoforos Zaralikos. From the video that ran around social media, it seems clear that with trabourism and intense controversy the group of these people tried and interrupted the performance because they thought they didn't like it because they disagreed with the content of the text. The whole world reacted, institutions and associations of culture, the political world almost wholesome. However, we have not seen a statement of starry, clear from the Minister of Culture, and you will allow me to insist. I do not in any way want to degrade your role, Mr. Gyromanolakis, but it is the Ministry of Culture, and first of all it concerns the head of the Ministry. We did not have a clear position in defence of culture, freedom. However, because last year, in another instance, we had seen the Minister and the Ministry trying to protect the reputation of an actor, despite the fact that there was a surname complaint against him for felony acts, because we see the phenomena of censorship and unliberality dense, because we see the phenomena of a culture of fear that is not just about culture anymore, but about culture densely, because we see the accounts of artists - Kraunakis, Akritas, Akritas, various people - because we also see information being persecuted by journalists - Vataxvanis, Papadakou, etc. - I want to ask one thing. At least from here, from the Step of the House, Mr. Doctor, you and the Minister themselves will clearly condemn, at least in culture, the phenomena of censorship, freedom and the obstruction of freedom of art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Madam President. To begin with, and to join with the voice of Ms. Anagnostopoulos, and to express my grief and personal and political leadership of the Ministry of Culture, as well as of the government as a whole, for the loss of Alekos Fasianos. It was an emblematic form of visuals. It was a form that brought far closer together and made artistic art much more familiar to the Greeks, without undermining the high value of his artistic work. It was a great form and he's left behind a huge deposit. Now, as regards the question raised, I would like to make it clear what the position of the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture is. The position is that freedom of expression, speech and art are unnegotiable principles and any action contrary to this freedom is condemnable. I say this very clearly from the Step of the House, but I must say that this is not the first time I have said it by expressing the Ministry of Culture. The first time I said it was on the same day that the incident was announced, namely on December 2, 2021. In fact I wrote: 'Free speech, speech and art are unnegotiable principles'. Here's the post. Then, on 15 December, again on the occasion of the burning of books in Chalkida, another equally unpleasant and problematic - let me say the term - incident, which in its own way threatens freedom of expression and speech, I said: 'In recent times, on the occasion of an incident at the theatre, I said that freedom of expression, speech and art are unnegotiable principles...' and then the part of the post continues. I also reiterated this in a television interview I gave on 21 December on the 'Evening Report' broadcast from the 'Action 24' television station, which I said for a moment, saying something else: 'This is generally the case for freedom of speech and freedom of expression. Any move, whether I'm burning a book or I'm going in and interrupting a show, all these are phenomena that we have to put aside, because for freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of art, there are no discounts. They are unnegotiable and the line is vertical.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Doctor, for his answer. Indeed, I had read your tweet to interrupt the performance of Zaralikos. Of course the tweet came down quickly, but it doesn't change the fact that even for a while it went up. The issue is the Ministry of Culture and the heads of the Ministry. It is a bad, alpine impression that the Minister has left and has preferred not to answer that question. Do we have an official announcement? The Ministry of Culture is primarily responsible for protecting not only freedom in culture, but also the culture of freedom in a society of democracy and openness. I will not refer to older, older or older ministers. I will not refer to the categorical reaction, the expression of the sadness and frustration of the then Minister of Culture, the late Melina Mercouris in 1988, when the one-sided court of First Instance prohibited the projection of the film "Christ is crucified". But I will read to you the announcement, the press release by Mr. Konstantinos Javara, Minister of Culture in 2012 - New Democracy Mr. Javaras - about the incidents that took place on the "Corpus Christi" theatre project in 2012. I read: "I strongly condemn yesterday's sad episodes. Art and culture are subject to their own rules, primarily to tolerance to anyone who has and expresses a different opinion or opinion. At a time when culture and art must become the antidote to the economic and social crisis, it is unacceptable to have minorities who appear as self-determined guarantors of social, aesthetic and national self-worth - as they mean it - and to try by force to undo and eliminate any contrary to their position." This is a statement that I insist that it comes from a member of the New Democracy - Minister of Culture at the time - Mr Javarra, a right-wing liberal who knows very well what these values mean. Mr. Doctor, I am very afraid of today's leadership - I am not including you, because you have indeed made statements - of the Ministry, for the Minister himself. These sensitivities, this defence of fundamental liberal values have no place at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you too, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, allow me a little clarification. It wasn't tweeted because I don't have Twitter. He was in Instagram and Facebook. It was a storage, and that's why you couldn't see it. Of course, in Instagram is still pinned on my profile and therefore any interested person can see it. And, as I said earlier, there were other posts and a television show, where all of this sounds very clear and anyone who wants to look for them. But let us go a little, if I may, to the essence of the matter. First of all, I would like to believe, Mrs Anagnastopoulou, that you consider that the Deputy Minister of Culture expresses and commits the Ministry of Culture. It's not possible you don't think so. This is not the first time that there has been a State Secretary for Culture. There have been other times. And I think you know very well - you have also been a member of the government - that all the members of the government express the government in their statements. This is not the case, therefore, there is no question of questioning freedom of speech and expression. That's something that's not true. I would like to mention that other times, performances have been interrupted. I remember attributes that in October 2017 in Thessaloniki a performance called "The Time of the Devil", was interrupted by religious organizations. I do not remember whether the Minister or the State Secretary for Culture had condemned it. I hope someone convicted it. But even if he had not condemned it, the way you mean it, in a stated phrase somewhere, I am sure that whoever it was, whoever it was, would be 100% contrary to this act. Also, if you want to focus together - and the opposition and the government - on how we prevent such movements, how we prevent such actions and how we also protect freedom of speech and of art by means of actions. I can give you two examples of what we're doing today. I think, moreover, that many times the actions speak louder. The fact that, for example, within the calls we have for the grants of modern culture, we say and promote freedom of speech, we say and promote any forms of support for vulnerable, vulnerable social groups, their rights, how we can use culture as a channel to make the citizens of the issues that these vulnerable social groups can deal with is an example of this. The fact that we do not censor - and you know very well that I myself defended small literature subsidies in the province that have an absolute freedom of speech and I was accused of that because I supported them - is again an act of support for freedom of speech and expression. Be sure, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, that the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture will protect freedom of speech throughout her entire term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign, Education and Religious Affairs and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs, tabled a draft law on 14-1-2022: "Following the agreement between the Ministry of Rural Development and Food of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Armenia on cooperation in agriculture". Secondly, the Ministers for Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, the State Ministers, the Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports submitted on 14-1-2022 a draft law: "Development Law – Greece Powerful Development". The third, with number 294/10-1-2022, is a timely question for the first cycle of MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Cosmas, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The devaluation of the sports facilities of the National Youth Sports Centre (ESAKN) St. Kosmas", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. At this point, you will allow me to take a short break until the Minister comes, who has met traffic on the road and has been a little delayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The third question will be discussed with number 296/10-1-2022 in the second question of the Chios MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Andreas Michaelides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Support for mastic growers and generally island producers’. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Stylos. Mr Michaelides has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, in reply to a question by SYRIZA MPs - Progressive Alliance submitted on my own initiative, the then Minister for Rural Development and Food, your predecessor, Mr Skrekas, announced in November 2020 the cancellation of sub-measure 8.1 of the 2014 - 2020 Rural Development Programme. The programme's name was: "Support for afforestation, forest land creation". The same fate, after all, had other forest sub-measures, as the Minister then informed. This was then the case, Minister, with strong reactions, including from the Chios Mastic Producers Association, the Chios City Council itself, which also adopted a unanimous decision on 9 December 2020 in favour of the continuation of the measure. Among other things, the decision pointed out that the implementation of the programme would contribute to the conversion of the burned areas, as well as the barren and land areas into mastics, referring to the southern part of our island, in Mastichochhoria, while at the same time multiplying the plant capital and increasing annual production, thus improving the income of the producer. Such reactions, together with the flagrant mismatch of this decision with the objective of green transition and tackling climate change - I note, for example, that the European Union had set itself the goal of the new forest strategy to plant three billion trees by 2030 across Europe - probably led the Ministry a few months ago to review its manifestly incorrect decision and to launch the relaunch of the measure. I would like to say that on my own initiative a meeting had been held at the offices of the region at the time, in the presence of the Vice-President, and this request for re-entry had been forwarded to you. To date, however, the measure has not been declared or other details have been made known for its implementation. In particular, it raises the question of whether the provision of the first amendment of the Rural Development Programme on our own government of 2017, allowing the minimum eligibility for afforestation from the five acres to be reduced to the two acres for the Aegean islands, since you know that the lots in these island areas are extremely limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u56	You must finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u57	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. Minister, I would like you to answer when the sub-measure of the reafforestation of agricultural land will be called, with what budget and with what specific forecasts for mastic producers and other producers in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, since the end of 2021, as you have insinuated in your question, with the adoption of the ninth amendment of the Rural Development Programme, sub-measure 8.1 ‘Foresting and foresting’ has been included in the Transitional Regulation 2021-2022 programme and the total expenditure of this programme amounts to EUR 89 million. This programme strengthens the protection and installation of forest planting on agricultural land and its maintenance for up to twelve years, as well as any loss of agricultural income. The aid intensity of the eligible costs is 100%, i.e. what money is needed to make this afforestation, is given, is covered by our programme. For the preparation and installation work, the maximum levels of aid have been established on the basis of public invoices, while the level of aid for maintenance and income foregone on the basis of studies carried out in each region. The minimum size eligible under afforestation is defined as five acres for Greece, with the exception of the Ionian Islands, the North and the South Aegean and Evia, where the two acres are defined, the 0,2 hectares, with the necessary condition, of course, that the minimum afforestation of agricultural land be uniform. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food has therefore done everything necessary to incorporate the sub-measure into the Programme for Rural Development in the transitional period, has established the criteria and ensure the amount needed to 'run' this programme. In relation to when the programme will be announced, I would like to tell you that according to the CYA an intermediate management body of the sub-measure has been designated the Directorate-General for Forests and Forest Environment of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Directorates for Coordination and Inspection of Forests in the Directorates-General for Forests and Rural Affairs of the Decentralised Administrations. Therefore, at the same address, as an intermediate management body, the power to issue invitations and notices has been assigned to the programme in question. I should like to mention that in measure 8 ‘Forest Area Development’, in addition to sub-measure 8.1, sub-measures 8.3 and 8.4 have been included, which by decision 2021, some time ago projects that directly or indirectly benefit all producers in the areas concerned have been included, as anti-military, anti-nuclear and anti-corrosion projects are included. The total cost of these projects is EUR 66 million for measure 8.3 and EUR 13 million for measure 8.4. Overall, they amount to EUR 79 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u61	Minister, I fear that you have not answered the basic question, which is the timetable for implementing this sub-measure. Because, yes, you are moving, as you have said, the responsibility for implementing the services that your Ministry is supervising, but we do not have a clear response to what is happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u62	Not to us in Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u63	Obviously. Excuse me, I mean for those who don't oversee your ministry. For the second question I have asked you, I would like to say that the Community support programme for the smaller islands of the Aegean Sea is an important tool for supporting island producers. Among the activities supported are mastic farming with the sum of EUR 1,000,015 per year. In recent years, however, mastic production has increased significantly, by over 20% - this year, we have also had a brave increase - compared to 2006, while the amount of subsidy remains stable. This involves a reduction of the subsidy per kilogram of mastic. The Chios Mastic Producers Association, by letter dated 20-7-2020, provided relevant information to the then Minister and requested an increase in the subsidy. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry's intentions have not been known to date. Generally, the budget of the programme remains substantially stable from at least 2013 onwards, around EUR 25 million in total. It is therefore necessary to increase the budget both of the grant side of local agricultural production, in order to support the development and expansion of the activity of island producers and of the grant of the transfer of feed from the mainland in the midst of the precision wave, which also affects the raw materials for farmers and farmers. Therefore, the request to increase the budget for this programme or to find other ways of special support for producers on the islands is more timely than ever. So ask, Mr Minister: Do you intend to increase the amount of mastic farming subsidies under the support programme for the smaller Aegean islands? How do you intend to support producers in the island regions in general through this programme or other instruments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. In relation to the first question, I think it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. For reasons of ethics and non-knowledge, you understand that I cannot answer. But you can do parliamentary control and ask. They'll give you the answer. There is no reason and no intention of not being implemented and not being able to run this afforestation programme. As far as I know, he's getting ready, but the Department of Energy and the Environment will give you information. I don't have that possibility. Now, in relation to the aid programme for the smaller Aegean islands, it is really a programme that has been set up and is then working, which strengthens and alleviates the difficulties facing our islands, our small islands, throughout the country. It is a programme that we believe helps, gives an answer to the small area, mountain relief, climate conditions, economic dependence on a small number of products and the distance of our islands, due to the islands, from the large centres. This measure comes to respond and help reduce these costs. A number of products grown and produced on our islands, which have a particular nutritional value, and are unique, and are most products of designation of origin and geographical indication, which give us an added value in the producer price, are included in the products covered by this programme. The role of the programme is therefore to come in addition to supporting and strengthening producers' incomes. Under no circumstances does it come to replace or replace it. The Chios mastic was therefore strengthened by the fifth largest amount among the 12 products included in this programme. It is the fifth in order and has received for 2020 an amount of EUR 1,120,000. Observing - from the information note I have - all years from 2015 to 2020 and 2021, we see a reduction in declarations, namely a reduction in producers - small, not too long, but it is a reduction - more than a hundred declarations year by year. On the contrary, you say so, and in your question, we have an increase in production, and that is a good sign. It shows that the product stands and finds its way to the market. We therefore come as a Ministry, as a political leadership and have done the following: As for the period 2014-2020, the total amount involved was EUR 23,930,000 for this programme, of which EUR 6,5 million are for the special supply arrangements and EUR 17,300,000 for the direct income support of farmers, for the agricultural products we mentioned earlier, so we keep this amount at the same level, at EUR 23 million and for the next period. It is worth pointing out something and informing you too, because they might have had another briefing in the past. In 2018, the reduction of this amount was proposed at European level for this programme as well as for the common agricultural policy as a whole. By our own intervention and intervention from France, Portugal and Spain we have ensured that the transitional period 2021-2022 - and for 2021 and 2022 - is the same amount as that for the transitional period. Therefore, payments for producers with the exact previous scheme will run, as the price has been determined through studies, income support and public expenditure. This is something which was certainly not self-evident or accepted by all the Member States of the European Union. There were reactions. However, the positive for both our citizens and Chios' masturbators is that for the next year, that is, for both 2021 and 2022, they will have the same funding as they had in the previous years. Now, in relation to the next framework 2023-2027, the government intends to cover this amount either from the Public Investment Programme or from other resources, to remain in the same overall budget. In addition, in the Common Agricultural Policy 2023-2027, Greece was the only country where the overall budget was not reduced. In all the other countries of the European Union in the Common Agricultural Policy, we had a 10% reduction in the budget to 15%. By personal intervention of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis - which is a national success - we have maintained the same amount as the previous period. So, for the CAP, we have the same amount in the budget, we have secured it, the Prime Minister took care of it. For the interim programme we have managed to have the budget and if necessary for this sub-programme, for the smaller Aegean islands, at public expense, we will ensure that we have the same budget and be allocated to the beneficiaries on the basis of their applications and studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the seventh timely question of a circle under MP number 288/10-1-2022 B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "The Government violates the judgments of the European Court of Justice by dismissing cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance after twenty years of work." The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, the Minister should clearly be here. It is a question which has been tabled several times. He'd committed himself to coming. He asked us to postpone her. We postponed it and now set it for Monday while he could have set it for Friday, knowing he has a board at the Treasury. It is obvious that the Minister did not want to answer this question, as he has not answered and my request to meet with the fired cleaners. It's left unanswered. It is obvious that he actually wants to avoid answering. We're talking about cleaners, many of whom have been working for twenty years. They started with EUR 350 contracts, their contracts were renewed, and now they have come to have a more normal wage. They managed to grow up - I don't know how - their kids with 350 euros and then a few more. And now, just before they retired, in the middle of this crisis, you throw them on the road. The European Court of Justice has consistently held that it is forbidden to make fixed-term contracts for posts covering fixed and fixed-term needs. You are making a new contract, a three-year contract, excluding these women in practice, without effectively recognising their offer for the past twenty years, and once again making a three-year contract, once again for a certain period of time. That's forbidden. You're doing something illegal again. But let us see what the decision of the European Court of Justice in February 2021 says. It says, in reply to the Lassithi court, which sent a preliminary question for a similar case, that when there has been an abusive use of successive fixed-term working contracts, as in this case, the judge may, in his assessment, proceed to the correct legal designation of contracts as a single contract of indefinite duration despite the prohibition in Article 103 of the Constitution, an article which reminds me that you refused to be revised in the recent constitutional revision. Any argument that such contracts cannot be made indefinite is therefore weakened. It also requires the decision to convert fixed-term contracts into an indefinite contract and at the same time tells us that there is no constitutional issue in this regard. The decision of the court expressly mentions the possibility of transforming fixed-term contracts into unlimited contracts. And the court says that it cannot be ruled out that contracts should become indefinite on the grounds that this would be unconstitutional, as was the case up until now. So I see that in this judgment of the European Court of Justice you have no excuse but to protect the right of women and men.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Colleague, you have to ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u69	I ask the Ministry to proceed with the conversion of those contracts which have, unfortunately, expired in contracts of indefinite duration, as is provided for in the judgment of the European Court of Justice and the logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, my personal respect for the right of every citizen to work is a given one. The question you have submitted is that the fixed-term contracts of the Ministry of Finance should be converted into contracts of indefinite duration. On this subject many were the ones who built political careers in the past. This is not a tip for you, and I want to make it clear. They were careers built through the convenience of populism. Promise everyone, promise to abolish the memorials and bring a new and more painful memorial. I say that as a parenthesis. The government will answer the substance of your question with evidence and, above all, with honesty. Because the people whose request you are transporting must know the truth. An attempt to convert the contracts you mentioned in your question from a certain time to an indefinite period would be contrary to the provisions of Article 103(2) and (8) of the Constitution. In particular, paragraph 2 provides that: ‘No one may be appointed as an official in an organic position which is not legislated. Exemptions may be provided for by special law to cover unforeseen and urgent needs with personnel recruited for a certain period of time in relation to private law’. Accordingly, paragraph 8 of the Constitution provides: ‘Law shall lay down the terms and conditions of employment relationships of private law in the public and general public sector, as laid down each time in order to cover either organic positions and beyond those provided for in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3, either temporary or unforeseen and urgent needs as referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2. A law shall also specify the tasks that the staff referred to in the preceding subparagraph may perform. It shall be prohibited to permanently staff covered by the first subparagraph or to transform their contracts into an indefinite period. The prohibitions in this paragraph shall also apply to those employed under a contract of employment.’ What does that mean? It means that the conversion of fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, which has been judged legally by the Marios Ice. The provisions of Council Directive 1999/70/EC of 28 June 1999 concerning the staff of the public and the public sector have also been incorporated into the Greek legal system. The purpose of that directive was to avoid circumvention of the provisions by invoking successive contracts or fixedterm employment contracts for employees in the public and public sectors. On the basis of Article 11 of Law No 164/2004, a specific procedure was provided for in order to establish whether the relevant contracts concluded before the entry into force of Law No 164/2004, which were effective until the entry into force of that Law, would henceforth constitute contracts of indefinite duration on the basis of the conditions laid down in the Presidential Decree. Since the present contracts were not converted into contracts for indefinite duration pursuant to point 164/2004, it means that they did not fulfil the criteria laid down in the current legislative framework. I shall also refer to other elements and data relating to this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Minister. Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you spoke of people who built careers. Really, let's take a look at that. How does one build a political career? Of course, by giving a fixed-term job, because that's the way rousphetti is. A career politically builds up when one has the workers to tremble if the contract is cut off. That's how they built a political career so many parties. That's how they built them! Why did you not proceed with the revision of Article 103, Minister, when you had the opportunity? Why didn't you vote in favour of the revision of Article 103? Tell us. The Constitutional Review was set. Why didn't you vote for it? It's the contract. It's the contract. That is why the European Court of Justice says that it is illegal, because it belongs to a client state of old cutting, a three-year-old contract ending in the election cycle, to fear that the worker will be hungry if he does not come out of the same government as someone had found them. But I want to talk here about your government's obsession with cleaners. It has hurt you deeply that they won the race in 2014 - 2015. You were deeply hurt by this movement and you were avenged. And because you can't avenge permanent cleaners, avenge contracts. That's the reality. Of course, you're not just confined to the Treasury. At the moment, you are dismissing the contractual cleaners from hospitals and schools and you have reached the point that Mr Vorides is saying that there will be no cleaners in local government, in the municipalities, because the posts are not productive. The positions of cleaners and cleaners are not productive, the work they offer is not important. He will hire, as he said, only engineers and other people who lead to the development of the municipality and not cleaners. You have an idea of cleaners because they're poor and intimidated and don't match your model. They have not passed either from private colleges or anywhere else or have been able to become their clients. So, obviously, you are disturbed by the judgment of the Court of Justice and you obviously do not want to take it into account. But it is clear and repetitive. The European Court of Justice has said similar things over and over again. Now, however, he said that Article 103 cannot be an obstacle to simulations and that the administration should understand recurring fixed-term contracts as indefinite. That's what we're asking you to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr Colleague, as I have explained to you, and as I am sure you are aware of the case-law, in order to prevent the abusive conclusion of fixed-term contracts, it is necessary for the operators concerned to examine the possibility of setting up regular staff, taking into account the financial conditions and needs of the service and always in the light of the more effective service of the public interest. At the same time, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 103 of the Constitution and the existing legislative framework of Law No 4765/2021, the possibility of recruitment of temporary staff to non-institutionalised organic posts with a view to meeting urgent and unforeseen needs is explicitly provided for. The recruitment of such staff which presupposes an earlier application by the person concerned shall take place on transparent and ex ante terms to the worker, including the duration of the contract. In no case, therefore, is the State’s choice of lawfully and correctly applying the current legislative framework to recruit temporary staff in order to meet its urgent and unforeseen needs. In any event, public employment under fixed-term or fixed-term contracts may be permitted if the conditions set out in the above provisions are met, without, however, creating a right or a claim for the employees to convert their contracts into an indefinite period, as the employment of regular staff requires the provision of corresponding posts to cover fixed-term needs. Moreover, those employed under private-law contracts or project contracts may participate in notices on the recruitment of regular staff to public sector bodies, so that the experience gained is one of the mobilised criteria, as provided for in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, too, Minister. It will now be discussed the first under number 291/10-1-2022 in the second cycle of MP B3' South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Mousala, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Without planning and consultation the abolition of the DU Moschatos". The timely question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u77	Minister, my question relates to an irrational administrative decision which causes great disturbance and social weight, the transfer of the Moschato DU in Kallithea. It is a decision that was taken without consultation, despite the contradictions that exist with them. In our view it is part of a series of erroneous merger options, without being against mergers. In other words, we will agree that as far as the electronic settlement of these cases is concerned, mergers can exist and be operational. But we claim that we are not at this stage yet. Very soon, Minister, I ask you whether you intend to suspend this decision or to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr Colleague, the Independent Public Revenue Authority has been an institutional reform in the direction of transition to a modern and rational model of the functioning of tax and control services. It is not subject to political or party interventions. She has her own establishment plan and operational plan. This means that any decisions taken by the Independent Public Revenue Authority for its structure and operation are based on the rationalisation of all data on the effectiveness of services and the service of taxpayers. Criteria for these decisions are: Firstly, safeguarding the quality of service of taxpayers, also taking into account the quantitative and qualitative greater needs of professionals and businesses. Secondly, the continued strengthening of the electronic services structures of the IMOs' transactions and processes, which means limiting the need for the operators to be physically present. Thirdly, the operational capabilities of the DUs. This means, on the one hand, the professional competence of staff, that is, experience and know-how in carrying out tax procedures, and on the other hand, their technical equipment. Fourthly, the serious problem of the buildings in which the majority of the DUs are housed from the point of view of the adequacy of space and of the old facilities, as well as the cost of housing services. Fifthly, the more rational distribution of human resources resulting from economies of scale and synergies developed in the context of mergers and operation of large organic units. Sixthly, the'structuring' of kilometre distances due to the development of road and public transport over recent years. This means that the need for a large number of DUs is limited. Seventhly, the need for medium- and long-term planning for the organisation of tax services with a view to the modern DU of the next decade. It is a given fact that we are in a continuous phase of evaluation and update in terms of actions, performance of services, but also in our strategic options. And in the whole range of tax administration services, the assessment and continuous monitoring of performance, function and improvement of their services to citizens are essential. That is why our sovereign priority remains the optimisation of services, investment in new technologies, the development of electronic services. In the last two and a half years, significant steps have been taken in this direction that are positively assessed by the citizens who use the new services and see that their level of service is improved by the tax administration. For all of this, I shall refer more specifically to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u81	I'm really sorry, Minister. You have read to me a press release with generalities, which you made before the debate even took place. So let me tell you that no matter what...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u82	I'll tell my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u83	Yes, Minister. Irrespective of the independent authorities, government responsibilities for programming always exist. We therefore have one tax, one DU, which is directed at some fifty thousand people. As part of the failure, it is transferred to Kallithea. We object to this, which, if it had been consulted, would have been found by Mr Spankis of the New Democracy, by the association of officials of the DUs, the workers of Attica - islands and by Panhellenic, where the majority belonged to the New Democracy. You've been reported by Mr. Balafas. The director of the DU Kallithea states that he has no room - because you said about the building - to accept the archives of the Moushatu DU and he will barely find some room for the employees. There is no one who agrees with this thing. And over there, instead of seeing how you will be able to facilitate a situation and leave for the future, when the digital transformation of these things has been completed, without these huge shortcomings, you are covered behind general texts, which have a situation that does not correspond to reality. For example, Tavros and Moschato were administratively integrated. But Tavros was taxed in Athens. Moschhato stayed apart. Since 2011 the Moschato has been despised, the central vegetable market has left him, lost its rights in court as well. I would like to say that reading a text or giving me another text is too easy. There's a social problem. We agree that, once the digital transformation has been completed, this social problem will not exist. This is not to be done - obviously you know - within the next one or two years. The question, then, is - and I am ending, Madam President - can we do something to suspend this situation, go a tax office in Kallithea, which has already taken New Izmir's tax? And we tell you that Callithea is currently serving three hundred thousand taxpayers and business. And the Moschato is transferred, which is another fifty thousand. They don't have room, they don't have possibilities. I think it might not be a matter of political controversy, but there was, in practical terms, a intention to see this happen again. That's what we're asking. Because it is also irrational and creates huge social problems. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u85	Madam President, this is rare, but I will need a little more time, so I ask for your tolerance, because there is a lot to be said. Mr. Comrade. A stable pursuit of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis remains the construction of a model of operation of the tax administration based on relationships of trust with the citizen. And this relationship is built through improving the level of civil service. With new services, no hardship and no bureaucracy. Serious and substantial interventions have already been implemented to eliminate bureaucracy, digital transformation and modernise tax administration, and interventions that potentially benefit both citizens and businesses. With institutions and new agencies which do not impose the presence of the citizen in the field. Let me remind you: Firstly, the automation of VAT refund procedures. The taxpayer shall submit his application electronically for a refund of VAT via taxisnet of the ADI and within 10 days he shall see the relevant amount entitled to his bank account if his case is judged to be uncontrolled. Without having to go to taxi.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u86	You're reading literature to me, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u87	I'm telling you the digitization that has been done and it doesn't have to be done. I note that from July 2021, which started to apply and implement the automated VAT refund procedure for the total number of thirteen thousand four hundred fifty-five, a VAT refund application submitted between July 2021 and November 2021, 83.5% of the refund applications, corresponding to eleven thousand three hundred twenty-five VAT refund applications, were carried out automatically and the total amount of VAT returned directly to the beneficiaries of these applications and directly to their accounts amounted to EUR 552.205.336. These elements clearly illustrate the successful and effective implementation of our economic planning. I must stress here that most of the automation process has already been implemented and produces the measurable results I have just analysed. Secondly, the implementation of electronic books, which is a choice of modernisation, progress, transparency and support for businesses and professionals. Third, the creation of a new digital tax platform in AIA, which offers upgraded services. Through the new digital platform, the citizen has the possibility: to be informed at any time of all debts, be they regulated or not regulated. To be informed of the payments made through banks and the reimbursement of taxes expected to be paid in their bank account or to be offset by outstanding tax or insurance debts. To pay tax debts with a bank card directly, through the platform, and regulate his debts. Fourthly, making it possible for citizens to put their vehicles in motion electronically and without having to go to taxi to deposit signs. Electronically, the lifting of the immobilisation of the vehicles can now be done. And next time, we will implement a new set of innovations with online and electronic services that will not make the presence of citizens in the DUs necessary and necessary. Our aim is, by the end of the four-year period, to have gone even further towards a comprehensive digitisation of the procedures and the infrastructures of the tax services so that the citizen can be electronically served from home for all the services of public service which are currently carried out on taxes. In particular, for the DU Moschato I - 2 class, which is not abolished, as you mentioned, but is merged with DU Kallithea I Class, in addition to the above criteria I mentioned, they were also taken into account: The small distance of one and a half kilometres from DU Kallithea is one and a half miles from DU Kallithea. The small number of servants, as eighteen servants serve in it. The small number of transactions managed by the DU Moschatos electronically. In particular, on the basis of aggregated statistics compiled by the system on January 13, 2022, on the electronic applications "My Requests" and "My DU Moschatos", DU Moschatos managed for the year 2021 only seven hundred nineteen requests. By the merger of the DU Moschatos with the DU Kallithea will save human and economic resources, through the concentration of these staff in a DU and will ensure that it is properly and more efficiently operated in order to serve the public interest. The necessity and importance of the digital evolution of ADI was even confirmed by the assessment of the functioning of its services during the Koronian period, as international tax administration standards, the digitisation of a large number of transactions and distance service, led to the reduction of the bureaucracy and suffering of the citizens, as well as the reduction of the operating costs of ADI services, the rational management of its staff and resources, while ensuring the quality service of the community as a whole. I note that this is a dynamic process that is constantly fuelled by the new data and modern requirements of the tax administration in the context of achieving the AIA's strategic objective of best service and support to citizens and businesses, as set out in the AIA 2020 - 2024 strategy plan. In any case, everything shall be evaluated and, where appropriate, the necessary corrective action shall be taken to find the best possible option for the tax administration and the taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first with number 885/4-11-2021 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To provide clear answers and comparable actions, the earthquakes are called upon by Arkalochori." The current question will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Besiropoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, if possible, I should like to develop both questions together, since they have the same content.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u90	Do you want me to read the next one?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u91	Yeah, to facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u92	Sure. Also in the second with number 300/10-1-2022, the first-round question by the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "A programme of non-repayable advance for the earthquakes affected and the remission of the returnee for the pandemic" will be answered by Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Vesiropoulos. Will you take all the time you are entitled to protology on both questions, Mr Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u93	I don't think I'm gonna need him all.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u94	I'll give you the time and you manage it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mr Minister, as you know, the catastrophic earthquake and the earthquakes and aftermath of course have caused irreparable damage to the region, which is not just building destruction. The economy is basically on its knees. Economic and social reconstruction is necessary and the role of the Ministry of Finance is de facto critical and important, of course not the only Ministry, the responsible one, is other ministries. There is a lack of coordination between the various ministries' actions and it would be good - I say this at the time of the debate - to appoint a coordinator officially by the state, whether body or person, for the reconstruction of the region. So we have two questions. One has become unanswered and refers to various issues that have arisen. Of course, it's been a while since he was filed. Today what you may have to consider is whether, by the end of the six-month period in which debts are accumulated, there can be a better adjustment to accumulated debts, but also to the debts of previous years that companies, which have been affected, have to cover, either in the seventy-two instalments or if there is a more generous adjustment of one hundred twenty instalments for more important sums. The subject of the timely question now - and I come to it - is more specific. I would like, Minister, to know whether you have worked out, thought or have already decided to operate an unpaid advance programme in order to strengthen those companies which have been affected, which are really unable to deal with the situation differently. The second thing I would ask is that there should be a regulation on the repayable advance paid by earthquake-stricken businesses to deal with the pandemic, and today they are unable to return. Here we are calling for this refund to be cancelled, for the obligation to rescind the advance to be withdrawn, because there is a complete weakness in doing so. So we ask, in fact, the following things: if you are thinking about more general regulations on the debts of businesses in the region, whether you are going to make a aid programme with an unpaid advance or what you call it, and if you are thinking of deleting the repayable advance, which they have received in order to support for the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u96	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Comrade. As in all the questions put, I am here to give an answer. In particular, on a particularly sensitive issue, which concerns supporting earthquakes among the citizens and businesses. The Government and the Ministry of Finance, from the first hours immediately after the earthquake of 27 September, showed immediate reflexes. With effective and practical support measures. I would remind you that, first of all, the granting of EUR 14 000 or EUR 8 000 or EUR 3 000, depending on the size of the estimated losses. Beneficiaries of the measure shall be owners, natural or legal persons or legal entities wholly or partially owned, of building business establishments damaged by the earthquake as resulting from the most recent E9. Secondly, the granting of first aid to the grant for damages to equipment and production facilities, EUR 8 000 or EUR 4,000 or EUR 2,000, depending on the size of the damage to the installations. The beneficiaries of the measure are undertakings regardless of their legal form, including agricultural holdings, as well as non-profit-making entities which have suffered material damage caused by the earthquake to assets such as equipment, raw materials, goods, means of production, stored products. 3) The payment of exceptional financial assistance to workers whose contract of employment was suspended in the form of a special purpose compensation of EUR 534 per month corresponding to 30 days, pro rata temporis on the days of suspension of their contracts. In fact, it was determined that the workers in an undertaking affected by the earthquake, whose contract of employment has been terminated by a complaint between 27-9 and 12-11-21, become beneficiaries of the exceptional financial assistance, as a special purpose compensation, from the date of the termination of their employment relationship and for a period not exceeding three months. I would also like to remind you that the relevant electronic platform for the submission of applications was opened directly on 6 October for the regions of the Minoa Pedia and Arhana-Asterousia. At the same time, from 22 October the second stage of the procedure also proceeded, extending both the perimeter of the beneficiaries affected by the earthquake of 27 September 2021 and the deadline for the submission of applications by 15 November 2021. The Ministry of Finance explicitly and unequivocally provided that the financial aid in question to citizens and businesses is tax-free, unequal and inconsistent in the hands of the public or third parties, is not subject to any reservation, fee or contribution, they are not bound and they are not offset by certain debts to the tax administration and the public and the banks. I would also like to inform you that by the end of December, for the compensation and support of the earthquaked areas in Crete, a total of EUR 39.579.494.63 has been allocated to four thousand four hundred fifteen citizens who submitted their applications. This process also continues after the completion of the processing of the applications and the information submitted has been completed, new payments will be made in the following period. In my dentistry, I will answer questions raised by you in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, half the questions have not been answered, so I cannot answer them. I will say, however, in addition, that the aid platform has been closed on 15 November and has not been opened before, so that everyone who has not been able to make their applications has not been able to do so until the first stage. We have a very large number of people who have applied for and have not been examined or made available on the basis of their application. The figure sounds great, I do not know where it has been 'drung' because if they had dropped 31 million in the region, I honestly say to you, they would have moved something. No repairs are made, no reconstructions, no mobility to restore the region, and I do not know where it is due. However, I would like to say to you that the advances are not even enough to rebuild the region. There are many bureaucratic issues which have to do with other ministries, of course, and not only with the Ministry of Finance, and that is why I said to you that we need, in my view, a coordinator of the reconstruction work, either a body or a person designated by the Government. But you have to, you can't. Things are in their luck, and people are just waiting for something that does not come, because to come, there must be expedients and acceleratings at the moment, in fact, is not on the government side. The specific three issues of the timely question that you did not answer, apart from the regulation of whether there is the possibility of a hundred or seventy-two instalments and of the debts that are within the earthquake period and the debts of the pandemic and debts that were before, but when a business is destroyed, it cannot pay the debts even before. You cannot say that "at seventy-two I put the debts of the pandemic", for example, "or the earthquake, but the previous ones will pay for them." How will he pay them after the operation was completely destroyed? Apart from setting up to see whether you are thinking or have been working on a business aid programme. You have done half with the possibility of suspending workers for three months, and for six months the area has been declared in an emergency, and in fact none of those hit has been reopened. This measure of suspension should be extended, but companies themselves should be strengthened for lost income. With their advance payment to make damage recovery does not mean that the income they lose is not covered by the company that has died. He needs a backup. Are you going to make a schedule? You must also tell us whether we are finally dealing with the companies that received a repayable advance for dealing with the pandemic will now be given some favourable treatment by deleting this amount of returnee requested, because, as you have made arrangements and decisions, 50% has already been deleted for all companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I will repeat the amounts of compensation and support to the affected areas in the earthquake-stricken areas of Crete, which have been allocated in total until December. It is 39,559.494,63 euros to four thousand four hundred and fifteen citizens who submitted their applications. As for the other part that you said the platform has been closed, in order not to stay any beneficiary outside the aid framework offered by the first aid, the Government and the Ministry of Finance shall assess on a lasting basis all the data in order at a later date, to allow for an application to the platform: Firstly, for those affected they failed to complete their application because of procedural issues relating to changes made in the statement of their real estate due to hereditary arrangements. You've raised this before. We'll settle this soon. Secondly, for those affected by the earthquake, they wish to update or revise or even withdraw their application after the competent services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport have completed the audit. Thirdly, for those who have not been able to apply for the two phases of application on the platform and who want to submit to the platform after completion of the audit by the relevant services of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Mr Colleague, the Ministry of Finance, its services, and the tax administration services in particular are at the disposal of every citizen to inform or provide counselling on all points of procedure. I, too, want you to know that I assess all the parameters of the procedure and I am ready to accept improvements every time. From there on, I must tell you that there have been other support measures such as: the prolongation and suspension of certain debts to the municipalities and local communities affected by the earthquake. The exemption from the EMI as a whole for three years, i.e. 2021, 2022 and 2023, for property situated in areas that have been declared in an emergency-political protection situation due to the earthquake, and have been proven to be completely destroyed or subjected to operational losses that render them non-residentable. In fact, this exemption from the HNPVA applies if their owners: first, they hold a re-check or autopsy report according to which the building has been classified as dangerous or inappropriate for use or, second, they hold a self-declaration protocol which is dangerously prepared building of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, issued by 30 June 2022, and, at the crucial time, the ownership or other property rights to the property belong to the taxable person for those years. From there on, as far as the repayment of the aid to be recovered is concerned, I must stress and remind you that the refund rate for all the cycles in the repayable advance is reduced according to the fall in the gross revenue of each undertaking. If the maintenance clause for workers laid down in each advance payment cycle has been complied with, the following percentages of the aid may be repaid: First, for enterprises that have started work before 1 January 2019, a branch has not been opened between 1 April 2019 and 31 December 2020 and have positive gross revenues in 2019, there will be a refund: 25% of the aid, since the reduction in the company’s gross revenues exceeds 70 % compared to 2019 and the company presents losses before tax or 33,3 % of the aid, since the reduction in the company’s gross revenues in 2020 amounts to at least 30 % and 70 % compared to 2019, and presents losses before tax or 50% of the aid for other undertakings. Secondly, for new undertakings that have started operations after 1 January 2019 or for undertakings that opened a branch from 1 April 2019 to 31 December 2020 or have zero gross revenues of 2019, there will be a refund: 25% of the aid, since the reduction of the company’s gross revenues exceeds 30% of the revenues of 2019, and the company presents losses before tax or 33,3 % of the aid for other undertakings. At the same time, the instalments for repayment of the repayment of the aid received in sixty equal monthly instalments, which are now interest-free, have been increased, and the option of a one-off payment of the repayable aid, before the end of the grace period, is granted with a 15% discount on the repayable amount. I must inform you at this point that the grace period expiring on 31 December 2021 will be extended, with the first instalment being paid on 30 June 2022, and the period during which a one-off payment of the aid received at a discount of 15% will be extended until 31 March 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u103	Can I have a word, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u104	Please, Mr. Colleague, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u105	I was expecting an excuse because in the firefighting operations we are well deleting the repayable advance rather than the earthquakes. What's the difference I haven't understood yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-17-S1-commons.u107	With the consent of the House at 19.48 the sitting on Wednesday 19 January 2022 is closed at 9 a.m. on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work on the agenda to be distributed to you.
