ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 20-1-2022 authorisation, the minutes of the NZ Bureau, of 20-1-22, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Modification of competition law for the digital era — Amendment of Law 3959/2011 and incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018 on the conferral of powers on the competition authorities of the Member States to enforce more effectively the rules and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP B3' South Athens, the following:]] A. REFERENCE OF REFERENCES [[To get the mail in.]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 24 January 2022. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 309/13-1-2022, by MP Larissa, New Democracy, Maximou Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Actions for the anniversary of the Minority of the Asia Minor Destruction". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 307/13-1-2022 topical question by Deputy East Attica of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Health, on "In a very difficult situation, health centres and regional doctors in Eastern Attica". 3. Question No 319/17-1-2022 by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heraklion Movement, to the Minister of National Defence, on "What is the government position on the sustainability, consolidation and safeguarding of the jobs of the Eleusis Shipyards?" 4. The Question No 305/11-1-2022 by F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Suspension of on-call of the Pentelis Children's Hospital and its conversion to an exclusive vaccination centre". 5. The 304/11-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "PYRKAL in Elefsina: a government sacrifice to the refineries against the decisions of the competent bodies". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 311/14-1-2022 topical question by Mr. Athens, New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Our struggle for the reunification of the Sculptures of the Parthenon". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 308/13-1-22022 topical question by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct placement of the new Oncology Hospital of Thessaloniki in the former Karatasos camp in western Thessaloniki". 3. Question No 320/17-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Movement of Change, Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "In the air the Kazanaris and thousands of vineyard growers and agricultural households asking for the designation of traditional tsikoudia Crete to be maintained." 4. The Question No 315/17-1-2022 by the Member of Parliament, Aitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papastasis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Severe problems of the farmers of Epirus". 5. The 306/13-1-2022 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The end of hydrocarbon research in Crete'. 6. The 314/17-1-2022 topical question by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct need to rebuild the Board. Skopelos. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 322/17-1-2022 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The government's responsibility has led thousands of farmers to a dead end from the repeated problems in paying subsidies." 8. Question No 310/13-1-2022 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "Press: Valanidorrachis Forest - Protection of the property of the public". 9. Under No 312/17-1-2022, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The suspension of a newspaper from the Penteli Children's Hospital is a "mutilation" of public pediatric care" 10. The question under number 323/17-1-2022 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Reinstate the hundreds of twenty-five instalments for all citizens and be able to join in regulating the seventy-two instalments and dues before 2020’. 11. The question by number 313/17-1-2022 of the SYRIZA Member of Parliament - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The economic consequences of the Green Agreement on cotton, apples, peaches and open tomato". 12. Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, dated 318/17-1-2022, on the subject of "A ticket of EUR 50 to the Alonissos Shipyard". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 1140/41/12-11-2021 of the SYRIZA Parliamentary II documentary - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "No want by the Government to take risk compensation measures on the electricity market". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 276/13-10-2021 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Reimbursements on movable assets destroyed by the earthquake of 27 September". 3. Question No 1705/6-12-2021 by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Would the government implement the anachronistic burial fee of Law 4819/2021, promoting the burning of waste and drugizing recycling?" Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The question, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Pechas. Question Nos 316/17-1-2022 and 321/17-1-2022, and Question No 1632/12-2021, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The question under number 317/17-1-2022 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Eleftherios Ausgeakis, and the question under number 231/11-10-2021, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Georgios Karagiannis. The first question, with number 742/29-10-2021, will be discussed and an application for documents in the circle of petitions and questions, the MP Rhodope of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Demetrius (Takis) Charitou to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: ‘Serious impacts on the local society from unjustified delay in the integration of mature works by the Municipality of Komotini into the program ‘ANITIS TRITIS’ under the responsibility of the Government’. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, will answer. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes for your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. It took almost two and a half years to announce five projects in the program "ANITONIS TRITIS" of 340,000,000 euros, one of which is the renovation of the Komotini Municipality, 4800,000 euros and one smaller of the Municipality of Ismos. While the Municipality of Komotinis and the other municipalities, based on the motto you have set, have submitted the projects that claim to join, amounting to EUR 22,500,000, the Municipality of Komotinis and from about EUR 12,000,000, the other three municipalities, while they have responded despite the suffocating deadlines that you have set, in vain expect the integration of the projects to proceed with their implementation. Now you should implement rather than discuss the integration of the city's renovation project, the municipal representatives publicly support it, and quite rightly so. Because your commitment was to incorporate 50% of the projects into the "CONTRIBUTION" programme by the end of last year. Can you tell us what the percentage of projects you've got all right? It took two years, then, after many refreshments, to recognize the importance of "Philodime" and thus put the works in place. The least one could charge you is a lack of management capacity, not to say incompetence. In addition to the serious delay, they are removed from the wall of the municipal projects that were part of the "PHILOPOS" programme, even those whose implementation has been completed. CATRID You are wrong with the small municipalities in the region, punish those who have shown efficiency. The projects of the Rhodope municipalities whose integration is delayed, projects such as the construction of sewerage networks, the water supply of settlements, rural roads, equipment, waste management, digital service upgrades and others that have been submitted, will certainly alleviate local communities. At a difficult economic time, their integration, Mr Minister, and their implementation will give growth impetus and contribute to the strengthening of work, but also to the stimulation of the local economy. So I ask you, Minister. You put the cap on each municipality. So tell us what specific timetable will proceed with the integration of the projects submitted to you by the municipalities in Rhodope, and whether you will exclude the projects that have been included in the "Philodimos" programme in order to increase the funding of the small municipalities. A request, Minister, and I am closing down, Madam President, is that the projects that are part of the programme should first be communicated to the municipalities and not to the government's MPs. My activities are not only underestimated by the role of the municipalities, but also by the Ministry itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Happy birthday and a good year to everyone. I would also like to thank Mr Haritis for the question, because he gives me the opportunity to answer for a very successful programme of the Ministry of the Interior, the Antonis Tritsis programme and the outlets that this gives to the needs of local communities for infrastructure projects. First of all, let me say that a good idea, which came from the government, the program "Philodimos I", has evolved and strengthened by the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Theodorikos and Mr.Livanios, and developed even more than me and Maki Voridis in the previous period. Therefore, a financial dossier, Mr Haritou, which was about EUR 1.3 billion, which is the projects that the previous government incorporated into the ‘PHILOPOS I’ programme, has been developed and with successive increases we have now reached EUR 3.45 billion. If we had stayed at EUR 1.3 billion, you would not be talking about delays in the Antonis Tritsis programme today, but about failure to integrate into any other financial instrument. We have completed EUR 1.4 billion over the last seven months after the signing of about March of the European Investment Bank's loan contract with the Deposit and Loan Fund, which enables the Ministry of Interior to have a subsidised interest rate and thus to be viable to repay loans made by the municipalities and regions of the country with the Deposit and Loan Fund from the Ministry's Public Investment Programme. You have not done that, and today you are talking about delays in a programme that would not exist. As I said, with EUR 1.4 billion of projects, no one can talk about delays. Please, for reasons of public information, look at other financial instruments such as the ESRB, for example, and say when EUR 1.4 billion has been entered in seven to eight months. There's no precedent. So the speed with which the Special Management and Implementation Agency of the Ministry of the Interior is running does not precede, at least as far as I know, the financial instruments and they deserve congratulations, and I say so publicly. The staff have exaggerated themselves precisely to meet the needs of local communities as quickly as possible through the programmes submitted to the Ministry of Interior. And they have submitted over three thousand applications for projects over 6 billion euros. As you can see, the financial dossier is smaller despite the fact that we raised it. Therefore, it was necessary to impose a plaque. The plaque, which we have put it boldly and mobilised, and we have informed the municipalities and regions of the need to put a wall in order to avoid unfair municipalities, is reflected in today's picture. And today's picture of the accessions shows a balanced distribution in all the regions of the country, and before the "Philodimos" programme, there was, as you know, an unequal distribution in favour of the small regional municipalities in certain geographical areas, which have now also been developed with the urban centres and the largest municipalities. We all understand that, when large municipalities, such as Attica or Thessaloniki, live, where half the country's population lives, this is to the good of the citizens. I'd like to take some time for my dentistry, but I need to answer two issues. For the Municipality of Komotini, ambitious proposals have indeed been put forward, which are far more than the EUR 22 million threshold, you said. However, the 4.8 million urban renewal, as you said, has already been included, and I will be presenting to you in the Minutes, because that is what you have asked for in your question. But there was also a remnant of the program "Philodimos", which currently leads the Municipality of Komotini to be close to half the plaque, around 47%. What are we going to do next time? We will incorporate two key projects that have been evaluated. I understand that, according to my information from my services, the call for the digital transformation of the municipality and the call for the management of waste, which is a very topical issue due to the application of a burial fee from 1 to 2022, is the call for the management of waste. They are expected to join the January and February meetings, i.e. the very next period. I reserve for tabling all the other proposals, when the evaluation comes from the committee, that is to say it will go through the Committee on Evaluation. I'll take some time for my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I have listened very carefully. You probably do not see that there is a delay in the integration of the works of the municipalities and, in particular, of the municipalities of Rhodope, which I mentioned to you. And not only do you see no delay, you argued that you were building a more powerful financial instrument with increased resources, than I understood, "Antonis Tritsis", effectively depreciating the previous programme of "PHILOS". And what did you actually do, Minister? After almost two years of rebirth, what you did was to copy the very money leverage mechanism that made "PHILIDOS". Only, Minister, that the cost of this delay of almost two and a half years will be borne by the citizens who do not see work and, of course, by the municipalities themselves. Instead of taking advantage of the "PHILITIMOS" programme, you deceived it. A program that the municipalities and local communities know has given small municipalities a chance to quickly integrate and carry out vital projects for local communities. You, this advantage, a moment ago, canceled it, saying that it only strengthens the small municipalities. But that's exactly what self-government needs today. At the end of 2019, you left the contract with the European Investment Bank and the Deposit and Loan Fund and came after almost two years to sign the same contract, which essentially recognises the importance and value of "PHILOU". So I am telling you very sincerely that the responsibility for this great delay in the integration of projects is entirely yours, the government, I mean, not personally. I say this, Minister, because for the new financial instrument - in fact you have copyed the 'Philodimo' - you are actually making an assumption. What's the admission? You say it has more powerful resources. I ask you, why did you exclude the possibility of reaching the limit of 2 billion? And why, with such certainty, you consider, after two and a half years of delays, that the projects will be integrated and that the level of this programme with a higher budget will be covered by you. One more thing, Minister. We are concerned that the criteria that you have set for the integration of projects, in addition to those which I have put to you, you are denying them. Not to be integrated, not to take into account the projects already implemented by the "PHILDIMO". Beyond this issue that I have raised to you, there is also concern, the risk of reviving customers rationally. Fortunately, there are no mayors available today for this. I say this because the new HR which you signed exceptionally gives you the possibility, Minister, to incorporate specific projects. So I would say that you do not go any further in the right direction, but give a horizontal solution so that all the projects that you removed from the wall, which were integrated and implemented by the Philosophy programme, will be able to obtain additional resources, especially the small, especially the region, so that projects can be completed, which the citizens so need in local communities too. The local economy needs jobs and local development. I expect you to give me an answer, Minister. I will specifically insist on the municipalities of Rhodope, what a timetable you have for the integration of projects. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Petchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, two or three basic things. The numbers don't lie, Mr. Haritou. You say that we should have the financial envelope of "PHILOS" at EUR 2 billion. But, I say, the Antonis Tritsis programme, which includes the "Philodimos" programme, has reached EUR 3,45 billion. I guess you don't want us to limit the file to 2 billion. We will not do this because we have already reached 2.7 billion euros in the last seven or eight months and we have reached 2.7 billion euros. 2.7 billion is more than 2 billion, Mr Haritou! We can't go back, we'll go forward. And we do everything we can to incorporate as many projects as we can. You also said about customer logic. What are the clienteles logics? The Municipality of Komotini has submitted a programme, emblematic, for water supply of 17m euros. This, if assessed by the services of the Ministry of Interior and passed by the Evaluation Committee - which you know is independent and which the CSCE and HSPE are involved - should not be the political leadership weighing it aside if it can be done. What should he say? That, because it is emblematic and is EUR 17 million, will the Municipality of Komotini take this project alone and none of the others, which may relate to the issues of the management of digital transformation waste, the issues of rural road construction, issues relating to electromotion and in general the green footprint of the region? Oh, no! We are, in fact, trying to ensure that we have a much wider financial dossier, but also with much more needs, to do our best to incorporate projects that help local society get ahead. As regards the issues you raise about the projects of the rest of the municipalities in the region, I cannot prejudge the evaluation of the dossiers - I told you that they are more than three thousand applications with blocking dossiers - nor the recommendation of the Evaluation Committee. So when we have good works, we are happy to announce them or at the request of you or deposit documents or even to inform you at any time of the services of the Ministry of Interior. To close, Madam President, this financial instrument, Antonis Tritsis, really can transform local societies in combination with the other financial instruments we have, which is a large NSRF and for the first time the Recovery Fund. And with the synergies that we have developed - and with the joint ministerial decision you mentioned, Mr Haritou, it seems clear - we can also leverage money with these tools so that the dossier we have finally become much longer and, as I believe, it will exceed EUR 4 billion by the end of March, as you have asked me to inform you of the timetable for the inclusion of projects. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too, Minister. The second question under number 231/11-10-2021 is the question of the cycle of petitions - questions, of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'To correct the unacceptable provision that the earthquake owners of many buildings are entitled to state aid, only for one of them'. The State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Karayannis. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are well aware of the catastrophic consequences of the earthquake in the wider region of Minoa Pediadas and Arhannes - Asterousia, but also within the boundaries of the neighbouring municipalities. I will not raise questions today about people who have not yet been restored to temporary residence. They are still hospitable with their children or friends and relatives, and there are huge problems even by the state's demand to pay electricity to the housekeepers. However, I am going to refer to economic and social reconstruction, to housing reconstruction, which has unfortunately eroded. One comment and one suggestion, in my view, is that the government should decide and appoint a body as coordinator of all the actions of all the other parties involved whether it is a municipality, be it a region, be it a state official or the Ministry of Infrastructure itself, but be in coordination. Today that's not there. Everyone does what they think and all together don't plan. I come to the specific issue of housing reconstruction. The first joint Ministerial Decision that came out provided that a building could be included in the AROGY programme and in its first aid and recovery without any limit. We raised the question that it is not possible for a owner who has a home and a shop to enter only one of the two of the aid. The decision was modified within a few days and what did it do? He also set a square limit, not only did he not make it easier for the owner of his homes and shops that have been affected by both, but also set a square limit. That's how it became more unfavourable. For some categories in a store owner of a hundred and twenty square square and eighty square stores, which are all two hundred together, it is no longer complete because only a hundred and fifty sq. sq. m. will be integrated. Many shops go beyond this limit along with their storage areas and this is an obstacle. So what we ask is the hundred and fifty squares that you decided to apply to the category of homes, homes and to the category of stores separately. That would be a fair decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr Kegeroglou, you are giving me the opportunity once again for the issues of Arkalochori and the wider area affected by the earthquake to inform the House and the National Representation of the Government's actions on how we dealt with the consequences of this catastrophic earthquake in Crete. Although we have answered you and in writing, I think it is important that we discuss more extensively what the government has done, what it has done just after the phenomenon has emerged. Mr Kegeroglu, you know better, I think, than anyone that the entire state mechanism has been mobilised immediately, with the main concern of relief for the affected, the immediate cover of housing needs and the restoration of damage. Every goodwill will agree that our reaction was immediate, substantial, coordinated and effective. We directly gave a hundred and twenty - four houses for the housing needs of seismopaths. You are well aware that ninety-nine were made available to the Municipality of Minoa - Pediadous, twenty-two in the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousia and three in the Municipality of Heraklion. Indeed, it is also your proposal, which you have put forward here in Parliament, to make a new provision of more than 90 houses, to cover all the needs that still exist. For the purposes of temporarily covering the accommodation of school complexes, you know very well that building infrastructure already has a hundred school rooms. At the same time, we immediately repaired the four major school complexes that existed, those that needed small repairs, so that they could restart and the children are already in their schools. At the same time, at the initiative of Minister Kostas Karamanlis, the TECF of Heraklion was established for the better service of the citizens and the coordination of the actions of the Ministry and the process of staffing is already under way with thirty mainly engineers. As you quite rightly said, within a week of the issue of the first KYA delimitation and grant of the housing aid, we proceeded to amend it, in order to include new elements that have arisen, but to do something that was first done: free state aid for the reconstruction or repair of all the properties that a earthquake has in its possession, up to a hundred and fifty square feet in total. For owners now who have been in possession of losses that have been damaged and more than 50 square square feet in total, a interest-free loan for their repair is provided for the remaining ones, as has been the case for many decades and this has been the case for the first time. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. However, I would like to give you another element, that to date the total amount allocated to state aid to the earthquakes in Crete through the arogi.gov.gr platform amounts to EUR 40.981.118 and concerns six thousand six hundred seventy beneficiaries. In other words, within less than four months, the state has allocated almost 41,000, Mr Kegeroglu, to the inhabitants of Crete affected by this earthquake. This is because you are an experienced parliamentarian, you know that it has not been done in such a short time and that you must credit it to the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. For the rest, I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you too, Minister, for confirming with the information you have given that a large proportion of the homeless are served by friends, relatives, children or situations which are inconsistent with modern times and the need to have a decent standard of living. Of the six thousand six hundred seventy buildings you have financed, there are more than a thousand people who are completely homeless. And you have spoken of a hundred and fifty houses that you have made available, and you will make available even ninety. Didn't the rest of you think about what they're doing, how they're living, how they're going through and how they're surviving this period? I come to the question of housing reconstruction. First of all, the platform has been closed for some time, without the possibility of applying for and it must be opened immediately and for a sufficient period in order to make corrections and to submit new applications. The problem that you had to fix on 6 October, when you amended it, unfortunately you have made it worse. While there was no plaque until then, you put a plaque. Uh, no, that's not a success. So you should see not the wall again because it was set, I understand that you cannot, firstly, take it back and, secondly, there must be a wall and a limit logical for these cases, but not horizontal and relate to the sum of houses and shops. So you have the man to choose, or he'll make his house live and stay at the store, so from now on he'll live without income, or build the store and have no place to stay. You can't do that. If, therefore, you have chosen that the state's support for one of the two should be undone, you should give a public guarantee. Give a public guarantee! No one is going to get an interest-free loan, no-one! - who has a shop that has been destroyed, that doesn't work and you tell him "Take an interest-free loan!" What bank will he give him? Give a public guarantee for all the problem that a man has to face and not limited to 20%! If 20% would make things easier, would I honestly come and put the matter here today? So look at these thoughts and the problems that exist so that we really have an integrated approach to the problems, which are many. The first impressions and the first actions were not followed up, Minister. Then there's been a valance. You said yourself that while the establishment of the office was decided, it has not yet been staffed. But it's close to six months now, five months. So these are issues that you need to see, and all right, you gave an answer. However, because the answer is not satisfactory and not because it is typically late, and of course, it will come back to Parliament again. That's why you come here today and we're talking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Kegeroglou, every government has to manage the public finances as wisely as possible, not only by responsibility to the Greek taxpayers, but also for the generations that come. I have to make a few remarks on everything you mentioned. First of all, the state was next to the first moment. There was no homeless person, we arranged for them to go directly to hotels, either in houses or in houses. You were there, too, when the Prime Minister himself came and we made sure no one stayed out. And we've taken care of that from the start. And that is why the actions we take from both the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and from the entire government are aimed at this very point. And I must refer to something else, Mr Kegeroglu. I have looked for in the Minutes of this House and I have not been able to find any legislative initiative - even in your days as a government - that changes this legal framework. Since 1979, the limit of 50 square feet has never changed since. And you know, it's not only if it's refreshing, but if it also constitutes discrimination. Do you want me to mention what has happened to the earthquakes in Lefkada, Kefalonia, the earthquake in Elia in 2017, in Lesvos, in Trikala and in Karditsa? Contrary to the past, for the first time, we have now introduced state aid up to 50 square feet, independently - and that is what is important, Mr Kegeroglu - if 50 square square metres concern more than one property. We abolished this restriction, which - I think - both your question and the others were granted and anticipated to grant interest-free loans. And, of course, it's with the Greek government's guarantee. The state was there the first time. Do you want to remember how quickly the CFO came out with the co-responsible ministries, which predicted the granting of one-off exceptional financial assistance of EUR 14 000, 8 000, or EUR 3 000 respectively for each type of building plant, as first aid for housing aid? And I would like to say at this point, since you have referred to both businesses and shops, that damages not related to building facilities, but to assets such as equipment, raw materials, goods, are also part of state aid and are entitled to compensation. And you can be certain that, as the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis achieves growth in economic activity, both the potential of the state will grow, and the possibility of widening social benefits to such phenomena. We've been next door for the first time, and we'll stay next to the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. We move to the second with number 316/17-1-2022, a top-level question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on “Protecting the rights of workers at “Petrelaea Kavalas”. Cancellation of dismissals and suspension of sues and disciplinary proceedings", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, 'ENERGEAN OIL' exploits Prenos' deposits. Under the pretext of unfavourable economic conditions, the restructuring programme is going ahead with the aim of reducing the so-called 'working costs', seeking to compress even further the remaining rights of workers. That is why he sought to proceed with redundancies that he baptized "favourable resignations", with a proclaimed aim of replacing older and experienced skilled workers with new flexible and cheap ones. The reason is for a company that the Parliament recently approved the loan with EUR 90.5 million and a reduced guarantee loan of EUR 9.5 million from the Greek state in agreement with the European Union. Workers have been giving their own struggle over the past few months and are opposed to the Prenos's contraction plan, as I have rightly described the company's infamous restructuring plan. The company stepped up its attack by imposing a program of available resources in December, firing two employees, forging lawsuits, disciplinary charges, extortion. Even the MATs were originally returned on December 9th, when they were prevented from interfering and finally on December 21st we witnessed an unprecedented invasion of MATs and other police forces in land oil facilities, intervention that endangered the lives of the workers and the security of the region. After all this, and in the new year he continued to send personal extortion letters calling on workers to be cut off from their club, to stop their mobilisations and claims, and on the 11th of January he proceeded to another twenty-four redundancies, including the entire association's Board of Directors by using the law - an abortion of Hatzidakis, which converts the workplace into the work spaces of the French employer's immunity and autocracy with government support. The attack on workers at "Presella Kavalas" is challenging. It is unprecedented over the last few decades to dismiss an entire trade union. It is a direct shot against the struggles of the working class and the right to trade union and action in the blood. You ask, Minister, firstly, what the government intends to do to cancel these redundancies and stop suing and disciplinary charges, stop all forms of terrorism and State repression, and, secondly, what are you going to do to ensure the safe operation of the plant without any harmful change in the working conditions of the workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Mr Stoltides, our country has a strong framework of legislation on the protection of workers. The Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs pay particular attention to labour issues by developing initiatives and actions both at legislative and audit level. First of all, I would like to describe the main points of our institutional framework relating to workers' redundancies, and then I would like to quote the figures on the subject of your question, according to the information I received from the APRC. Under our institutional framework, the termination of the contract of employment indefinitely constitutes the right of both the employer and the employee, and is subject to the limitation of Article 281 of the Civil Code, namely that the limits imposed by good faith or good morals or the social or economic purpose of the right are not exceeded. Exceeding these limits shall invalidate the complaint in accordance with Articles 174 and 180 of the Civil Code. When such an overrun exists the court judges and not the Ministry of Labour on the basis of the facts and circumstances of each particular case. GUMA On the basis of Article 66 of the newly adopted Law No 4808/2021, which, on the one hand, has codified existing legislation and, on the other hand, has increased the protection of workers, the following applies: the termination of the contract of conditional employment of indefinite duration by the employer is void, since either, firstly, it is due to discrimination against the worker or to sex, race, colour, political or philosophical beliefs, religious achievements, ethnic or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, age, identity or characteristics of sex, disability or - and I stress this - or not in a trade union organisation. Secondly, it runs counter to another special provision of law, as - and I stress this again - when it comes to the dismissal of trade unions, where there is no great reason, as defined in Article 14 of Law 1264/1982. Thirdly, it is a reaction - I stress this too - to exercising the legitimate right of the worker, such as the trade union. The addition of the reaction to the exercise of a legitimate right as a reason for making redundancies invalid, with the burden of compensation being transferred by the worker to the employer, offers more extensive protection for workers than was possible to recognise the nullity of a redundancy under the existing legislation. Therefore, our integrated institutional framework and our control mechanisms are structured on solid foundations to ensure workers' rights. Now, with regard to the issue you raise in your question, on the basis of the information I received from the APRC, the facts are as follows: Firstly, the competent department of the Kavala Labour Relations Inspectorate received a complaint from two employees of the “Energean Oil & Gas – Energy Aegean” for void and abusive dismissal and carried out a work dispute on 10-12-2021, but without the possibility of resolving the dispute. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I'm going to need some time from my dentistry. The two employees prosecuted the employer and, on 23-12-2021, the agency filed press reports to the Kavala Prosecutor's Office and the case is under way. On 2-12-2021, the same company submitted to the local agency a notice of the location of personnel at a availability of sixty-one employees from 3 December to 31 December 2021 on the grounds of the difficult economic situation, due to the cessation of the production process, calling on the employees to consult through the Operational Association of Kavala, Kavala Oil A.E. 'Varelli'. The service carried out an audit on the type of worker's availability, and so far no complaints have been filed by workers on this issue. On 24-12-2021 a hundred and ninety-seven workers have notified the service of the external documents of their employment towards the employer, in which they declare that they will refrain from working until the company has complied with and the necessary safety and health measures are taken, and in particular until the safety of land and marine facilities in Prino, where the workers have declared that the relevant safety measures are not complied with at risk of their lives. On 30-12-2021, the company submitted an extrajudicial statement to the service to a hundred ninety-nine workers, stating that the employment prevalence is illegal and abusive, and called on the workers to come to their work. At the same time, the company stated that, in its assessment, workers' energy is simply pretext. On 11-1-2022, the company re-issued an extrajudicial declaration to a hundred ninety-nine employees stating that the employees held the plant illegally by preventing the management of the company from entering it. In addition, he called on workers to return to their jobs. It has, and I have taken a lot of time, but I will come back to them in my dentistry and say exactly what can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, we asked you what you would do to cancel the redundancies and not what you would do to get them ratified by using the law - an abortion of Hatzidakis, because that is it. Even in the case of justice by the courts, it is possible that the employer - you know it very well - does not respect the re-entry. He doesn't have that kind of obligation. But this is here, Minister - I am returning to the issue - a company with enormous profitability, which has spread to many parts of the world, especially now that the price of oil has been expelled, a company that has borrowed it with EUR 100 million with our people's money and which has immediately exploited them to lay off all workers with an elementary decent wage and turn them into contractors, paid with the lowest and without a trace of labour rights. Workers fairly and courageously resist their return to slavery and the Middle Ages, fight for the level of living of the people in the region as a whole and for their safety from the possibility of an industrial accident. It's an area, Minister, flooded by energy sources around and around, what gas pipelines, what oil, what LNG and others. Nevertheless, it is the region with the greatest energy poverty in Greece. It is this development that is fair, growth for all you and SYRIZA say. And while you took health with them with the pandemic, while you extinguished their incomes accurately and on their attempt to maintain survival conditions for them and their families, how do you respond? With MATs and trials. You sent MATs from every corner of Greece for two hundred workers, to beat them, to arrest them, to fear and accept their condemnation, impoverishment, and, as we said, into land-based oil facilities, putting everyone in mortal danger in the region. Minister, it seems here that in order to defend the profits of a handful of big shareholders, social parasites in the economy, you are capable - as a government, I mean, as a political staff - of everything, you are ruthless. You are fighting with SYRIZA for the minimum wage when you have agreed to the crash of the average wage. You've activated the Hatzidakis abortion, to cut off any head that gets up and claim, you've let the entire board get fired, but you see, the fears don't work on the workers. The workers of 'COSCO' and 'e FOOD' who sent the law to the rubbish. Experimental employers have also been fired on the safety of installations, Minister. They are denounced today by the workers that fires are not working for the burning of hazardous gases and need immediate control. But the Ministry's Hydrocarbons Directorate raised serious safety issues in the facilities. And we ask: what are you going to do about all this? However, the reverse measurement of the response of the people of the region to this shameful policy that wants workers and obedients to the conditions of their impoverishment has begun. Thirty bodies have decided, clubs, associations in the region are calling for the protection of workers and their rights. To the obvious conclusion, however, that the state is in the hands of employers, that it works for this low minority, for their own pockets, workers must clearly see that they can, they have the power to cancel these plans and see the other, clearly, that the final solution is to take the state into their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u25	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Stoltides, first of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Labour does not hire or dismiss private sector workers. The legal procedure for the legal dismissal and the measures to protect and react to your workers has been described in detail in my prototype and we will respond to them here. To summarise what I said in my prototype, the facts are as follows: Starting of December the company submitted to the local agency a notification of the location of staff at a hundred and sixty employees. On 24 December the employees notified the service of an out-of-court declaration of employment to the employer, in which they declared their absence from work until the undertaking took the necessary safety and health measures and replied by means of an extrajudicial declaration of pretext and abusive action, and there was also the occupation of the facilities by the workers and a new out-of-court declaration by the company. That's what you're saying in your question. However, the local agency, after auditing the information system, found that on 17-01-2022 the company fired twenty-four employees. This is the so-called'minor complaint', i.e. a complaint of an indefinite contract of employment without notice. In fact, the dismissal and trade union officials were found among those who were fired. The APRC is closely following the case and will carry out a review of the legality of these redundancies under the collective redundancies law and trade union law. Mr. Stoltides, the last incident just took place four days ago, and the APR has already been considering it. The Minister must neither intervene nor be able to do so, and it would also be ex-institutional and extremely problematic. So what are we doing out there? We are awaiting the results of the APRC audit. By the way, you will allow me here - and I will close with this - to point out that the upgrading and strengthening of the role of the Labour Inspectorate was done by converting it with Law 4808/2021 into an Independent Administrative Authority. Just a month ago, on December 21st, the House's Committee on Institutions and Transparency adopted the five members of the board of directors of the new independent authority, and two days ago a competition was opened for the post of governor. The Labour Inspectorate will have operational independence and administrative and financial autonomy in accordance with the standards of the ADI and the National Transparency Authority. Our aim is to carry out its work without political controls and interventions in order to upgrade its crucial role in respect of labour legislation with accelerating procedures, providing even greater protection for workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. The first question will be discussed under number 321/17-1-2022 of the First Cycle of the Hercules MP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Application of 317/20 of the Court of Auditors' decision on the equalisation of age limits between men and women with minors and up to 31/12/2010 children'. Mr Tsakloglu will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou in his timely question. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Madam President. As you know, Minister, in 2009 the European Court of Justice held that the different treatment of the sexes in public as regards retirement age and the minimum prerequisites for the service is contrary to Union law. The Greek State came with a government decision in 2010 to equate these limits with Law 3865 for the State, but this equation had a starting date from 2011 onwards. Public security was brought to justice and by a decision of the Court of Auditors of 317/20, a civil servant - who appealed - had twenty-five years of insurance and a minor child in 2010, who asked to retire under the same conditions as the women's law. According to the Court of Auditors' decision, the different treatment of men and women as regards their retirement age is also contrary to the principle of equal pay, which is enshrined in Union law over time and which prohibits discrimination based on sex. So the Court of Auditors has adapted to the considerations of the European Court of Justice and what we are asking for is this decision for 2010 - because since 2011 it has been valid - to apply universally to all those who have the same conditions, namely a minor child, in order to retire under the same conditions, as provided for by Law 3865 and, more generally, by European and national law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Kegeroglu, your timely question highlights, on the one hand, the question of equality between men and women - in this case, in terms of retirement age limits - and, on the other hand, the question of favourable pension provisions in the case of parents with minor children. The government has repeatedly demonstrated that the issues of equality between men and women are particularly high in its priorities. Gender equality is one of the most important modern challenges for our society, and I think it is a duty for all of us to implement it in practice and ensure that it is respected. The practical safeguarding of gender equality obviously also concerns matters of an insurance nature. At this point I think we agree that early retirement was a measure of a social nature, but with very important side effects and consequences for our insurance system. For example, early retirement did not have any connection to pension compensation, while at the same time leading to the exit from the labour market of women who were most productive. At the same time, early retirement, precisely because it concerned women, led to increasing inequality of pension benefits between men and women. At this point I would like to insist. While the measure of early retirement for mothers with a minor child appeared to be favourable to working mothers, in practice it was acting as a mechanism for extending the family differences in the labour market and, by extension, in the area of pensions. Other measures were necessary to reduce the inequality of men and women in the labour market. From broadening the network of nurseries to extending parental leave to both men and women. Fortunately, our country has moved decisively in this direction in recent years. At the same time, the budgetary footprint of the early retirement regulation was heavy and particularly negative for the budget and the social security system. By 2010, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil and Military Pensions, it was possible to retire for women employees of minors by completing twenty-five years of actual pension and fifty years of age. However, there was no provision for men, except where they were either widowed or divorced and were curated by the children of minors by a court decision. These provisions, as you have said, were judged by the Court of Justice of the European Union to be contrary to the principle of equality, so that national legislation is adapted to that judgment. Thus, Law 3865/2010 was introduced with the provisions of which the possibility for men and women to retire with the same age limit as for women's children's mothers. Greece has thus complied with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the equalisation of the retirement ages of men and women as well as Directive 54/2006 of the European Communities which prohibits discrimination between sexes for equal pay or work of this value. Retirement is also a reward. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In recent years, however, important steps have been taken to close the gap between men and women and at the same time to promote and ensure the sustainability of our insurance system. I've been through my time again. In my dentistry, I will specifically address the issue of age limits and how they are now being shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u30	Me too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u31	If it were, Minister, to discuss more widely the issue of equality, I would obviously have another content in my question. Many of the issues that have evolved in our country over the past decades. But here we have something specific. Unfortunately, it's not just you. All the ministers, when we have specific questions and you have to give concrete answers, after you have developed a great rationale in your theory, you leave any answer to the dentistry to make substantial dialogue. I am not saying that it is appropriate, in any case, to do so when there are no clear answers, when there are no clear positions or when the Member does not want to really make his own position, his own comment with the right of denial given to him by the Rules of Procedure. That's more than that. It's not just about you. All the ministers are doing the same in parliamentary control. The question therefore remains. Can I criticise what you said in general on equality? Here we have a specific issue concerning the equation, the equal treatment of men in the case of L.3865, which complied with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, but did not include it in 2010. We have a decision of the supreme body concerned with the public which is the Court of Auditors. The supreme body of justice tells us what? As for 2010 you will have to apply the law that has been in force since 2011. More generally, the unification of all of us in the ECA says that it should be in the context of the administration's obligation to comply with the judgments of the Supreme Court in this respect and thus apply in general and regardless of the relationship between what the European Commission, the European Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors say. Everyone says it except the government, at least so far. We're waiting for your answer. I would therefore like a clear response to that by saying that equality issues, as seen by this particular issue, do not always apply. On the presumption that equality between women and those applying to men is valid, or at least that is the case. But there are other cases. It doesn't matter. We have to look at this as a distinction on a specific issue, which needs to be corrected. I look forward to your positive response, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kegeroglu, for the point of order you have mentioned, the various questions are not put in empty air. It's in a particular context. These reflect a particular view. I think the respondent should present this view at a time. And that's what I think we're doing. And that's right. For this reason: The provisions of Law 3865/2010 and amendments of Laws 2064/2012 and 4336/2015 established transitional age limits, which depend on the year of the entitlement to retirement for those with a minor child. These limits are now common to men and women. Moreover, for those who established a pension entitlement from 1-1 to 2013, the more favourable pension treatment of men and women with a minor child has been stopped in relation to the rest of the employees. Now the retirement age limit is uniform at sixty-seven years. The only exception to this limit is men and women who have a child unmarried and incapable of exercising every biopolitic profession - I know that this condition may not be a cadet, but this is what our legislation uses - 67% or more. With regard to the Court of Auditors' decisions, in fact, decisions have been adopted which justify male parents of minors who have established a pension right until 31-12-2010 under the same conditions as women's officials, i.e. the fifty-year-old and twenty-five years of insurance. According to the same decisions, however, they concern only the parties and do not constitute a commitment to general application for e-ECA. After all, as I said before, the general direction was to abolish the favourable early retirement provisions which were excessively burdening the budget, and that is why the progressive alignment of the age limits of workers with a minor child was chosen with the overall age limit. We must also make it clear that, obviously, these favourable provisions could not apply to applications for retirement which have been submitted since the abolition of the provisions. In conclusion, I would like to point out that all interventions in the insurance system, whatever its aspect, should be done on the basis of ensuring and strengthening the viability of the system. The insurance system was particularly tested during the years of the last decade's crisis, but major challenges such as demographic ageing, for example, remain not only but are increasing already. The current government's interventions in insurance over the last two and a half years, I think, have shown that the government has always aimed at a stronger insurance system, with higher pensions and better living conditions for workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Minister. We are now moving on to the last question that Mr Tsakloglu will answer, which is the third question under number 1632-12-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Support measures for all seasonally workers in duty-free shops'. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u35	Now, Minister, we have a question that doesn't need much of a visa, so I hope you can tell me the view of the Ministry in the theory. We have seen that in 2020 and 2021, due to pandemic, the equilibrium that existed in economic life before this pandemic that hit our place and not just our place but Europe and the world. This problem, with the right of workers to benefit from regular unemployment, since the company is considered to be seasonal, has arisen because there has been a fall in working hours during the summer and winter seasons, the percentage that should be below 25%, was not in order to be able to obtain this subsidy. On the occasion of the duty-free shops - but there are some other businesses, probably, having the same problem - we had the GFCM communication that raised this issue and we also have the workers' protest, which are not part of the regular unemployment benefit because of this problem. There is, in other words, a condition that workers should be this percentage in the rest of the whole of the workforce, and that percentage exceeds it, so the company or it should lay off and have even less in winter or retrospectively increased the workers for the summer. That is not the case, so we are asking for the regulation of the matter, or for a decision or a regulation, which enables workers who do not work in the winter period to be beneficiaries of the regular unemployment benefit and not just seasonal, limited and small seasonal allowance. It is an injustice which is extremely important and is found in workers in particular who have such specific characteristics in relation to employment and tourism, as has been shaped in abnormal conditions over the last two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u36	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, you will allow me again to begin with general. But I'm going to go to your specific question soon. On the occasion of your question, which concerns duty-free shops, I would first like to stress that, despite the extremely high public debt, the government's political interventions and actions are continuing unreservedly throughout the pandemic period, with the total amount already spent to date on dealing with the effects of the pandemic has already exceeded EUR 43 billion. In particular, with regard to workers' support and work protection, which is undoubtedly our number one target, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has made interventions totalling more than EUR 9 billion in 2020-2021. Of these, only for suspensions of contracts of employment have been paid to beneficiaries of EUR 3,3 billion, while to cover insurance contributions of around 2 billion. These are not small amounts. These are very serious amounts. And, in particular, they are not small amounts for a country which is in the fiscal situation in which Greece is situated. Support measures for workers and enterprises continue in 2022. A few days ago we announced a package of three additional support measures to deal with the economic impact of the coronary pandemic of EUR 80 million. The first support measure is the extension of temporary suspensions of workers with special purpose allowances for nightclubs, bars, halls and related professions, as well as for theatres, events and events and pedophiles. From 14 January to 31 January 2022, the possibility of suspending up to 25% of workers and at least one employee in a series of sectors such as focus, catering services, hotels, travel agencies, cinemas, conferences, gyms, sports training, dance schools, natural well-being, leisure parks, casinos and so on. The second measure is the Selected Branch Business Aid Programme that is seriously affected. To a large extent it is the branches that I mentioned earlier. A prerequisite for implementation is the reduction of the turnover between 2019 and 2020, i.e. before the pandemic and after 50%. Finally, the third support measure constitutes the suspension of payment of the January 2022 instalment of tax debts to the tax administration of the companies affected and of workers whose contract of employment is temporarily suspended. Now, in order to support seasonal employment, in the context of the Government's interventions on the financial support for seasonal workers, we have moved on during the pandemic to three successive actions. Firstly, the number of insurance days required for the unemployment allowance of all seasonal employees decreased from a hundred to fifty for the year 2020. Secondly, this arrangement was initially extended to the members of the tourism and food industry in 2021. Thirdly, this favourable regulation was then extended for 2021 and for seasonal workers in the canning industry, quarries and other professions linked to agriculture and the processing of agricultural products. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I will stop here and then go on with the specific timeliness and what are the definitions and why your own measure, as you say, has too much budgetary costs.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President. It wasn't a theory you told us. It was irrelevant, it was a different matter. The other issue is entitled 'What the government has made available for the pandemic as a whole'. That's what you told us. So the government has spent 44 billion in fact on the pandemic. It is within the first three countries of the European Union as a percentage of GDP, but in efficiency, the restoration of economic and social life is in the last three. So, from a quantity of money you gave, but from efficiency, you lost. And you didn't lose, but Greece lost, the Greeks lost, the Greek economy and society as a whole. Let's get to the point. The question is whether, within the framework, which existed over all the years of normality, in order to provide unemployment benefit for seasonal workers there was a disturbance. And if the people, who refer to the specific cases, are not covered in the duty-free shops. That's the problem, in particular. It's not a big financial cost, you're wrong. They didn't tell you right. I have to tell you that in 2013, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, then, Giannis Stournara, we amended the Memorandum of Work Law and established a separate regime for seasonal workers. What did we say? Those who work until September - October, since March, and make a certain number of wages, minimal and higher in seasonal work, are entitled to three and a half months in total, unemployment benefits in winter. This is the regulation, the specific one, which applies to seasonal workers. Those who do not have these conditions get a seasonal allowance, which is much smaller. So here they will receive a seasonal allowance, perhaps, but not all of them. The question is whether we have justice for workers, without discrimination. Here, then, they've done a hundred cuts. There was no need for this regulation to be reduced to fifty. They've done it. The company, however, “Exemptive Species Stores” during the summer season had fewer workers than in previous years and because it held a significant percentage of the workers for winter, because under a percentage cannot, in order to operate the shops in airports, ports and so on, have changed the percentage of employees in winter and is flying outside the workers, not the businesses. I am not asking for anything for business or enlargement. This is a specific problem in the duty-free shops. And because there have been regulations from the government, you have rightly said enlargement to the canning industry. VAT has been regulated in the duty-free shops, with a more general name, shops that are really under a special VAT regime. They operate under VAT arrangements at the entrance and exit gates of the country. It's specific business. It's her, I don't know if there's anyone else. But the workers are many, and they have not committed any offences to remove their unemployment benefit, because the company kept more workers in winter, you understand that. In fact, neither in the company can we force it to reduce the workers in winter to catch the limit that was before the pandemic nor, of course, to say 'change business, because this operation has this typical coma'. I think you can solve this. It is the company working on the duty-free regime with a special VAT system and with legislation it can be solved. It concerns three hundred workers or even a thousand. But if it were five thousand, the three-month seasonal allowance is the unreasonable financial cost? To God! Better to investigate the case and see it. I will be pleased if you say today - beyond a positive answer if you intend to say - that we will investigate this further. Otherwise, I don't think it's a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u41	For the most part, thank you, Madam President. Mr Kegeroglu, according to the legislation in force, an undertaking is characterised as seasonal because of the particular circumstances characterising the nature of the work provided. CALO There are two criteria: either the company operates from two to nine months a year or it operates throughout the year, but with peak and recession periods, and while in the periods of recession the staff on average does not exceed 25% of the average of the employee in peak periods, that is, what you mentioned earlier. I think we all realise that the change in the definition of a seasonal undertaking in the existing context, because that is, in fact, what you are asking for with your question, has serious financial implications. It is not something that can be done easily or certainly there can be a different definition for only one sector of economic activity or, much more, as you suggested at the end, for only one particular undertaking. I should like to point out that those who are unemployed do not comply with the seasonal provisions do not remain uncovered, simply not treated as seasonal, but as ordinary unemployed. To come in particular to workers in duty-free shops, the measure of suspension of contracts for employment has been in force for a very long time, from the beginning of the restrictive measures up to July 2021. Workers whose contracts of employment were suspended were qualifying for special purpose compensation on a pro rata basis of the days of suspension of contracts on the basis of a calculation of EUR 534, while for this period insurance contributions were paid on the nominal salary rather than on the basis of EUR 534. The aim of the government, as I have stressed many times since the Step of the House, is to support workers and unemployed people as much as possible, but always under budgetary constraints, and that is something we serve and prove in practice every day. Workers, unemployed and businesses will continue to accept and accept state support for as long as the crisis lasts. But, as we all know very well, the resources are not inexhaustible. Already as a result of economic support measures and the reduction of economic activity, the debt ratio for GDP in 2020 exceeded 200%, while the primary surpluses were converted into large deficits. However, as far as effectiveness is concerned, it is the completely opposite of what you mentioned here earlier. The recovery that Greece had in 2021 was one of the highest in the countries of the European Union, and the decline in unemployment was the largest in the European Union, if I am not mistaken. This recovery will continue over the next few years, as a result of both the current structural reforms and investment growth, with the assistance of both the recovery fund and the ESRB. But, in any case, our economy must soon return to the creation of primary surpluses. In this context, the prudent and good management of public resources is not without and, as I have said before, there is no uncovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break, because the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Aygeakis, will be delayed due to traffic.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We move on with our first question with number 317/17-1-2022 of the second time question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on "The devaluation of the sports facilities of the National Youth Sports Centre (ESAKN) of Agios Kosmas". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Eleftherios Ausgeakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I will begin with some observations. Unfortunately, St. Kosmas EAKN is another example of how the interests of business groups and the needs of the people in sport and physics do not fit in the same field. And I say this because you remember the ratification of the Greek contract for the surrender of the Greek to business interests and of Agios Kosmas, for you, the New Democracy, with SYRIZA and the Movement for Change of this criminal law. Also, for four years, you have been preparing the deportation of the facilities by deceiving them, so that we have the injuries of athletes. A athlete's injury is known when the lawyer's beams collapsed. Also known is the incident of Petrounia. Complaints are countless of athletes and coaches. The most dangerous of all is that your promise to find a new place of relocation of the sports centre cancels, suspends any project to strengthen the facilities, with everything that implies to the safety of the athletes. The promise of relocation should be accompanied by finding a new site, with an exact timetable, informing about what is to be done in the future. This situation rightly concerns workers, sports clubs making use of these spaces. Workers are in the air, given the non-renewal of the concession contract that existed in previous years with the public company. And while the transfer has been made to the private company, there is nothing to guarantee them. Insecurity also exists in sports clubs using the facilities, both closed and open spaces and seaboards, for maritime clubs, with all their equipment and vessels. At the same time, staff shortages need to be addressed, repairs and maintenances relating to the safety of the installations must be carried out. And for all this, of course, it takes brave financial support, work that will upgrade the center, so that safely athletes and athletes can train. This, of course, concerns above all high-level sportsmen, national athletes, who make use of the centre for their preparation and, of course, concern both the people and the young people of the region and the wider region visiting it. The various general relocation promises, which are supposed to be better, but without specifying exactly the part, the process, the status quo, are - let me express the expression - words of air, which have absolutely no impact. In fact, the unawares of the facilities by the investor are also added to the above. On the basis of these considerations, we would therefore like to ask you what measures you have taken or will take, so that, firstly, workers can be assured and the issue of the concession agreement is clarified, which has so far not been renewed, secondly, that the necessary funding is given and that the projects relating to the maintenance and repair of the installations are carried out and, thirdly, that workers are informed about the future of the installations and the relocations themselves, by providing them with all the necessary information on the process and timetable. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u45	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I should like to sincerely thank you for the timely question you have put to me and are discussing today the sports facilities of the National Sports Centre for the Youth of St. Kosmas. You give me the opportunity to inform you of the official step taken by the House, the plenary, of the planning and implementation of the demanding plan for the relocation of the sports facilities of Agios Cosmas. And I would like to correct the title of your timely question, my dear colleague, on payback. Not only do we despise these sports facilities, but on the occasion of relocation and modernise them, and some of them are being upgraded. Let me start with the question of workers, since you have put it - so - very dynamically. You have referred to workers' concerns and said that workers are in the air and so forth, unscrupulously beyond. But, well, don't you remember, dear colleague and friend Manolis, that about a year ago we were discussing this issue in this Chamber? Then I hadn't presented the fifth section of the then draft law, where I made provision for the staff of St. Cosmas Sports Center? As I said at the time, we fully guarantee - and then we voted it, that is - the workers in Agios Kosmas. The investment in Greek goes hand in hand, while at the same time we ensured the working rights of all - all! - of the workers employed by the legal person governed by public law "National Sports Centre for the Youth of St. Kosmas". In fact, workers' clubs, both the General Secretariat of Sports and the OAS, as well as Agios Cosmas, as well as the CVR and the Caucasogle, have all expressed their satisfaction not only for this regulation, but also because they see a leadership that is moving and, of course, listened to them. May I remind you what you voted for last September as a party in this Chamber? I am referring to Article 23 of Law 4726/2020, which states: From the final transfer of the premises and the abolition of the legal person governed by public law under the name 'National Sports Centre for the Youth of St. Cosmas', all workers in it in respect of work, whether public or private law, by way of derogation from any other general or special provision shall be transferred to the General Secretariat of Sports. They shall be converted into vacant organic posts of the corresponding class, branch or educational grade and specialty as they hold up to now. We also predicted that, if there are no corresponding positions in the General Secretariat of Sports, they will be transferred to positions corresponding to their formal qualifications by decision of the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. MARINE If there is no vacant organic position, they will, as I said before, be transferred by decision of the competent body and thus fully secured without any concern and without any problem. Lawyers serving in Agios Kosmas with a duty-paid relationship shall be transferred even by way of derogation from any other general or special provision to a body supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports after a decision of the competent body of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. They shall be transferred with the same relation, degree and salary step as they hold at the time of carriage either in an empty organic position or in a personal position set up by the same decision. In fact, we have laid down in the law that these decisions on workers are adopted within an exclusive period of one month from the final abolition of the legal person and, of course, their effects are referred to the date of abolition. Also, the period until the notification of the transfer and the taking-up of a staff service is considered - we have anticipated - as their actual service time to the host institution which pays and their corresponding remuneration for this period. In fact, this article, as I mentioned, has also voted for it and because you may not remember it, I put it in the Minutes and it is at your disposal. So, in cooperation with the workers' association and with the administration of Agios Cosmas, we have covered all possible and possible cases by fully guaranteeing all the work rights of the staff of Agios Kosmas. There is no concern then. There is no one on the "air". [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Synonymakis, you do not remember what you voted on a few months ago or you are trying to create impressions on matters that do not really exist. For the rest of the questions you asked, I'm going to answer my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u48	Minister, two arms had your answer. The question of the upgrading of the installations has been overtaken by saying that we "we do not deceive them, but upgrade them". They're all crazy, they're all fools in there putting the issue of a danger to athletes! There's a danger. Haven't you seen the incidents that have happened? What do you have to say about them? Sport facilities are an important part of the training of national teams. It is a attraction for the people of the southern suburbs and not just. In fact, throughout this region - Buliagmeni, Varkiza and go by saying - there are no bathing infrastructures. They've told you, they've been addressed to the Ministry, and it's a request. Proposals have been made. You have been offered proposals to use the beach volleyball, which has been abandoned since 2004 and is looted and you have done nothing about it at all. For the last 15 years, facilities have been used for training 15 national sports teams, as well as hundreds of people visiting it on weekends. What's the fate of the last fifteen years? It is not different from the other Olympic centers, from the other Olympic facilities. You know, of course, that the will, the view of the sports world, the people in general, is that of staying at sports facilities, upgrading and strengthening them, so that they can train, be sported as they really deserve our athletes, and that sports clubs and sports federations remain on the ground, without any relocation. It is worthy to tell you that you do nothing to repair and maintain the facilities of Agios Kosmas and you say that you upgrade them. So if a serious accident occurs - hit wood! - and we have the fatality, who's going to take responsibility? Aren't you going to take care of her? So these facilities, this space must be repaired and exploited from now on. We share the concerns of the sports world and stand by it. From there on, in relation to workers, there is firstly the question of lack of staff. I don't know if you've done anything about staff shortages. You've done absolutely nothing. Needs are much larger. That's not what you said. Secondly, there are the sports clubs that work too many employees. Did you say anything about them? Because they'll be deceived. So if they are deceived, what about these workers? And you say that they will be absorbed by the General Secretariat of Sports and some other cases that you have said. I shall read the text you have tabled in the Minutes from the debate. 'Wherever', you say, 'no other organic positions'. So if there are no other organic positions, what happens in this case? But here we are talking about a concession contract, which still does not exist. He's out of public responsibility. So the workers who were responsible for the State, and since the concession has not yet been awarded, are they not stirred? What answer do you give in relation to this? Or will the General Secretariat of Sport be absorbed in a monocodium? For all this, then, you have to give concrete answers. We are returning to the specific questions that we have put to protagonists. We are asking for a comprehensive answer. We keep a little basket in the various general promises. What promises? Well, you didn't say anything in the protology. Will he finally be relocated? When? What timeline? Where are they going? You're not making any of this clear. If there is no guarantee of the place where the facilities will be transferred, then when will they, by what procedure, go through what concessions, in our view there should be no demolition of the ECDC facility? In this respect, therefore, we, as a JRC, will fight with the workers, with the entire sports world, together with the clubs, so that they can claim self-evidently, that there are modern sports facilities to cover all the real sporting needs for the training of young people throughout the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr Syntagakis, in my prototype I referred to the workers and what you voted on. Didn't you know what you were voting for? If you do not know, I have tabled the Minutes, which includes the provisions that I described earlier, and you will be aware of what you have voted on, what you have agreed and what, if I have understood them correctly today, you are questioning it or, in any case, you do not know exactly what you say and speak in general terms. I am at your disposal, if you don't understand something, I'm happy to explain it to you in person. As far as the beach volleyball is concerned, because you have also referred to this, Mr Synthraki, please tell your partners to inform you properly. It doesn't belong to the Ministry of Sports. However, we have already initiated procedures, without it being our responsibility, without our responsibility, without San Cosmas, as you said earlier. We have already initiated procedures in the administration of Agios Cosmas, in cooperation with the district of Attica to seek the status of property, on which level it exists, where it is, at what stage it is, so that we can make use of it. Because yes, indeed, it is another Olympic facility that needs to be exploited. I am sorry, but after seventeen whole years, the total Olympic facilities take their course, with a lot of trouble and, of course, with completely different data several years ago. And we, our government, the government of Mr. Mitsotakis. So don't tell us about something that is not our responsibility, but we do, because we understand what it is. As far as the maintenance, upgrading and exploitation of the Olympic facilities are concerned, we are again telling you that it is a key pillar of our policy in general and specifically of Agios Kosmas. We are working together with the workers, not across the street, not with them elsewhere, and we have nothing to do with them. We are with the workers and we are working to make use of the Olympic facilities, such as the Olympic Village. You're getting away with it, but seventeen years it's been forgotten at the OAED. We and we took it and set up a legal person and have already started maintenance procedures and a programme of extremely important importance, which I am glad to hear from you in this Chamber. For the children of seventeen whole years, the house of Athenus, Volley's house, forgotten. We have completed the studies with the region and the municipality. In fact, we have completed our tender documents, too, Shhsto. Let's go to St. Kosmas. I've told you before, you don't listen to me, it's okay, we'll repeat it. It's fine, because it suits me to learn and listen to the one who hasn't heard our previous conversations. As far as Agios Kosmas is concerned, we have signed a memorandum of cooperation with LAMDA DEVELOPMENT for the transfer of sports facilities from Agios Kosmas to Greek. We predicted that we would not deliver any facilities, if we did not receive the corresponding installation in the area of Greek or if no other Olympic installation is exploited in compensatory terms, such as swimming pools, with the largest swimming complex in the OAS which is completed within a few weeks with funding from the LAMDA DEVELOPMENT and after close cooperation and a memorandum and agreement that we have signed with absolute transparency. At the same time, however, we are carrying out repair and maintenance of the sports facilities of Agios Kosmas for their excellent and safe operation. In summary, I mention the main work done for repair, maintenance and purchases of supply in Agios Kosmas: First, in central facilities after eighteen years, roofs and watercourses were repaired on the roofs of all the closed coaches, while at the same time the level of comfort for lighting was upgraded and we had a full replacement for lamps. Saunas were repaired after many years at the closed gym and the closed weightlift coach. Work has been done on the maintenance and repair of air conditioning units both in sports facilities and in the hostel complexes where athletes and athletes of national teams are hosted. At the same time, in order to train athletes in decent conditions, after eighteen years of abandonment, twenty-six wardrobe air conditioners were purchased and placed in the closed coachrooms and thirty-six split air conditioners in the hostel complex. Works were carried out to insulate the floors of the hostel complex, supply of solar water heaters and maintenance work. A consistent request was received from the athletes and sports hostels for free internet access at the hostel complex, as well as at the administration offices of the EAKN of Agios Kosmas. Work was carried out on the restoration of the platforms of the open track coach, the placement of a shadow on them, as well as the recolouring of the support areas of the sports facilities of Agios Kosmas. An artificial turf was placed on the football stadiums and a protective panel that hadn't existed for so many years. We had the supply of sports materials and exercise instruments, which were placed in closed coaches for use by athletes and athletes - for many years it was their request and no one had satisfied it to date. ARAPE We have the whole renovation on the open fireplace, maintenance work on the carpet, replacement of friends and learning wall. In the closed box coachery was replaced by the damaged part of the roof, a tent was placed that was requested by athletes and athletes and a total replacement of the wooden floor. The coaching centre has become operational to meet the increased needs of athletes and athletes of national boxing teams. Work has been carried out on replacement and repair of the flats in the closed weightlift. Work has been carried out on the maintenance of pipes, cleaning filters, and on the maintenance of the pumps and burners of the swimming pool, on the boiler room, on the outdoor tank and on the closed dive - and I refer to those that are working, on the one that operates firmly and in the second that has many years with problems and at times it works and is not working - both are closed. However, 12 bathing pools are completed by the ‘LAMDA DEVELOPMENT’ at the OECD. All maintenance work was carried out in the organs of the playground of the sporting centre which has been highly visited and the necessary steps were taken to obtain certification by an approved certification body. And we go to the closed pool of Piraeus "Petros Capagerov". There was a total replacement of the water circulation pipes, the swimming pool boiler and maintenance of the swimming pumps and burners after fifty years. As you heard, after fifty years! In December, the competitive process for the procurement of a scoreboard was launched and immediately thereafter, start-up frogs, a constant request from our national team. In the days, the supply of sports materials, anti-campaign swimming corridors, is completed. A meeting room was set up for athletes and coaches to meet the needs of national polo and swimming groups, as well as unions. Work on a study on the overall energy upgrade of the closed swimming pool began. And we are going lately to the seaport of Microlimanos - which belongs to Agios Kosmas - where we had programming work to maintain the building of the former ERRP, after the end of the renewal of the space from the Municipality of Piraeus. Mr Synthyriakis, the total cost of the last two years to maintain the facilities in Agios Kosmas exceeds 500,000 euros, and in this amount we do not calculate the costs of the tenders under way, where there is more than 500,000 euros spent on all these competitions. I have said this again and I say it once again from this Step: I am proud of the work that has been done on the maintenance and upgrading of sports infrastructure during our term of office, only thirty months. We received abandoned and very much destroyed facilities. We are, however, working for all workers, administrations, Ministry, officials of the Ministry to do our best in the least time we can, namely to deliver not only facilities belonging to us, but also facilities belonging to the municipalities and which, through the programmes, either the "PHILDIMOS II" or the "ITIS TRITS", in collaboration with the Ministry of the Interior, to fund as much facilities as possible in order to provide as secure, modern and accessible sports facilities as possible. And one last thing: Did you know that in Greece we did not know until first what facilities we have? I guess you knew, or if you didn't know, you didn't know. You should have asked your partners. And yet, the specific leadership of the Ministry we worked with the CEDEFOP, built the "Pelopos" platform and we have, about 80% more than an image of the facilities available to the municipalities in our country, beyond the facilities that we recorded in full analysis and which the Ministry of Sports has, which we did not have an accurate view of the facilities available to the Ministry of Sports, nor accessibility nor licenses, if any. Energy, etc. It was of secondary importance, as it appears, because there was nothing. We now have a full picture. A corresponding work, through the "Pleopa", also takes place in the facilities owned by the municipalities. We have already answered a question, at a previous year, in the House with information which is constantly being updated. We are at your disposal, if you wish, to come here, to submit a question and to submit to you all the information that comes through "Pelop" that is, what facilities we have, in what sport, in what state, in what old state, are accessible and which are not, which are energy upgraded. We acquire an amazing tool for both the Ministry of Sports and the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Environment, but also for all those involved in government I and II, because that is how we all know what we have, if we want to make a strategy for developing a sport, we will have a picture of the facilities and it will not work "They told me, they told you, they told him" or the degree of sympathy that a Minister can have with a municipality. No, we want to make real development and of course the elements of "Pleopa" will be accessible to everyone. Don't hurry to say it's my tool. You've said it about the record of amateur unions - you remember it - and you've pressed it, because the record of amateur unions has been embraced by all the healthy and housewives representatives of the unions. Then you doubted us. That's when you said some heavy talk. And yet, today, the healthy sports community welcomes it, is supported by the state and by financial support, and among others, the householders have given a speech and a role, and we welcome this and we are helping in every way to increase the number of regulated active amateur unions written in the register. Of course, I am at your disposal at any time, Mr President. At any time you ask again a question on any other matter, we are here to answer you, but also to those who are following us. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, there was probably a significant falsification on the part of the Minister. He filed the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u53	Mr Colleague, this is not allowed, you know that very well. But I'll give you the floor for a second, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u54	A question to the Minister, no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u55	All right, ask the Minister the question. I don't know if he wants to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u56	If the JRC voted in principle against the draft law or in addition to voting against the principle of the draft law, it also voted against the specific provision for the transfer of workers to the General Secretariat of Sports. Only one answer from the Minister for this. I repeat: the Minister's answer will determine whether or not this is falsification of my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u57	Minister, that's all you'll answer, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Synthraki, Art. 23 n.4726/2020. It has been voted on by the JRC. I am not saying at first, I am talking about this particular article. In fact, you have also expressed positively on the rehabilitation of workers. Take a closer look, please, at the Minutes of that period, what you said, what you had tabled and what you voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u59	But tell the truth, right? We voted for the workers' provision. We had voted against the draft law in principle. To vote against at first a draft law that is unsporting does not mean that there can be no agreement in individual articles. In this provision, the JRC voted, so do not falsify the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u60	Mrs. Sacorafa, I'm going to have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u61	Minister, we're closing with this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you for the time. Mr Colleagues, I was very clear. The JRC was written with this provision that fully restores the workers in Agios Kosmas. That's what I said in my prototype, that's what I repeat now. Where did you understand the mistake? You probably did not understand what you voted on now and you are trying to turn them around. You voted in favour of a provision whereby our state and government anticipated the full restoration of all employees, of all levels in whatever relationship, the next day that Saint Cosmas will evolve. We're clear. You also voted in favour of this provision. What didn't you understand? The ‘in principle’ or ‘for other provisions’; I specifically referred to Article 23 of Law 4726. The JRC was then drafted and you were in favor. Today you're telling us why we haven't predicted. You probably didn't understand what you voted for. However, it's okay, even with a year's delay, it's good that you understood it.
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u63	At first, you said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2022-01-21-S1-commons.u65	With the agreement of the House at 11.00 noon, the sitting on Monday, January 24, 2022, at 14:00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate with 7/4 29-12-2021 on the topical question of the parliamentary group of the Movement of Change to the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Environment and Energy, Rural Development and Food, on the subject of the "Full indulgence of the Government in the face of the "tsunami" of accuracy and shame" and b) the debate on topical questions.
